VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Resolution No., passed 3-25-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
OF
WEBBERVILLE, MICHIGAN
 
VILLAGE COUNCIL
VILLAGE PRESIDENT         Brad Hitchcock Sr.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT PRO-TEM Sam Schulte
                          
TRUSTEE                   Sandra Schoenborn
TRUSTEE                   Deborah Walter
TRUSTEE                   Lana Stanfield
 
 
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
VILLAGE ATTORNEY        Scott Gould
VILLAGE CLERK/TREASURER Jessica Kuch
VILLAGE DPW SUPERVISOR  Ryan Jones
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 207
(Enacted August 24, 2009)
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE;
PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING
FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
The Village of Webberville ordains:
Section 1. Short title.
This ordinance shall be known as the “Code of Ordinances adopting ordinance”
and may be so cited.
Section 2. Adoption of Code of Ordinances.
The code entitled “Village of Webberville, Michigan Code of Ordinances”
published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, consisting of Titles 1
through 15, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 3. Repealer.
All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before February
9, 2009, and not included in the code or recognized and continued in force by
reference therein, are repealed.
Section 4. Prior ordinances not revived.
The repeal provided for in Section 3 hereof shall not be construed to revive
any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance
that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 5. Penalty.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a
violation of any provision of the code or any ordinance, rule or regulation
adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 and/or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days in the discretion of
the court. However, unless otherwise provided by law, a person convicted of a
violation of this code which substantially corresponds to a violation of state
law that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93
days shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500, and costs of prosecution
or by imprisonment for a period of not more than 93 days or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any code section, whether or not such penalty is reenacted in
the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the
village may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive
relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 6. Code additions or amendments.
Additions or amendments to the code when passed in such form as to indicate the
intention of the Village Council to make the same a part of the code shall be
deemed to be incorporated in the code, so that reference to the code includes
the additions and amendments.
Section 7. Later ordinances.
Ordinances adopted after February 9, 2009, that amend or refer to ordinances
that have been codified in the code shall be construed as if they amend or
refer to like provisions of the code.
Section 8 - Effective date.
This ordinance shall become effective 30 days after publication in the manner
provided for by law.
Adopted at a regular meeting of the Village Council on the 24th day of August,
2009.
YEAS: Ackerman, Oliver, Leonard, Heaney, Lillywhite.
NAYS: None.
ABSENT: None.
I, Rachel Howd, Clerk of the Village of Webberville, do hereby certify that the
foregoing constitutes a true and complete copy of Ordinance No. 207 adopted by
the Council of the Village of Webberville, Ingham County, Michigan, August 24,
2009, and the same was published in the Fowlerville News and Views on August
31, 2009.
                                                                                                             
Rachel Howd                        John Leonard
Village Clerk                        Village President
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the "Webberville Village
Code."
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE.  The Webberville Village Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Ingham, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.8701 et seq., as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the Village of
Webberville, Michigan." Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer
of the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Village of Webberville and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Webberville, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of
Webberville.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, section,
or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and/or
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature;
and all the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and
effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. The ordinances
are on file in the Village Clerk's office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Webberville Village
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows: . . ." The new provisions shall
then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: "That the Webberville Village Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section
reads as follows: . . ." The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this subchapter," "this division," and the like, as the case
may be, or to "Sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, as amended, when the public servant has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has committed an offense in violation of a
village ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal;
   (D)   Fire Chief;
   (E)   Zoning Administrator; and
   (F)   Ordinance Officer.
(Ord. 221, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is
reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
         
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
         
32.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
         
33.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
         
34.   PERSONNEL
         
35.   FINANCE
         
36.   MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
         
37.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Number of Trustees; terms
   
30.02   Compensation of President and Trustees
   
30.03   Rules for proceedings before the Village Council
Cross-reference:
   Village Council appointment of Construction Board of Appeals, see §
151.20
§ 30.01 NUMBER OF TRUSTEES; TERMS.
   (A)   Reduction of number of Trustees on Council. As authorized by Public
Act 3 of 1895, Ch. II, § 2, being M.C.L.A. §§ 62.1 et seq., as amended, the
number of Trustees on the Village Council shall be reduced from six Trustees to
four Trustees who, with the President, shall constitute the Council.
   (B)   Term of office. After the effective date of adoption of this section,
two Village Trustees shall be elected at each succeeding biennial village
election. This section shall not shorten the term of any incumbent Trustee. Nor
shall this section shorten or eliminate a prospective term unless the
nomination deadline for that term is not less than 30 days after the effective
date of this section.
   (C)   Effective date.
      (1)   This section shall take effect 45 days after the date of its
adoption, unless a petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered
electors of the village is filed with the Village Clerk or village office
within the 45 days.
      (2)   If a petition is filed within the period of time, this section
shall then take effect only upon its approval at the next general village or
special village election held on the question of whether the ordinance shall be
approved. Notice of any delayed effect of this section and the right of
petition under this section shall be published separately at the same time and
in the same manner as the ordinance or a notice of the ordinance is published
in a local newspaper of general circulation.
   (D)   Adoption. This section shall be adopted by an affirmative vote of at
least two-thirds of the members of the Village Council.
   (E)   Publication. The Village Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this
section and cause the same to be published as required by law.
(Ord. 200, passed 11-20-2007)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION OF PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The President of the village shall receive $100 for each regular or
special meeting of the Village Council attended, and $50 for each official
committee meeting attended.
   (B)   Each Trustee of the village shall receive $100 for each regular or
special meeting of the Village Council and $50 for each official committee
meeting attended.
   (C)   The President and Trustees may each receive reimbursement for any
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties upon approval of
any such claim by the Council.
   (D)   The compensation due under this section shall be paid quarterly
without the necessity of further approval by the Council. The committee chairs
shall record attendance at committee meetings and inform the Clerk via minute
distribution, which shall be conclusive as to the attendance of any official in
determining the compensation due.
   (E)   No other compensation for services performed for and on behalf of the
village shall be paid to the President or Trustees during their term of office,
unless provided for by Council action.
   (F)   This section shall take effect on 10-1-2006.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-20-2006; Ord. 218, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 30.03 RULES FOR PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 5, § 5, being M.C.L.A. §§ 65.1
et seq., all regular or special meetings of the Village Council shall be
conducted in strict accordance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of
the latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order.
   (B)   All proceedings brought before the Village Council by officers of the
Village, Council Trustees, the President, or members of the public shall be
done so pursuant to the provisions of the latest edition of Robert's Rules of
Order.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall procure a sufficient number of copies of
Robert's Rules of Order so that all members of the Village Council, the
President, officers of the village, and the public shall have a copy of the
latest edition.
   (D)   The Village Attorney shall be the Chief Parliamentarian in the
interpretation of the applicable provisions of Robert's Rules of Order.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall be the Sergeant at Arms and, when directed
by the President or Village Council, shall enforce the provisions of Robert's
Rules of Order insofar as the same may be applicable.
   (F)   This section shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 112, passed 3-7-1988)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elections
Village Clerk
   
31.15   Establishment of office
   
31.16   Term of office
   
31.17   Personnel policies
   
31.18   Effective date
   
31.19   Publication
Village Treasurer
   
31.30   Establishment of office
   
31.31   Term of office
   
31.32   Personnel policies
   
31.33   Effective date
   
31.34   Publication
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   All elections for village officials shall be nonpartisan.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall take effect with the first village election
for which the nomination deadline is not less than 30 days after the effective
date of this section.
   (C)   This section shall take effect 45 days after its adoption unless a
petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors of the village
is filed with the Village Clerk within the 45-day period, in which case this
section takes effect upon approval at an election held on the question.
   (D)   The Clerk shall cause to be published a notice of the adoption of this
section and the delayed effect as provided in division (C) above which shall be
published separately at the same time and the same manner as this section is
published.
   (E)   If a petition bearing the required number of valid signatures of the
electors is filed after verification by the Village Clerk, the question of
ordinance adoption shall be submitted at the next general or special election.
(Ord. 173, passed 4-1-2002)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   As authorized by Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. II, § 1(3), being M.C.L.A. §§
62.1 et seq., as amended, the Village Clerk shall be chosen by nomination by
the Village President and appointment by a majority vote of the Village
Council.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.16 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Any person appointed as Village Clerk under this subchapter shall have an
initial term of office commencing as of the date the person takes and
subscribes the oath of office and files it with the Village Clerk's office,
together with the filing of any bond required by law and shall serve until the
next Village Clerk is appointed.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.17 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The Village Clerk shall be subject to all personnel policies applicable to
employees of the village.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall take effect 45 days after the date of its
publication, unless a petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered
electors of the village is filed with the Village Clerk or Village Clerk's
office within the 45 days.
   (B)   If a petition is filed within the period of time, this subchapter
shall then take effect only upon its approval at the next general or special
village election held on the question of whether the ordinance shall be
approved. Notice of the delayed effect of this subchapter and the right of
petition under this section shall be published separately at the same time and
in the same manner as the ordinance or a notice of the ordinance is published
in a local newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.19 PUBLICATION.
   The Village Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this subchapter and cause
the same to be published by law.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-20-2004)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   As authorized by Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. II, § 1(3), being M.C.L.A. §§
62.1 et seq., as amended, the Village Treasurer shall be chosen by nomination
by the Village President and appointment by a majority vote of the Village
Council.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.31 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Any person appointed as Village Treasurer under this subchapter shall have
an initial term of office commencing as of the date the person takes and
subscribes the oath of office and files it with the Village Clerk, together
with the filing of any bond required by law and shall serve until the next
Village Treasurer is appointed.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.32 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The Village Treasurer shall be subject to all personnel policies applicable
to employees of the village.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.33 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall take effect 45 days after the date of its
publication, unless a petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered
electors of the village is filed with the Village Clerk or Village Clerk's
office within the 45 days.
   (B)   If a petition is filed within the period of time, this subchapter
shall then take effect only upon its approval at the next general or special
village election held on the question of whether the ordinance shall be
approved. Notice of the delayed effect of this subchapter and the right of
petition under this section shall be published separately at the same time and
in the same manner as the ordinance or a notice of the ordinance is published
in a local newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 31.34 PUBLICATION.
   The Village Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this subchapter and cause
the same to be published by law.
(Ord. 187, passed 9-20-2004)
CHAPTER 32: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Title
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Creation of Authority
   
32.04   Description of downtown district
   
32.05   Establishment of Governing Board
   
32.06   Board officers and personnel
   
32.07   Powers of the Board
   
32.08   Funds
   
32.09   Fiscal year; adoption of budget; financial reports
   
32.10   Termination of Authority
   
32.11   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Downtown Development
Authority Ordinance."
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as given to
them in Act 197, or as hereafter defined, provided unless the context clearly
indicates to the contrary. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACT 197. Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1681, as now in effect and hereafter amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Downtown Development Authority as created herein.
   BOARD. The governing body of the Authority.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated by this subchapter as
now existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.03 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created, pursuant to Act 197, a Downtown Development
Authority for the village. The Authority shall be a public body corporate and
shall be known and exercise its powers as the "Webberville Downtown Development
Authority."
   (B)   The Authority shall develop the plans necessary or appropriate which,
in the opinion of the Village Council, aid in the economic growth of the
district. Once the plans are approved by the Council, the Authority shall
implement any plans for development in the district necessary to achieve the
purpose determined by the village through its adoption of the plans and other
purposes as provided in Act 197.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.04 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The downtown district in which the Authority may exercise its power as
provided in Act 197 shall consist of all the area contained within the duly
established boundaries of the village as of 6-1-1999, including any land
brought in through annexation or any 425 Agreement executed prior to 6-1-1999,
even if the 425 Agreement was not filed with the Office of the Great Seal until
sometime thereafter.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982; Ord. 100, passed 6-3-1985; Ord. 182, passed 9-22-
2003; Ord. 196, passed 4-23-2007; Ord., passed 5-15-2018; Ord. 92-A, passed 3-
12-2019)
§ 32.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNING BOARD.
   (A)   Generally. The Authority shall be supervised and controlled by a Board
consisting of the President of the village and eight additional members, none
of whom may simultaneously be members of the Council. The members of the Board
shall be appointed by the Village President subject to the approval of the
Council. The members of the Board shall be persons owning or having an interest
in property located in the downtown development district. Each member shall
serve for a term of four years. A member shall hold office until a member's
successor is appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the
Village President and shall be for the unexpired term only. Members of the
Board shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for all actual and
necessary expenses. The chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the
members of the Board.
   (B)   Oath. Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by
taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
   (C)   Open Meetings Act; compliance; rules; special meetings. The business
which the Board may perform shall be conducted at a public meeting of the Board
held in compliance with Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261
through 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting shall
be given in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976. The Board shall
adopt rules consistent with Public Act 267 of 1976 governing its procedure and
the holding of regular meetings, subject to the approval of the Council.
Special meetings may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of
the Board.
   (D)   Removal of Board member for cause; judicial review. Pursuant to notice
and after having been given an opportunity to be heard, a member of the Board
may be removed for cause by the Council. Removal of a member is subject to
review by the Circuit Court.
   (E)   Expenses and financial records; open to public. All expense items of
the Authority shall be publicized monthly and the financial records shall be
open to the public.
   (F)   Freedom of Information Act; compliance. In addition to the items and
records prescribed in division (E) above, a writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of, or retained by the Board in the performance of an official
function shall be made available to the public in compliance with Public Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982; Ord. 184, passed 4-19-2004)
§ 32.06 BOARD OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Director; oath and bond; chief executive officer; powers and duties;
report; Acting Director. The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a
Director, subject to the approval of the Council. The Director shall serve at
the pleasure of the Board. A member of the Board is not eligible to hold the
position of Director. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the
Director shall take and subscribe to the constitutional oath, and furnish bond,
by posting a bond in the penal sum of $5,000 payable to the Authority for use
and benefit of the Authority, approved by the Board and filed with the Village
Clerk. The premium on the bond shall be deemed an operating expense of the
Authority, payable from funds available to the Authority for expenses of
operation. The Director shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority.
Subject to the approval of the Board, the Director shall supervise, and be
responsible for, the preparation of plans and the performance of the functions
of the Authority in the manner authorized by this subchapter and Act 197. The
Director shall attend the meetings of the Board, and shall render to the Board
and to the Council a regular report covering the activities and financial
condition of the Authority. If the Director is absent or disabled, the Board
may designate a qualified person as Acting Director to perform the duties of
the office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Acting
Director shall take and subscribe to the oath, and furnish bond, as required of
the Director. The Director shall furnish the Board with information or reports
governing the operation of the Authority as the Board requires.
   (B)   Treasurer; duties; bond. The Board may employ and fix the compensation
of a Treasurer, who shall keep the financial records of the Authority and who,
together with the Director, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of
funds of the Authority. The Treasurer shall perform any other duties as may be
delegated to him or her by the Board and shall furnish bond in an amount as
prescribed by the Board.
   (C)   Secretary; duties. The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a
Secretary, who shall maintain custody of the official seal and of records,
books, documents, or other papers not required to be maintained by the
Treasurer. The Secretary shall attend meetings of the Board and keep a record
of its proceedings, and shall perform any other duties delegated by the Board.
   (D)   Legal counsel; duties. The Board may retain legal counsel to advise
the Board in the proper performance of its duties. The legal counsel shall
represent the Authority in actions brought by or against the Authority.
   (E)   Other personnel. The Board may employ other personnel deemed necessary
by the Board.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.07 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may:
      (1)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the
downtown district.
      (2)    Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth upon the
downtown district.
      (3)   Plan and propose the construction, renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation, or reconstruction of a public
facility, an existing building, or a multiple-family dwelling unit which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in the economic growth of the downtown district.
      (4)    Plan, propose, and implement an improvement to a public facility
within the development area to comply with the barrier free design requirements
of the state construction code promulgated under the Stille-DeRossett-Hale
single state construction code act, 1972 PA 230, M.C.L. A. §§ 125.1501 to
125.1531.
      (5)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the agency which is
chiefly responsible for planning in the municipality, designed to halt the
deterioration of property values in the downtown district and to promote the
economic growth of the downtown district, and take such steps as may be
necessary to persuade property owners to implement the plans to the fullest
extent possible.
      (6)   Implement any plan of development in the downtown district
necessary to achieve the purposes of this act, in accordance with the powers of
the authority as granted by this act.
      (7)   Make and enter into contracts necessary or incidental to the
exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties.
      (8)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the authority considers proper or own, convey, or otherwise dispose of,
or lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or
rights or interests in property, which the authority determines is reasonably
necessary to achieve the purposes of this act, and to grant or acquire
licenses, easements, and options with respect to that property.
      (9)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair, and operate any building, including
multiple-family dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances to that
property, within the downtown district for the use, in whole or in part, of any
public or private person or corporation, or a combination of them.
      (10)   Fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for the use of
any building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents, and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the authority.
      (11)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part of a
building or property.
      (12)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor, or other things of
value from a public or private source.
      (13)   Acquire and construct public facilities.
      (14)   Create, operate, and fund marketing initiatives that benefit only
retail and general marketing of the downtown district.
      (15)   Contract for broadband service and wireless technology service in
the downtown district.
      (16)   Operate and perform all duties and exercise all responsibilities
described in this section in a qualified township if the qualified township has
entered into an agreement with the municipality under M.C.L.A. § 125.1653(7).
      (17)   Create, operate, and fund a loan program to fund improvements for
existing buildings located in a downtown district to make them marketable for
sale or lease. The Board may make loans with interest at a market rate or may
make loans with interest at a below market rate, as determined by the Board.
      (18)   Create, operate, and fund retail business incubators in the
downtown district.
   (B)   If it is the express determination of the Board to create, operate, or
fund a retail business incubator in the downtown district, the Board shall give
preference to tenants who will provide goods or services that are not available
or that are underserved in the downtown area. If the Board creates, operates,
or funds retail business incubators in the downtown district, the Board and
each tenant who leases space in a retail business incubator shall enter into a
written contract that includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   The lease or rental rate that may be below the fair market rate as
determined by the Board.
      (2)   The requirement that a tenant may lease space in the retail
business incubator for a period not to exceed 18 months.
      (3)   The terms of a joint operating plan with one or more other
businesses located in the downtown district.
      (4)   A copy of the business plan of the tenant that contains measurable
goals and objectives.
      (5)   The requirement that the tenant participate in basic management
classes, business seminars, or other business education programs offered by the
authority, the local chamber of commerce, local community colleges, or
institutions of higher education, as determined by the Board.
(M.C.L.A. § 125.1657)
§ 32.08 FUNDS.
   (A)   Sources. The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or
more of the following sources:
      (1)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions;
      (2)   Proceeds of a tax imposed pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 125.1662;
      (3)   Moneys borrowed and to be repaid as authorized by M.C.L.A. §§
125.1663 and 125.1663a;
      (4)   Revenues from any property, building, or facility owned, leased,
licensed, or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements;
      (5)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan, established under
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1664 to 125.1666; and/or
      (6)   Moneys obtained from other sources approved by the governing body
of the municipality.
   (B)   Deposit and payment of moneys. Moneys received by the Authority and
not covered under this section shall immediately be deposited to the credit of
the Authority, subject to disbursement pursuant to this subchapter. Except as
provided in this subchapter or in Act 197, the village shall not obligate
itself, nor shall it ever be obligated to pay any sums from public funds, other
than moneys received by the village pursuant to this section, for or on account
of the activities of the Authority.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.09 FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET; FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on April 1 of each year
and end on March 31 of the following year, or any other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The Board shall annually prepare a budget and submit it to the Council
on the same date that the proposed budget for the village is required to be
submitted to the Council. The Board shall not adopt a budget for any fiscal
year until the budget has been approved by the Council. The Board may, however,
temporarily adopt a budget in connection with the operation of any improvements
which have been financed by revenue bonds where required to do so by the
ordinance authorizing the revenue bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Council as
requested by the Council. The Authority shall be audited at the same time and
by the same independent auditor auditing the village accounts, and copies of
the audit report shall be filed with the Council.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.10 TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.
   An Authority which has completed the purposes for which it was organized
shall be dissolved by ordinance of the Council. The property and assets
remaining after the termination shall belong to the village.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 32.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon publication and the
filing of a copy of the same with the Secretary of State.
(Ord. 92, passed 10-4-1982)
CHAPTER 33: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Authority to assess
   
33.03   Manner of initiating special assessment projects
   
33.04   Survey and report
   
33.05   Review of report
   
33.06   Objections to improvement
   
33.07   Hearing on necessity
   
33.08   Special assessment roll
   
33.09   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
33.10   Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections in writing
   
33.11   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
33.12   Special assessment; when due
   
33.13   Partial payments; when due
   
33.14   Creation of lien
   
33.15   Additional assessments; refunds
   
33.16   Deferment of payment of assessment
   
33.17   Special assessment accounts
   
33.18   Contested assessments
   
33.19   Reassessment for benefits
   
33.20   Combination of projects
   
33.21   Short title
   
33.22   Effective date
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, includes
the cost of services, studies, plans, condemnation procedures, spreading of
rolls, notices, advertising, financing, construction and legal and engineering
fees, and all other costs incident to the making of the improvement, the
special assessments therefor and the financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement the nature of which
benefits specially any real property within district in the vicinity of the
improvements.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.02 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS.
   The cost, in whole or in part, of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefited by the
improvement in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.03 MANNER OF INITIATING SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the village
shall be initiated by resolution of the Council. The action may also be
initiated by the filing with the Village Clerk of a petition signed by 50% of
the owners of the property to be assessed for the improvement requesting that
the improvement be made and the cost thereof be defrayed by special assessment
upon the property benefited, but the petition shall be advisory to the Village
Council only.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.04 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   (A)   Before the Council shall consider the making of any such local public
improvement, the same shall be referred by resolution to the Street
Commissioner or his or her designee directing him or her to prepare a report
which shall include necessary plans, profiles, specifications, and detailed
estimates of cost, an estimate, of the life of the improvement, a description
of the assessment district or districts, and any other pertinent information as
will permit the Council to decide the cost, extent, and necessity of the
improvement proposed and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by
special assessments upon the property especially benefited and what part, if
any, should be paid by the village at large.
   (B)   The Council shall not finally determine to proceed with the making of
any local public improvement until the report has been prepared, nor until
after a public hearing has been held by the Council for the purpose of hearing
objections to the making of the improvements.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.05 REVIEW OF REPORT.
   After the report required in §
33.04 has been prepared, the Council shall review the same and, if desirous of
proceeding further, shall do so by resolution duly adopted containing the
following:
   (A)   A statement determining the necessity of the improvement, setting
forth the nature thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of
the improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property specially
benefited, determining the benefits received by affected properties designating
what part, if any, shall be paid by the village at large; the limits of the
special assessment district to be affected and whether the cost shall be
assessed according to frontage or in some other manner; and
   (B)   An order placing the complete information on file in the office of the
Clerk and directing that the same shall be available for public examination,
and directing the Clerk to give notice of public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which time and place opportunity will be given interested
persons to be heard. The notice shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper published or circulated within the village and by first-class mail
addressed to each person having an interest in property to be assessed as shown
by the last general tax assessment roll of the village, the publication and
mailing to be made at least ten full days prior to the date of the hearing. The
hearing required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or
special meeting of the Council.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.06 OBJECTIONS TO IMPROVEMENT.
   If, at, or prior to the public hearing as required in §
33.05, and before the adoption by the Village Council of the resolution to
proceed with the making of the public improvement as provided in §
33.07, written objections thereto have been filed by the owners of property in
the district which, according to the Street Commissioner's report, will be
required to bear more than 50% of the cost thereof, or by a majority of the
owners of property to be assessed, no resolution determining to proceed with
the improvement shall be adopted except by the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of the Council.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.07 HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons interested
shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Council may modify
the scope of the local public improvement in the manner as it shall deem to be
in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided that if the amount of
work is substantially increased, or additions are made to the district, then
another hearing shall be held pursuant to the notice prescribed in §
33.05. If the determination of the Council shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be adopted approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district, and detailed estimates of cost, and
directing the Village Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in
accordance with the Council's determination, and report the same to the Council
for confirmation.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.08 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefitted by the proposed improvement and
assess to each lot or parcel of land the amount benefitted thereby. The amount
spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed estimate of the Village
Street Commissioner, as approved by the Council. In the event the proceeds of
the special assessment are not required to defray the expense of any public
improvement prior to the completion thereof, the special assessment roll
therefor may be made within 60 days after the improvement is completed and
shall be based upon the actual cost thereof as defined in §
33.01.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.09 ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the Assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he or she shall
file the same with the Clerk for presentation to the Council for review and
certification by it.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.10 MEETING TO REVIEW SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; OBJECTIONS IN WRITING.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the Council, by resolution,
shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the office of the
Clerk for public examination; shall fix the time and place the Council will
meet to review the special assessment roll and direct the Clerk to give notice
of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an opportunity for interested
persons to be heard. The notice shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper published of general circulation within the village and by first-
class mail addressed to each person having an interest in property to be
assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the village, the
publication and mailing to be made at least ten full days prior to date of the
hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at any regular,
adjourned, or special meeting of the Council. At this meeting, all interested
persons or parties shall present in writing their objections, if any, to the
assessments against them. The Assessor shall be present at every meeting of the
Council at which a special assessment is to be reviewed.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.11 CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Council shall meet at the time and place designated for the review of
the special assessment roll and, at the meeting, or a proper adjournment
thereof, shall consider all objections thereto submitted in writing. The
Council may correct the roll as to any special assessment or description of any
lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein, or it may, by
resolution, annul the assessment roll and direct that new proceedings be
instituted. The same proceedings shall be followed in making a new roll as in
the making of the original roll. If, after hearing all objections and making a
record of the changes as the Council deems justified, the Council determines
that it is satisfied with the special assessment roll, and that assessments are
in proportion to benefits received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution
reciting the determinations, confirming the roll, placing it on file in the
office of the Clerk, and directing the Clerk to attach his or her warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the Assessor to
spread the various sums and amounts appearing thereon on a special assessment
roll for the full amounts, or in annual installments, as may be directed by the
Council. The roll shall have the date of confirmation endorsed thereon and
shall, from that data, be final and conclusive for the purpose of the
improvement to which it applies, subject only to adjustment to conform to the
actual cost of the improvement, as provided in §
33.15.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.12 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except the installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time as provided in this chapter, shall be due
and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll, and the total
assessment shall become a lien immediately upon the confirmation of the roll.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.13 PARTIAL PAYMENTS; WHEN DUE.
   The Council may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments. The annual installments shall be determined by the Village
Council but shall not exceed those authorized by law, the first installment
being due upon confirmation of the roll and at any other times as shall be
specified by Council. Subsequent installments shall be due on the anniversary
of the first installment. On all special assessments confirmed between January
1 and June 30 of any year, the second installment shall be due July 1 of the
following year and the remaining installments shall be due July 1 of each
succeeding year. Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments. At a
rate not to exceed 6% per annum, commencing on confirmation and payable on the
due date of each installment; the full amount of all or any deferred
installments, with interest accured thereon to the date of payment, may be paid
in advance of the due dates thereof. Each property owner shall have at least 60
days from the date of confirmation to pay the full amount of the assessment or
the full amount of any installments thereof, without interest or penalty.
Following the 60-day period, the assessment or first installment thereof shall,
if unpaid, be considered as delinquent, and the same penalties shall be
collected on the unpaid assessments, or unpaid first installments thereof, as
are provided by law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes. After
the Council has confirmed the roll, the Village Treasurer shall notify by mail
each property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed, stating the
amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of the Village
Treasurer to give the notice or of the owner to receive the notice, shall not
invalidate any special assessment roll on the village or any assessment
thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.14 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties, and charges thereon, from
the date of confirmation of the roll shall be and remain a lien upon the
property assessed of the same character and effect as the lien created by
general law for county and school taxes, and by law for village taxes, until
paid and the lands upon which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale
therefor the same as are lands upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a
lien. If special assessments or installments thereof remain delinquent as of
February 28, they shall be returned delinquent, with interest, penalties, and
charges added, to the County Treasurer for collection in the same manner as are
village, county, and school taxes.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.15 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The Street Commissioner shall, within 60 days after the completion of each
local public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and certify the same
to the Council. When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to
meet the cost of the improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an
additional pro rata assessment. No additional assessment for any public
improvement which exceeds 25% of the original assessment shall be made, unless
the additional assessment be reviewed at a meeting of the Council, for which
meeting notices shall be published and mailed as provided in the case of review
of the original special assessment roll. Provided, however, that no property
shall be assessed in excess of benefits received. Should the entire amount as
finally collected on the assessment roll prove larger than necessary by 5% of
the total cost of the improvement or more, the Council shall make a refund of
the excess thereof, pro rata, according to the assessments. Should the entire
amount as finally collected on the assessment roll prove larger than necessary
by less than 5% of the total cost of the improvement, the Council may transfer
the excess to the general funds of the village or make a refund thereof pro
rata according to assessments.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.16 DEFERMENT OF PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   An owner of a homestead as defined in Public 255 of 1976, § 1, who is
65 years of age or older or is totally and permanently disabled and who is also
a citizen of the United States and has been a resident of the state and sole
owner of the homestead for 57 years or more and who meets the minimum income
requirements of Public Act 255 of 1976, § 3, is eligible for the deferment of
special assessments due and payable hereunder. Subject to the provisions of
Public Act 255 of 1976, the payment of special assessments due and payable
hereunder on a homestead in any year in which an owner meets all of the terms
and conditions of Public Act 255 of 1976, shall be deferred until one year
after the owner's death, or until the homestead of any part thereof is sold,
conveyed, or transferred.
   (B)   An owner of a homestead eligible for deferment under Public Act 225 of
1976 may apply to the local assessing officer for deferment of the payment of
special assessments. The application shall be made upon the form to be
furnished and available from the State Department of Treasury.
   (C)   In accordance with Public Act 225 of 1976, § 5, upon receipt of the
application for deferment, the local assessing officer shall promptly examine
the same to determine if the applicant meets the requirements of the Act and
shall make an inspection of the property and property records and may conduct
the investigations and surveys as deemed necessary. The local assessing officer
shall thereupon promptly render a decision with respect to an application under
this provision and shall notify the applicant of the decision rendered not
later than the due date for the payment of any special assessment due
hereunder.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions of Public Act 255 of 1976, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.761 et seq.
§ 33.17 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local public
improvement shall be held in a special fund to pay the cost or to repay any
moneys borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.18 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining collection of any special assessment unless
45 days after confirmation of the special assessment roll written notice is
filed with the Clerk of intention to file the suit or action, stating grounds
on which it is claimed the assessment is illegal and unless the suit or action
shall be commenced within 90 days of confirmation of the roll.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.19 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatsoever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged the assessment to be illegal for any reason whatsoever, in
whole or in part, the Council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be
made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the
improvement or any part thereof has been completed and whether or not any part
of the assessment has been collected.
   (B)   All proceedings on the reassessment, and for the collection thereof,
shall be made in the manner as provided for the original assessment except with
regard to the correction of the proceedings for the purpose of making the
proceedings legal.
   (C)   If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected
and not refunded it shall be applied upon the reassessment and the reassessment
shall, to that extent, be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount reassessed
shall have been collected, that balance shall be refunded to the taxpayers.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.20 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Council may combine several districts into one project for the purpose
of effecting a saving in the costs; provided, however, that for each district
there shall be established separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the
same.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.21 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Special Assessment
Ordinance" of the village.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.22 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately on publication.
(Ord. 93, passed 5-2-1983)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL
Section
   
34.01   Personnel Manual adopted
   
34.02   Independent contractors and elected officials
   
34.03   Informational outline of benefits
   
34.04   Amendments by resolution
   
34.05   Effective date
§ 34.01 PERSONNEL MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts the Personnel Manual dated 12-17-2007, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein, as a manual applicable to
all personnel employed by the village.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 34.02 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS AND ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Nothing in the Personnel Manual shall be construed to apply to any persons
performing services for the village as an independent contractor or an elected
village official.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 34.03 INFORMATIONAL OUTLINE OF BENEFITS.
   Nothing in the Personnel Manual shall create a contract between the village
and any employee nor remove from the Village Council the authority to determine
the benefits, terms, and conditions of employment of any employee.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 34.04 AMENDMENTS BY RESOLUTION.
   All amendments of or modifications to the Personnel Manual shall be adopted
through a resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 34.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 2-4-2008.
(Ord. 201, passed 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Requisitions and estimates
   
35.03   Formal competitive bid process
   
35.04   Informal competitive quote process
   
35.05   Expenditure of village funds
   
35.06   Emergency purchases
   
35.07   Exceptions to formal competitive bidding and informal competitive
quotes
   
35.08   Additional purchases after competitive bidding
   
35.09   Blank orders
   
35.10   Disqualification
Statutory reference:
   Revised Municipal Finance Act, Act 34 of 2001, M.C.L.A. §§ 141.2101
PURCHASING
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Includes village boards, commissions, committees and authorities.
   CONTRACT. Includes, but is not limited to a purchase order for the
procurement of supplies and equipment.
   FORMAL BID LIMIT. An amount of $20,000.
   PURCHASING AGENT.
      (1)   The Village President shall act as purchasing agent of the village,
unless he or she shall designate another officer or village employee to act as
purchasing agent.
      (2)   Every purchase order shall be approved by the purchasing agent
before being issued.
      (3)   The purchasing agent may adopt rules regulating requisitions and
purchase orders.
§ 35.02 REQUISITIONS AND ESTIMATES.
   (A)   All agencies and departments of the village shall file with the
purchasing agent detailed estimates of their requirements in supplies,
materials, equipment and contractual services in such manner, at such times and
for such future periods as the Village President shall prescribe.
   (B)   The requirement for preparing estimates shall not prohibit any agency
or department from filing with the purchasing agent at any time a requisition
for any supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services the need for
which was not foreseen when the detailed estimates were filed.
§ 35.03 FORMAL COMPETITIVE BID PROCESS.
   Except as exempted in §
35.07:
   (A)   All supplies, equipment or contractual services amounting in value to
more than the formal bid limit shall be secured by competitive bids and written
contract. Notices inviting sealed competitive bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper or journal in the village and at least five days before the
final date for submitting of bids. The notices shall state the general
description of the article or service to be purchased, where specifications can
be obtained and the time and place for the opening of bids. The purchasing
agency or department may, in addition, solicit sealed bids from prospective
suppliers by sending them copies of the bid forms and specifications to
acquaint them with the proposed purchase.
   (B)   All bids shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer. In cases of
construction contracts or purchases involving large sums of money, the Village
Council may require that the successful bidder post a surety bond in the amount
that it deems proper. The bids shall be opened publicly by the Clerk-Treasurer
or designee at the time and place stated in the public notice. After
examination and tabulation by the Clerk-Treasurer, all bids may be inspected by
the competing bidders. The Village Council may reject any or all bids or the
bid for one or more commodities included in the proposed contract, when the
public interest will be served thereby, the Village Council may authorize the
purchase of the commodities in the open market, provided the price paid in the
open market shall not exceed any bid price submitted for the same commodity.
Otherwise, the contract shall be awarded by the Village Council on the basis of
the bid most advantageous to the village. The Village Council shall take into
consideration quality offered with the bid, delivery terms and the service
reputation of the vendor in making their award of the contract.
§ 35.04 INFORMAL COMPETITIVE QUOTE PROCESS.
   Except as exempted in §
35.07:
   (A)   All purchases of supplies, equipment or contractual services, the
estimated cost of which is less than the formal bid limit, may be made in the
open market; without newspaper advertisement and without the necessity of
observing the procedure prescribed in §
35.03 for the award of the contracts.
   (B)   All open market purchases shall, whenever possible, be based on at
least three competitive quotes and shall be awarded on the basis of the quote
most advantageous to the village. The purchasing agent shall keep a record of
all open market orders and the records shall also be open to public inspection.
§ 35.05 EXPENDITURE OF VILLAGE FUNDS.
   Except as exempted in §
35.06, the purchasing agent shall not issue any order for delivery on a
contract or any open market order unless and until the Clerk-Treasurer
certifies that there is to the credit of each of the agencies or departments
concerned a sufficient appropriation balance in excess of all unpaid
obligations, to defray the cost of the supplies, equipment or contractual
services.
§ 35.06 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In an emergency or an apparent emergency endangering the public peace,
health or safety of the village, the designated purchasing agent, the Village
President or any department head may purchase directly any supplies, materials,
equipment or services which he or she deems immediately necessary. A full
report shall be filed by the Village President with the Village Council within
a 30-day period.
§ 35.07 EXCEPTIONS TO FORMAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND INFORMAL COMPETITIVE
QUOTES.
   Formal competitive bidding and informal competitive quotes shall not be
required in the following cases:
   (A)   Where the subject of the contract is other than a public work or
improvement and the product or material contracted for is not competitive in
nature or no advantage to the village would result from requiring competitive
bidding or informal competitive quotes and the Village Council by resolution
authorizes execution of the contract without competitive bidding or competitive
quotes;
   (B)   In the employment of professional services including, but not limited
to medical, accounting, auditing, data processing, legal, planning, engineering
and architectural and the Village Council by resolution authorizes execution of
the contract without competitive bidding or competitive quotes;
   (C)   Where the scope of the work is not definitive and as a result a
request for proposal is difficult to prepare and/or the cost of preparing the
request for proposal is expected to exceed the cost of the contract and the
Village Council, by resolution, authorizes execution of the contract without
competitive bidding or competitive quotes;
   (D)   For purchases from or joint purchases with another unit of government;
   (E)   When the village elects to perform the work using village employees;
and
   (F)   For purchases of supplies, equipment or contractual services, the
estimated cost of which is less than 10% of the formal bid limit.
§ 35.08 ADDITIONAL PURCHASES AFTER COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   The purchasing agent may make additional purchases of supplies, materials,
equipment or services from a successful bidder, provided that:
   (A)   Amounts of additional purchase are at the same cost or less per
quantity as originally bid by the vendor;
   (B)   Amounts of additional purchase do not exceed the cost of the original
purchase;
   (C)   The purchase occurs not more than 12 months after the date of the
original purchase; and
   (D)   The purchasing agent is reasonably certain that the same supply,
material, equipment or service is not available at a lesser cost from any
source.
§ 35.09 BLANKET ORDERS.
   Periodic purchases from a single vendor as set forth in a single purchase
order for reasons of time savings, availability and competitive pricing may be
made using a blanket order. The competitive pricing of the goods or services
shall be reviewed no less frequently than every 24 months.
§ 35.10 DISQUALIFICATION.
   No bid shall be accepted from or contract awarded to a bidder who is in
arrears to the village, who is in default on any contract with or payment due
to the village or who has previously demonstrated bad faith in dealings with
the village.
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement
   
36.03   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
36.04   Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau; creation; location; supervision;
employees; rules and regulations
   
36.05   Authorized village officials
   
36.06   Disposition of violations; Bureau limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility
   
36.07   Municipal civil infraction violation notices
   
36.08   Appearance; payment of fines and costs
   
36.09   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid
   
36.10   Civil fines
   
36.11   Accounting and disposition of civil fines
   
36.12   Availability of other enforcement remedies
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8396 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer or other personnel of the
village authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil
infraction citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU. The Village of Webberville Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau as
established hereby.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION. A written notice prepared by an
authorized village official, directing a person to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the village, as
authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
§ 36.02 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized village official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau.
§ 36.03 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized village officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state's Court Administrator. The original citation shall be
filed with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the
village and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
village official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: "I declare, under the penalties of perjury, that
the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief."
   (E)   An authorized village official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized village official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or village attorney approves
in writing the issuance of the municipal civil infraction citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
village official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) below, an authorized village
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting a copy
on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a
copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner's last known address.
§ 36.04 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU; CREATION; LOCATION; SUPERVISION;
EMPLOYEES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The village hereby creates the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau
("Bureau") pursuant to the Act (M.C.L.A. § 600.8396), as it may be amended from
time to time, to accept admissions of responsibility for municipal civil
infractions for which municipal civil infraction violation notices have been
issued and served by authorized village officials, and to collect and retain
civil fines for admissions of responsibility as prescribed by this code or any
ordinance.
   (B)   The Bureau shall be located at the Webberville Village Hall and shall
be under the supervision and control of the village's Clerk-Treasurer. The
village's Clerk-Treasurer, subject to the approval of the Village Council,
shall adopt rules and regulations for the operation of the Bureau.
§ 36.05 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   Village police officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and may issue municipal civil infraction violation notices or municipal
civil infraction citations for any municipal civil infraction. An official who
has previously been authorized to enforce any provision of the code or any
ordinance of the village, by the code or any ordinance shall be authorized to
enforce that provision of the code or any ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction under the provisions of this chapter, and may issue municipal civil
infraction violation notices or municipal civil infraction citations.
Additionally, the Village Council may by resolution, authorize other persons to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, including issuing municipal civil
infraction violation notices or municipal infraction citations.
§ 36.06 DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS; BUREAU LIMITED TO ACCEPTING ADMISSIONS OF
RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Bureau may only dispose of municipal civil infraction violations for
which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal civil infraction
notice, as compared to a citation, has been issued. The Bureau's authority
shall be limited to accepting admissions of responsibility for municipal civil
infractions and collecting and retaining civil fines and costs as result of
those admissions. The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine from anyone who
denies having committed the offense or who admits responsibility only with
explanation and, in no event shall the Bureau determine or attempt to determine
the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to the alleged violation.
§ 36.07 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICES.
   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by
authorized village officials under the same circumstances and upon the same
persons as provided for citations in §
36.03(F) and (G). In addition to any other information required by this code or
other ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the date by which the
alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an appearance
may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged
violation and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the required fine
within the required time.
§ 36.08 APPEARANCE; PAYMENT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   An alleged violator receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice
shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and costs at or by the
date specified for appearance in the municipal civil infraction violation
notice. An appearance may be made by mail, in person or by representation.
§ 36.09 PROCEDURE WHERE ADMISSION OF RESPONSIBILITY NOT MADE OR FINE NOT PAID.
   If an authorized village official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, the Clerk-Treasurer or other designated
village employee shall notify the issuing official that the alleged violator
has not admitted responsibility and/or has not paid the fine and costs. A
municipal civil infraction citation may be filed with the district court and a
copy of the citation may be served by first-class mail upon the alleged
violator at the alleged violator's last known address. The citation filed with
the court does not need to comply in all particulars with the requirements for
citations as provided by §§ 8705 and 8709 of the Act, but shall consist of a
sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance
violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to respond to
the citation.
§ 36.10 CIVIL FINES.
   Unless a different civil fine is provided for in any ordinance, the schedule
of civil fines, payable to the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau for
admissions of responsibility by persons served with municipal civil infraction
violation notices shall be as established from time by a resolution adopted by
the Webberville Village Council.
§ 36.11 ACCOUNTING AND DISPOSITION OF CIVIL FINES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer or other designated employee shall retain all municipal
civil infraction violation notices and shall account to the Village Council as
directed concerning the number of admissions and denials of responsibility for
municipal civil infractions and the amount of fines and costs collected. The
amounts collected in civil fines and costs shall be placed in the general fund
of the village.
§ 36.12 AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the village to initiate
its ordinance enforcement activity through the issuance of a municipal civil
infraction violation notice. The village shall have the right to directly
proceed with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for any
municipal civil infraction, or to take other enforcement action as authorized
by law.
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
Tax Exemption
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Title
   
37.03   Preamble
   
37.04   Definitions
   
37.05   Class of housing development
   
37.06   Establishment of annual service charge
   
37.07   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
37.08   Contractual effect of regulations
   
37.09   Payment of service charge
   
37.10   Duration
   
37.11   Filing of annual audit
   
37.12   Publication and effective date
TAX EXEMPTION
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter authorizes and approves an annual service charge in lieu of
taxes for residential housing developments that:
   (A)   Serve low income or moderate income persons (as defined in the State
Housing Development Authority Act, Act 346 of the Public Acts of Michigan of
1966, as amended, and this chapter);
   (B)   Are financed or assisted by USDA-RD or the authority in accordance
with Act 346;
   (C)   Are located within the village; and
   (D)   Comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Webberville Tax
Exemption Ordinance.”
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.03 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for low income
citizens and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with Act 346. The
village is authorized by Act 346 and this chapter to establish or change the
annual service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any and all classes of
housing exempt from taxation under Act 346 at any amount it chooses not to
exceed the taxes that would be paid but for Act 346. It is further acknowledged
that housing for low income persons and families is a public necessity, and as
the village will be benefitted and improved by such housing, the encouragement
of the same by providing certain real-estate tax exemptions for such housing is
a valid public purpose; further, that the continuance of the provisions of this
chapter for tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the
period contemplated in this chapter are essential to the determination of
economic feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed
in reliance on such tax exemption.
   (B)   The village acknowledges that T J Kalamink Creek Limited Dividend
Housing Association Limited Partnership (the “Sponsor” as defined in § 37.04 of
this chapter) has committed to rehabilitate, own and operate a housing
development identified as “Kalamink Creek Apartments” on certain property
located on 392 W. Grand River Avenue within the Village of Webberville,
Michigan, which is legally described in § 37.04 of this chapter, to serve low
income or moderate income persons, and that the sponsor has offered to pay and
will pay to the village, on account of the housing development, an annual
service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used within this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Act 346 of the
Public Acts of Michigan of 1966, as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENTS. The total actual collections during each calendar year
from all occupants of a housing development representing rents or occupancy
charges, which rental amounts shall be exclusive of charges for gas,
electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CLASS. The housing development known as Kalamink Creek Apartments for low
income or moderate income persons.
   CONTRACT RENTS. As defined by the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U. S. Housing Act of
1937, as amended.
   FEDERALLY-AIDED MORTGAGE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A mortgage insured, purchased, or held by the Secretary of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) or United States Department
of Agriculture – Rural Development (“USDA-RD”);
      (2)   A mortgage receiving interest credit reduction payments provided by
the HUD or USDA – RD;
      (3)   A housing development to which the authority allocates low income
housing tax credits under Section 22b of the Act; or
      (4)   A mortgage receiving special benefits under other federal law
designated specifically to develop low and moderate-income housing, consistent
with the Act.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and educational facilities as
the authority determines to improve the quality of the development as it
relates to housing for persons of low income. For the purposes of this chapter,
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT means Kalamink Creek Apartments located on the property
legally described as:
      THAT PART OF THE NW ¼ OF SECTION 11, T3N, R2E, VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE,
MICHIGAN DESCRIBED AS: COMMENCING AT THE NORTH ¼ CORNER OF SAID SECTION 11;
THENCE S00°22'20" E 2159.30 FEET ALONG THE N-S ¼ LINE OF SAID SECTION 11 TO A
POINT ON THE NORTH RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF GRAND RIVER AVENUE; THENCE N88°04'30" W
180.00 FEET ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING OF THIS
DESCRIPTION; THENCE CONTINUING N88°04'30"W 459.00 FEET ALONG SAID RIGHT OF WAY
LINE; THENCE N00°22'20"W 250.00 FEET PARALLEL WITH SAID N-S ¼ LINE; THENCE
S88°04'30"E 459.00 FEET PARALLEL WITH SAID RIGHT OF WAY LINE; THENCE S00°22'20"
E 250.00 FEET PARALLEL WITH SAID N-S ¼ LINE TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
   LOW INCOME OR MODERATE INCOME PERSONS. Shall be as defined in the Act, as
amended.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities which have applied to the authority for the tax
credits to finance a housing development. For the purposes of this chapter, the
sponsor is T J Kalamink Creek Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited
Partnership.
   TAX CREDITS. The low income housing tax credits made available by the
authority to the sponsor for rehabilitation of the housing development by the
sponsor in accordance with the low income housing tax credit program
administered by the authority under Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended.
   USDA-RD. The United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Services
Division.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service,
which are paid by the housing development.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.05 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
    This chapter shall apply only to the housing development to the extent that
the housing development provides housing for low income and moderate income
persons and is financed or assisted by USDA-RD or the authority pursuant to the
act.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The village acknowledges that the sponsor and USDA-RD and/or the
authority have established the economic feasibility of the housing development
in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this chapter and the
qualification of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes
and payment of an annual service charge in lieu of taxes in an amount
established in accordance with this section. In consideration of the sponsor's
offer to rehabilitate, own and operate the housing development, the village
agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge for public services in
lieu of all ad valorem property taxes that would otherwise be assessed to the
housing development under Michigan law.
      (1)   Effective upon the adoption of Ordinance No. 216 and subject to the
receipt by the village of the “notification of exemption” (or such other
similar notification) by the sponsor and/or the authority, the annual service
charge shall be equal to 5% percent of annual shelter rents plus the legal and
other expenses of the village relative to the preparation of this chapter and
the exemption provided herein and any future extensions or modification
thereof.
      (2)   The sponsor shall report its annual shelter rents by March 1 of
each year. The sponsor shall pay its annual service charge by March 31 of each
year.
   (B)   The housing development, and the property on which it shall be
constructed, shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the
commencement of rehabilitation of the housing development by the sponsor under
the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.07 LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   Notwithstanding § 37.06, if any portion of the housing development is
occupied by other than low income and moderate income persons, the full amount
of the taxes that would be paid on those units of the housing development if
the housing development were not tax exempt shall be added to the service
charge in lieu of taxes.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.08 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, and subject to the terms of this chapter including, but not limited
to §
37.11 herein, this chapter constitutes a contract between the village and the
sponsor to provide an exemption from ad valorem property taxes and to accept
the payment of an annual service charge in lieu of such taxes, as previously
described in this chapter. It is expressly recognized that the authority and
USDA-RD are third party beneficiaries to this chapter.
   (A)   Event of default.  An event of default shall occur if owner fails to
pay when due, taxes, utility expenses or other charges owing the village for a
period of 30 days after written notice from village that the same is due and
payable. It shall also be event of default if the owner fails to comply with
requirements of this chapter or the municipal services agreement between the
village and the owner for a period of 30 days after written notice from the
village. A copy of any notice of default shall also be given to the Michigan
State Housing Development Authority, Attn: Director of Legal Affairs, 735 East
Michigan Avenue, Lansing MI 48912.
   (B)   Village remedies in event of default. Upon the occurrence of any event
of default, village may declare this chapter to be null and void by adopting a
resolution to that effect without further notice other than that required in
division (A) above of this section.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12; Ord. 217, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 37.09 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes shall be payable to the village in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are payable, except that the annual
payment shall be paid on or before March 31 of each year for the previous
calendar year.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.10 DURATION.
   If this chapter is not terminated for default pursuant to § 37.08, this
chapter shall remain in effect and shall not terminate for a term of 15 years
or so long as the housing development remains subject to a federally aided
mortgage and so long as the housing development submits the required annual
notification of exemption pursuant to M.C.L.A. 125.1415a(1), as amended.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.11 FILING OF ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The sponsor, or its successor, shall file a copy of any and all annual
audits required to be provided to the federal government, the State of
Michigan, and/or the authority simultaneously with the village. The audit shall
include detail with respect to occupancy of the housing development, annual
shelter rents received from the housing development, and the cost for utilities
during the audit period.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
§ 37.12 PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective the day following its publication or the
day following publication of a summary of its provisions in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village.
(Ord. 216, passed 5-7-12)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General provisions
   
50.03   Brush pickup
   
50.04   Garbage and rubbish pickup
   
50.05   Refuse building material disposal
   
50.06   Garbage, brush, and rubbish violations
   
50.07   Recreational burning
   
50.08   Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
   
50.09   Municipal civil infraction
   
50.10   Composting
   
50.11   Effective date
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. Sticks, small branches from seasonal trimming of trees and shrubbery,
or broken branches resulting from storm damage.
   COMPOST. Grass clippings, leaves, weeds, garden debris, clean wood, ash,
sawdust, wood chips, egg shells, coffee grounds, small brush, and twigs.
   GARBAGE. All refuse and waste attendant to the preparation, dressing, or
cooking of food and unwashed tin, paper, and other types of combustible refuse
food containers.
   REFUSE BUILDING MATERIALS. All wood, plaster, stone, brick, or other waste
and unused materials resulting from the repair or construction of any building
or structure.
   RUBBISH. Ashes, dirt, tin cans, washed food containers, waste paper, grass
and similar organic material, glass, and other similar waste materials.
   SUITABLE RECEPTACLE. Any watertight metal or plastic container or plastic
bag capable of being sufficiently sealed to keep out water and to prevent
disturbance by animals and capable of being easily handled and loaded by one
person.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 50.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the duty of all owners, proprietors, lessees, occupants, or
other persons in charge of any dwelling, house, store, manufacturing
establishment, office building, or other structure in the village to place or
caused to be placed, all garbage and rubbish accumulating on the premises in
suitable receptacles.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 BRUSH PICKUP.
   It shall be the responsibility of any person referred to in §
50.02 to cut and place any brush neatly between the sidewalk and the street,
with nothing extending over the road or sidewalk, with the cut end facing the
road. Brush may be placed in the right-of-way no earlier than the Friday
preceding pickup. Brush may not exceed five inches in diameter or eight feet in
length. There shall be no garden waste, leaves, lumber, roots, concrete,
stones, or poison ivy mixed with the brush. Thorny bushes and vines must be cut
into four-foot lengths and tied in small bundles with string (no rope, twine,
or wire).
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006; Am. Ord. 213, passed 5-9-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PICKUP.
   Any person referred to in §
50.02 desiring garbage or rubbish to be disposed of by the village shall be
required to place, or caused to be placed, the same on the days scheduled for
collection thereof in a suitable receptacle in the right-of-way between the
sidewalk and curb lines or driveway approach in front of the premises,
provided, however, that no receptacle shall be placed for collection prior to
12:00 p.m. preceding the day of collection.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 REFUSE BUILDING MATERIAL DISPOSAL.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, contractor, or other person responsible
for construction work on any premises in the village to remove therefrom all
surpluses and refuse building material within 30 days after completion of the
construction work and dispose of the same in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 GARBAGE, BRUSH, AND RUBBISH VIOLATIONS.
   The Department of Public Works (DPW) is hereby authorized to collect any
garbage, rubbish, or brush allowed to accumulate on any property in the village
by any person referred to in §
50.02 and add the cost thereof assessable as provided by the Village Council.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 50.07 RECREATIONAL BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, lessee, or
occupant to burn any garbage, including treated wood or other waste material,
within the village. Material that is acceptable to burn in a recreational fire
shall be limited to clean, clear, unpainted, unfinished, and untreated wood and
wood products excluding particle board and similar products, split firewood,
tree limbs, and charcoal. No accelerant such as gasoline and kerosene may be
used except charcoal lighter fluid.
   (B)   Recreational fires shall be permitted. A recreational fire shall be an
outdoor fire and located in a fire pit, outdoor grill, and/or container
commercially constructed for use as a fire pit and/or burner that is designed
to adequately contain ashes and cinders. The fire shall be limited to a
container no larger than 36 inches in diameter, and must be done no closer than
ten feet to property lines or 15 feet from any building or structure. Burning
should be confined to the rear yard unless conditions exist that it is not
possible. No burning may be conducted in the front yard. Flames may not exceed
18 inches in height.
   (C)   Any recreational fire shall be constantly attended by a person at
least 16 years of age, who is fully physically and mentally capable of
extinguishing the fire.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT.
   The Village Council, pursuant to the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, is authorized to establish and impose, by resolution, rates,
charges, and fees, and enter into contracts relative to the same, with persons
using a waste management project, to the extent necessary to fulfill the
provisions in this chapter. The resolution shall establish the rates, charges,
and fees and the manner and method of collection and payment, and further, that
such be a lien on the premises for which the services have been provided.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 50.09 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, firm, partnership, lessee, occupant, or corporation violating
any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a municipal
civil infraction and punishable as provided by law or any other ordinance in
effect in the village.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 COMPOSTING.
   It shall be lawful to maintain a composting pile in a contained area in the
rear yard. The composting of household garbage or human or animal waste will
not be permitted.
Do Compost Do Not Compost
Do Compost              Do Not Compost
Grass clippings         Whole branches, logs
Leaves                  Pet or human waste
Weeds and garden debris Charcoal briquette ash
Small brush, twigs      Sawdust from treated wood
Sawdust and wood chips
Egg shells
Coffee grounds
 
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-19-2006)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Operation, maintenance, and control
   
51.04   Use of public sewers required
   
51.05   Private sewage disposal
   
51.06   Building sewers and connection
   
51.07   Use of the public sewer
   
51.08   System charges and rates
   
51.09   Fiscal year; records and funds
   
51.10   Miscellaneous provisions
   
51.11   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Table of Unit Factors
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Webberville Sewer Ordinance."
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public sanitary sewer system
located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, or public way which crosses,
adjoins, or abuts upon the property which passes not more than 200 feet at the
nearest point from a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   B.O.D. The biochemical oxygen demand, which is the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C, expressed as milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The sewer that connects the building in which sanitary
sewage originates to the public sewer or other place of disposal and conveys
the sewage of but one building.
   COMMERCIAL USERS. Any establishment being involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based upon a determination by the
village, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in a publicly owned
wastewater treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids,
pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus "additional pollutants" identified in the
NPDES permit of the publicly owned treatment works designed to treat the
pollutants and which does in fact remove the pollutants to a substantial
degree. The "additional pollutants" may include, but not be limited to:
chemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, phosphorous and phosphorous
compounds, nitrogen and nitrogen compounds, fats, oils, and greases of animal
or vegetable origin.
   COUNTY. The County of Ingham, State of Michigan.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge assessed users of the system which is used
to pay principal, interest, and administrative costs of retiring the debt
incurred for the construction of improvements of and extensions to the system.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. The connection of premises where sanitary sewage
originates directly to sewer lines constructed by the village.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A facility connected to a sanitary sewer system and which
is occupied by governmental offices or any other facility that provides
governmental services at public expense.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDIRECT CONNECTION. The connection of any premises to any sewer lines not
originally comprising the sewer system constructed by the village but later
connected, such as premises served by a subdivision or mobile home park
sanitary sewer which in turn connects to the public sewer.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any nongovernmental manufacturing or processing facility
discharging wastewater to a public sanitary sewer system, or any trade or
process which discharges wastewater to a public sanitary sewer system, and
which may contain toxic or poisonous substances or may contain any substance
which may inhibit or disrupt any sanitary sewer system, wastewater treatment
system or disposal system for solid wastes which are generated in a publicly
owned treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business process as distinct from their employees' domestic waste or waste from
sanitary conveniences.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A hospital, detention facility, medical facility, or
other similar facility that has or provides care for persons, but which is not
a residential user.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned sewage
works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Water Pollution Control Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317a; or
      (4)   As found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned sewage works receiving the
waste, to have a significant impact either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries on the treatment works or upon the quality of effluent
emanating from the treatment works.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. A residence in which more than one family
resides.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. A sewage or other wastewater effluent
which shall be a compatible pollutant as defined in this section and with
B.O.D. of 300 milligrams per liter or less, suspended solids of 350 milligrams
per liter or less, and total phosphorus of 12 milligrams per liter or less.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System prescribed in Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1215 et
seq., through the State Department of Natural Resources.
   O&M CHARGE. The charge assessed to users of the system for the cost of
operation and maintenance (including the cost of replacement) of the system.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M). All work, materials, equipment, utilities,
and other effort required to operate and maintain the system, including the
cost of replacement, wastewater collection, transportation, and treatment of
effluent consistent with adequate treatment of wastewater to produce an
effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other county, state, and
federal regulations, if any.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, partnership, association, society,
group, or corporation, or a governmental entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The appointed inspector of the village, or if none, then
state inspector.
   PRESENT SYSTEM. The part of the system which has already been constructed or
will be constructed or acquired and the cost financed by the methods and means
provided in this chapter.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. Any septic tank, lagoon, cesspool, or other
facilities intended or used for the disposal of sanitary sewage other than via
the public sanitary sewer.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the
public sewers with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or persons having legal title to the premises
according to the village's tax records and shall include in the case of land
contract sale the land contract vendee or vendees, provided that the village
has been furnished with a copy of the land contract or its assignment.
   PUBLIC SEWER or PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sanitary sewer constructed, used,
or intended for use by the public for the collection and transportation of
sanitary sewage for treatment or disposal and owned, operated, and controlled
by the village.
   REPLACEMENT. The obtaining and installing of any equipment, accessories, and
appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the system to
maintain the capacity and performance to which the system was designed and
constructed and to preserve its financial integrity.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT or EQUIVALENT UNIT. The factor representing a ratio
of the estimated sewage generated by each user class to that generated by the
normal single-family residential user. The designation RE shall mean
RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. The user of the system whose premises or building is used
primarily as a residence for one or more persons including dwelling units such
as detached, semi-detached, row houses, mobile homes, apartments, or permanent
multi-family dwellings. For purposes of this chapter, transient lodgings shall
be considered to be a "commercial" use.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The liquid- or water-carried waste discharge from sanitary
conveniences of dwellings, including apartment houses, motels and hotels,
office buildings, factories, or institutions.
   SANITARY SEWER. The sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial waste
or either of them and into which storm, surface, and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of sanitary sewage, storm water, industrial waste,
and uncontaminated industrial waste, or any of them.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices or structures used for
the treating of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit and appurtenances for transmitting or carrying
sanitary sewage including any devices necessary for pumping, lifting, or
collecting the sewage.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A residence in which only one family resides.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT. A special assessment district within the
village wastewater collection system which may be established by the Village
Council for the purpose of defraying, in whole or in part, the cost of the
present sewer system or any extension.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intentionally designed for receiving and conveying
storm, surface, and ground water and into which sanitary sewage shall not be
admitted.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building in which a toilet,
kitchen, laundry, bathing, or other facilities which generate water-carried
sanitary sewage are used or are available for use for household, commercial,
industrial, or other purposes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Village Street Commissioner.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charge which a user discharging wastewater having
strength in excess of the limits set by the village for transmission and
treatment within the sanitary sewage system will be required to pay to meet the
cost of treating the excessively strong wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in the water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filter.
   SYSTEM. The complete village wastewater system.
   TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS. The table which is included in
Appendix A of this chapter and is adopted by the village and utilized to
identify the various classifications of sewer users and stating as "residential
equivalents" (or RE) the ratio of the use of the system to that of a single-
family residence.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on users of the system for the cost of its
operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to the sanitary sewers, including,
but not limited to, residential, industrial, commercial, institutional, and
governmental.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Webberville, Ingham County, Michigan.
   WASTEWATER. Water which contains, or previous to treatment has contained,
pollutants such as sewage or industrial wastes.
   WATER COURSE. An open channel, either natural or artificial in which a flow
of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 51.03 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND CONTROL.
   The operation and maintenance of the system shall be under the supervision
and control of the village subject to this chapter. Pursuant to the terms of
this chapter, the village retains the exclusive right to establish, maintain,
and collect rates and charges for sewage collection, treatment, transmission,
and debt service. In this capacity, the Village Council may employ any persons
in any capacity it deems advisable, and may make any rules or regulations as it
deems advisable and necessary, to assure the efficient establishment,
operation, and maintenance of the system, and to discharge its financial
obligations, and for the collection of rates and charges as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 51.04 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Mandatory connection requirement. The owner of property on which is
located a structure in which sanitary sewage originates, lying within the
village limits, shall, at his or her expense, install suitable toilet
facilities in the structure, and shall cause the facilities to be connected to
the available public sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Connection procedures.
      (1)   Connection to the system shall be completed promptly, but in no
case later than 90 days from the date of the occurrence of the last of the
following events:
         (a)   Publication of a notice by the Village Clerk of the availability
of the public sanitary sewer system in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, and the mailing of written notice indicating the availability of
the public sanitary sewer to the owner or any one of the owners in case of co-
ownership of the property in question; and/or
         (b)   Modification of a structure so as to become a structure where
sanitary sewage originates.
      (2)   If the owner of property on which is located a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates does not complete connection to an available
sanitary sewer within the 90-day period described in division (B)(1) above, the
Village Clerk shall notify the person by written notice that connection to the
system is required forthwith. The giving of the notice shall be made by first-
class or certified mail to the owner of the property on which the structure is
located or by posting the notice on the property. This notice shall provide the
owner with the approximate location of the public sanitary sewer system which
is available for connection of the structure involved and shall advise the
owner of the requirements and the enforcement provisions of this chapter and §§
12752 through 12758 of the Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.
      (3)   In the event the property owner is unable to connect to the system
within the time prescribed by this chapter due to or on account of inclement or
adverse weather conditions, the property owner may appeal to the Village
Council to allow additional time in which to connect without penalty and
without civil and criminal proceedings being initiated to compel connection.
This appeal shall be made in writing within ten days from the publication of
the notice of "sanitary sewer availability," as previously set forth in
division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Without prior consent of the Village Council, it shall be unlawful for
any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited upon any public or
private property within the village (or any area under its jurisdiction) any
human excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet, any
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or other polluted water except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Except as provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage or industrial waste.
   (D)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.04, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sanitary sewer
disposal system which shall be approved by the County Health Department.
   (E)   At the time as the public sanitary sewer system becomes available to
premises served by a private sanitary sewage disposal system, connection to the
public system shall be made in compliance with this chapter, and any septic
tank, cesspools, and similar private disposal facilities located on the
premises shall be abandoned and discontinued for sanitary sewage disposal use.
   (F)   All private sanitary sewage disposal systems maintained in compliance
with this chapter shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times at the
sole expense of the owner.
   (G)   All abandoned private sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be
completely filled with earth, sand, gravel, concrete, or other approved
material. Upon the abandonment or discontinuation of use of a septic tank or
privy, the sewage and sludge contents shall be completely removed and disposed
of by a septic tank cleaner who is duly licensed as may be set out in state
law. The tank, or the pit in the instance of a privy, shall be treated with at
least ten pounds of chlorinated lime or other chemical disinfectant acceptable
to the County Health Department, and be completely backfilled with approved
material and made safe from the hazard of collapse or entrapment.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   Building sewer regulations.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer (lead) shall be provided
for every building in which sanitary sewage originates, or connected to an
existing sewer as may be allowed by the County Health Department.
      (2)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation of the
building sewer and the connection of to the public sewer shall be borne by the
property owner.
      (3)   All building sewers (leads) shall meet or exceed all requirements
of this chapter.
      (4)   All building sewers installed shall consist of pipes and fittings
of the following types and sizes:
         (a)   Pipe must be of sufficient diameter to carry the estimated
volume of discharge. Minimum pipe size permitted is four-inch ID on private
property and six-inch ID within the public right-of-way;
         (b)   Pipe must be one of the following materials and cannot be mixed
in the connection lines to include the fittings:
            1.   Cast iron with rubber-type gaskets;
            2.   Cast iron NH pipe with neoprene stainless couplings;
            3.   Ductile iron with rubber-type gaskets slip joint or mechanical
joint;
            4.   Vitrified clay tile with ASTM C425 joints;
            5.   Reinforced concrete with ASTM C443 joints; or
            6.   PVC or ABS plastic, Schedule 40 or better.
         (c)   No tees, double tees, crosses, or double hub pipes shall be
permitted; and
         (d)   All changes in grades shall be made with appropriate one-eighth
bends.
      (5)   Cleanouts shall be installed every 90 feet of straight run and at
each 90-degree direction change (two 45-degree connections). All cleanouts
shall be plugged, and shall be accessible at any time.
      (6)   All lines shall be laid at a minimum slope of one-eighth inch per
foot grade and a maximum slope of one-half inch per foot grade for four-inch
lines and a minimum one-eighth inch per foot grade and a maximum one-half inch
per foot grade for six-inch lines.
      (7)   The method to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall conform to the requirements of the
Plumbing Code Rules (Part 7) issued by the State Department of Labor,
Construction Code Commission.
      (8)   No building sewer shall be laid within three feet of any bearing
wall and the depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
      (9)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by a pumping system and discharged to the building sewer.
      (10)   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection
shall be pursuant to appropriate permits and shall be adequately guarded by
barricades and lighting so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, alleys, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the installation and connection work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the village.
      (11)   All building sewers servicing a building containing more than two
residential units shall, in addition to the other requirements, be air tested
and approved by the village.
   (B)   Connection regulations.
      (1)   No person shall uncover, make any connections to or openings into,
alter, or disturb any public sewer, building sewer, or appurtenance thereto
without first obtaining a written connection permit from the village.
      (2)   The fee, if any, for the connection permit shall be an amount
established by ordinance or resolution of the Village Council.
      (3)   The owner or contractor applying for a connection permit will
receive three copies of the permit, one copy each for the contractor, the
property owner, with the third copy to be returned to the village with a sketch
of the installation on the back showing all dimensions, directions, and other
important information concerning the installation. The latter copy will remain
the property of the village.
      (4)   No connection to the system will be permitted unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and
the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for treatment of B.O.D. and
suspended solids.
      (5)   All connections to the system will be made by a licensed contractor
or plumber. A property owner may make his or her own installation and
connection so long as he or she has secured a connection permit.
      (6)   All licensed contractors and plumbers making connections to the
system shall first register with the village and file a bond with the village
in the amount of $10,000, and in addition shall provide the village with a copy
of their plumbers' or contractors' license from the state and a copy of their
liability insurance prior to performing any connections to the system. The bond
shall indemnify the village against all losses or damages caused the village by
reason of the contractors' or plumbers' breach of this chapter or any related
rule or regulation. The Village Council may, upon notice of a violation by a
licensee, revoke registration. The revocation shall become final unless the
license revocation is reversed by the Village Council.
      (7)   No person shall connect roof downspouts, foundation drains, area
way drains, swimming pool drains, or any sources of surface or ground water to
a building sewer which in turn is connected to the sewage system.
      (8)   It being the intention of the village to adopt a policy of open
trench inspection of building sewers, no building sewer shall be covered until
after it has been inspected and approved by authorized personnel of the village
or its designee.
      (9)   Any construction of sanitary sewer within the public right-of-way
which is required after completion and acceptance of the public system shall be
charged to the property owner requesting connection. The charge shall be the
actual cost of the construction plus 10% for administrative expense. Payment
shall be made as follows:
         (a)   Not less than 50% of the estimated cost shall be deposited with
the village prior to commencement of construction; and
         (b)   The balance, if any, of the costs and administrative fee shall
be paid upon completion of construction.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Storm, ground, and unpolluted water.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, or roof water to any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Storm water, ground water, and all other unpolluted drainage
(including noncontact industrial cooling water) shall be discharged into storm
drains or into a natural outlet suitable for that purpose.
   (B)   Prohibited discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive, liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, metal shavings, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, woods, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
or to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the treatment facility;
      (7)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (8)   Any industrial waste that may cause a deviation from the NPDES
permit requirements, pretreatment standards, and any other state and federal
regulations; and/or
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half,
higher than nine, or having any other corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors (traps).
      (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors (traps) shall be provided at the
expense of the property owner when liquid wastes may contain grease, oil, and
sand in excessive amounts. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the village and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction,
watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted into
place shall be gastight and watertight.
      (2)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors (traps)
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, and in continuously
efficient operation.
   (D)   Preliminary treatment.
      (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
containing or requiring any of the following shall be subject to review and
approval for acceptance by the village:
         (a)   Five-day B.O.D. greater than 300 mg/l of suspended solids;
         (b)   A chlorine demand of more than 15 mg/l;
         (c)   Having any average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily flow to the village wastewater treatment facility; and
         (d)   Total phosphorous concentration greater than 12 mg/l.
      (2)   Preliminary treatment shall be provided, at no expense to the
village as may be necessary to reduce the B.O.D. to 300 mg/l and suspended
solids to 350 mg/l or to reduce objectionable characteristics of this effluent
to within the maximum limits provided for in division (B) above or to control
the quantity and rates of discharges of the waters or wastes. On direction of
the village, a person may be required to remove, exclude, or require
pretreatment of any industrial waste in whole or in part for any reasons deemed
to be in the village's interest. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained in satisfactory and
effective operation at no expense to the village. Plans, specifications, and
any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment
facilities shall be submitted for approval to the village and no construction
of the facility shall be commenced until approvals are obtained in writing. The
village may elect to treat industrial wastes, discharged in excess of normal
domestic concentrations on a basis prescribed by written agreement and for an
established charge to cover the added cost. All the preliminary treatment or
pretreatment shall be in accordance with federal and state laws and
regulations.
   (E)   Industrial wastes. The owner of any property served by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes may be required by the village to install a
suitable control manhole or other structure in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, or
structure, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole or
structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 SYSTEM CHARGES AND RATES.
   (A)   Generally. From and after 11-1-1988, charges for sewage transmission,
treatment, disposal, and debt service to each user connected to the system
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Charges; fees.
         (a)   For each single-family residential premises or single-family
residential equivalent served by the sanitary sewage system, there shall be,
subject to revision by resolutions of the Village Council, a sewer service
charge of: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section
shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
         (b)   The fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this
section shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
for any monthly bill not paid by the twentieth day of the month in which it is
due shall also be charged.
      (2)   Adoption. For all other users of the system, and except as
otherwise provided, the village adopts a Table of Unit Factors for the village
wastewater collection and treatment system which table is in
Appendix A of this chapter. This table shall set forth and identify the user
class and all applicable factors to be multiplied by the monthly charge
established for single-family residential premise which is designated as a
residential equivalent (RE). This table may be modified or amended from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council.
      (3)   Interpretation. Rules for interpreting the Table of Unit Factors
are:
         (a)   The minimum equivalent factor for all users shall be one RE;
         (b)   Equivalent units for users not originally contained in this
table may be added from time to time by resolution of the Village Council; and
         (c)   Where multiple businesses exist at one location, the various
businesses located therein shall be considered separately in determining the
equivalent units (number of RE's) at the location, unless the owner has had
installed a water meter which measures usage for each individual unit located
there, in which case, the equivalent use shall be determined as provided in
division (A)(3)(b) above.
      (4)   Revision and modification of equivalent units.
         (a)   Review. The equivalent units of users having an equivalent unit
factor of more than one RE shall be reviewed by the village at least once each
year. Unless the equivalent unit factor of the user is changed by resolution of
the Village Council on or before the fifteenth day of the last month preceding
the commencement of the system's fiscal year, the equivalent unit factor of the
user shall remain the same as it was for the preceding fiscal year. Failure to
specifically review as provided shall not cause the factor to be omitted and
shall not be considered grounds for its discontinuance.
         (b)   Review of metered users. The equivalent unit factor for the
purpose of determining the service charge of any user having an RE factor for
any individual unit or more than one and where the user has been required
pursuant to ordinance or by agreement to install a meter to register water flow
and has installed a meter or meters which separately measure(s) the flow from
each unit within the structure, shall be reviewed and adjusted yearly to assure
the equivalent unit factor assigned to the user is compatible with use. The
formula for determining the equivalent unit factor for the users in the units
for purposes of determining the service charge for the next fiscal year shall
be as follows: average quarterly use during previous years divided by 20,200
gallons = equivalent unit factors (number of RE's).
      (5)   Appeal. A property owner having an equivalent unit factor of more
than one may, upon written request, appeal to the Village Council.
      (6)   Effective dates for application of equivalent units. Where
equivalent units are used to determine the connection, service and other
charges of a property owner, the equivalent unit which shall be used in the
calculation of the charges shall be the equivalent unit factor assigned to the
factor as of the following dates:
         (a)   For calculating a direct connection charge, the date the
property owner applies for the permit or the last day of the period during
which he or she is required by this chapter to connect to the system, whichever
comes first; and
         (b)   For calculating the operation, maintenance, and replacement
service charge, the date the property owner's available sanitary sewer becomes
operational and thereafter on the first day of the last month preceding the
commencement of the system fiscal year.
   (B)   Village use. For the reasonable cost of sewage disposal services
rendered by the system to the village and its various departments, the village
shall pay according to the amounts set forth in the Table of Unit Factors in
Appendix A of this chapter.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance surcharge. If the character of the sewage of
any user shall impose an unreasonable additional burden upon the sewage
disposal and/or transmission system of the village, then and in that event an
additional charge shall be made over and above established rates. Effluent in
excess of the maximum limitations imposed by this chapter shall be deemed prima
facie subject to surcharge. If necessary to protect the system or any part, the
village shall deny the right of any user to empty the sewage into the system.
Surcharges required by this section shall be computed as the pro-rated share of
the annual cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement,
attributable to treating the substance multiplied by the ratio of weight of
surchargeable excess of the discharged substance to the total weight of the
substance that is treated in that year. This amount shall be collected on the
basis of estimated surchargeable amounts with each periodic billing and shall
be adjusted annually to reflect actual operation, maintenance and replacement
costs. Surcharge rates shall be established by resolution of the Village
Council and the amount and necessity of surcharge may be appealed by the user
to the Village Council.
   (D)   Inspection fees. The cost of connecting private premises to the
village sewer shall not be paid from the proceeds of any bond issue or from the
revenues of the system but shall be paid by the property owners. In addition,
each premise connecting to the facilities of the system shall pay a charge for
the inspection of the connection. The charge shall be payable in cash upon
application for permit to connect the system and shall be in the amount
established by resolution of the Village Council. Each unit in a multiple
commercial premise, each living unit in a duplex, apartment, or housing project
and each mobile home space in a mobile home park shall be treated as a separate
user and a separate inspection charge shall be made for each such user.
   (E)   Connection and capital charges.
      (1)   A capital charge in an amount to be determined by resolution of the
Village Council shall be charged for each residential equivalent connecting to
the system on or after the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to the capital charge, a connection charge for the
purpose of defraying the costs of construction shall be charged to each single-
family residence or residential equivalent unit in an amount to be determined
by resolution of the Village Council for the following classifications:
         (a)   For premises served by sewers installed and "available" for
connection prior to 9-1-1988;
         (b)   For premises served by sewers installed and "available" for
connection after 9-1-1988, unless the costs for the construction are defrayed
by special assessment, in which case, the amount so established shall be paid;
and
         (c)   For premises in a multi-unit development served by sewers
constructed at the expense of the developer.
   (F)   Voluntary connections. Voluntary connections for owners of premises
not subject to mandatory hookup may be allowed subject to capacity of the
system to transport and treat the wastewater in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The owner shall pay the actual cost of all pipe, risers, stubs,
wyes, or other apparatus and the costs of all labor necessary to accomplish the
connection and in addition thereto, and shall pay all other fees and costs,
including all capital connection charges established in this chapter.
      (2)   The connection to, and use of, the system by the premise shall be
by gravity flow except by prior approval of the village.
      (3)   The surface of any disturbed right-of-way shall be returned to the
condition at least equal to that existing before any excavation was undertaken.
      (4)   The owner shall obtain prior approval from the village of all
plans, specifications, and materials to be utilized to accomplish the
connection.
      (5)   All wyes, stubs, pipe, risers, or other apparatus not owned by the
village shall, after installation and inspection, become for purposes of
operation and maintenance, the responsibility of the owner. The responsibility
of the village for operation and maintenance shall be limited to sewer mains,
manholes, lift stations, and the wastewater treatment plant located within the
village.
      (6)   Upon voluntary connection as set forth, the owner and premises
shall be subject to all ordinances, resolutions, rules, and charges relating to
use of the system then in effect and later adopted.
   (G)   Contractual rates. The foregoing provisions relating to rates shall
not be construed as prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between
the village and the users or class of users whereby the sanitary wastes of
unusual strength or character of the user or class of users may be accepted
into the system, subject to payment by the user or class of users.
   (H)   Revision of rates and charges. The rates established by this chapter
shall be reviewed at least annually and are estimated to be sufficient to
provide revenues for the payment of the operation and maintenance costs, debt
service charges, and any other charges and expenditures for the system. The
rates shall be revised from time to time as required to maintain the fiscal
integrity of the system and the same may be revised and fixed by resolution of
the Village Council as may be necessary to produce the amounts required to pay
the charges and expenditures and provide the funds necessary to maintain the
financial integrity of the system.
   (I)   Deferring charges. No free service shall be furnished to any user of
the system, and there shall be no waiver or forgiveness of charges levied
pursuant to this chapter. Any resident eligible for deferment of payment of the
fees and charges pursuant to the laws of the state shall be afforded ample
opportunity to request the deferment or partial payment. In addition, by
resolution of the Village Council, capital and connection charges may be paid
in installments upon the terms as the Council prescribes.
   (J)   Enforcement of charges.
      (1)   Nonpayment of capital and connection charges. Nonpayment of charges
shall subject the property owner to liability for the charges and penalties as
provided for a late or delayed connection.
      (2)   Nonpayment of service charge.
         (a)   Discontinuance of service. In the event a service charge
established pursuant to division (A) above remains delinquent for a period in
excess of three months, the village shall have the right to shut off and
discontinue water or sewer service to the user. The service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges, penalties and a charge for the
discontinuance of the service shall be paid. This turn-off charge shall be
established by resolution of the Village Council.
         (b)   Collection by litigation. In addition to discontinuing service
to the user, the village shall have the option of collecting all the
delinquencies and penalties due by legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
         (c)   Collection by enforcement of lien. Capital and connection
charges, permit fee and service charges for areas within the village, including
penalties which remain delinquent for a period in excess of 90 days, shall
constitute a lien on the premises served. The lien shall be perfected by the
village official in charge of the collection, by certifying annually not later
than September 1 of each year to the Tax Assessing Officer the fact and the
amount of the delinquency. The charge shall then be entered by the Tax
Assessing Officer of the village upon the next tax roll as a charge against the
premises and shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same
manner as general taxes against the premises are collected.
   (K)   From and after 7-1-1989. From and after 7-1-1989, charges for sewer
services to each premise served shall be established as follows:
      (1)   Operation, maintenance, and replacement:
         (a)   Nonmetered customer: the fees and/or penalties charged in
connection with this section shall be set by a resolution of the Village
Council on an annual basis; and
         (b)   Metered customer: the fees and/or penalties charged in
connection with this section shall be set by a resolution of the Village
Council on an annual basis.
      (2)   Debt service: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with
this section shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual
basis; and
      (3)   Division (A) above is amended to modify any of its provisions to
incorporate the above charges as may be necessary.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1989) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 FISCAL YEAR; RECORDS AND FUNDS.
   (A)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the sanitary sewage collection system
shall end on the last day of March.
   (B)   Records and accounts. The village shall keep and maintain proper books
and records and accounts separate from all other records and accounts of the
village in which shall be made full and correct entries of all transactions
relating to the sanitary sewage collection and treatment system. The village
shall cause an annual audit of the books and records and accounts of the
preceding operating year to be made by a recognized independent certified
public accountant and will supply the audit to authorized public officials upon
proper request.
   (C)   Biennial review of operations and maintenance charges. The village
shall review not less often than every two years the wastewater contribution of
users and user classes, the total costs of operation and maintenance of the
treatment works, and its approved user charge system. The village shall revise
the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the cost
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 51.10 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Protection from damage. No person shall maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with the system
or any of its components.
   (B)   Industrial use of system. Any industry or structure discharging or
desiring to discharge industrial waste to the system shall provide the village
with the following information or material:
      (1)   A written statement setting forth the nature of the enterprise, the
source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be discharged, with its
present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical, radioactive, or other
pertinent characteristics of the wastes;
      (2)   A plan map of the building, works, or complex with each outfall to
the surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural watercourse, or ground
waters noted, described, and the waste stream identified;
      (3)   Test sample and reports to the village and to the appropriate state
agencies on characteristics of wastes on a schedule, at locations and according
to methods approved by the village and the state;
      (4)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams, or other potential waste problems under the specific supervision and
control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as
properly qualified to supervise the facilities;
      (5)   Report on raw materials entering the process or support systems,
intermediate materials, final products, and waste byproducts as these factors
may pertain to waste control;
      (6)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of specific
liquid, solid, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents, or other waste;
and
      (7)   If any industrial process is to be altered as to include or negate
a process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given to the
village, subject to approval by the village and by appropriate state agencies.
   (C)   Connection of privately constructed sanitary sewer systems to the
system. Before any sanitary sewer system constructed by private, as
distinguished from public, funding, referred to as the "private sanitary
sewer," shall be permitted to connect to the system, the owner of the system,
referred to as the developer, shall do and provide the village with the
following:
      (1)   The developer's plans and specifications for construction, an
estimate of the cost of construction, and a performance bond and deposit with
the village the sum of 1% of the cost of construction to cover the cost of
hiring a registered professional engineer to review plans and specifications,
which moneys shall be placed by the village in an escrow account in the name of
the developer. Any similar charge payable by a developer for the same purpose
pursuant to
Chapter 152 shall be substituted for this provision;
      (2)   Obtain approval of the Village Council of the plans and
specifications;
      (3)   Secure all necessary permits for construction;
      (4)   Upon commencement of construction of the private sanitary sewer,
deposit with the village in the escrow account referred to in division (C)(1)
above a sum of 4% of the cost of construction to cover the anticipated cost of
inspection of construction and payment of connection charges. Any similar
charge payable by a developer for the same purpose pursuant to
Chapter 152 shall be substituted for this provision; and
      (5)   Upon completion of construction of the private sanitary sewer to
the system, upon recommendation of the village's engineer and approval of the
Village Council, the performance bond shall be released and any moneys
remaining in the developer's escrow account shall be returned. Any additional
expenses incurred by the village in assuring the village that the private
sanitary sewer is properly operating shall be deducted from any such funds or
charged directly to the developer, at the option of the village.
   (D)   Administration. The Street Commissioner or designee is charged with
the responsibility of administering the system and enforcing this chapter.
   (E)   Power and authority of inspectors.
      (1)   Duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials
and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Duly authorized employees of the village may enter at all
reasonable times in or upon private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions or practices which may be in violation
of this chapter or detrimental to the system.
      (3)   Duly authorized employees of the village shall inspect the on-site
work occurring by reason of any system permit. The person shall have the right
to issue a cease and desist order on the site upon finding a violation of the
permit or of this chapter. The order shall contain a statement of the specific
violation and the appropriate means of correcting the same and the time within
which correction shall be made.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon publication except the penal
provisions which shall take effect 20 days thereafter.
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
Type Unit Factor; Minimum to be 1.00
Type                                    Unit Factor; Minimum to be 1.00
Apartments/Mobile Homes                 1.00/each living unit
Auto Dealers and Garage                 1.00 for each 12 employees or fraction
                                        of 12
Auto Dealers and Garage, w/car wash     1.00 + 2.25 per stall
                                        1.00 for each 12 employees or fraction
Bank                                    of 12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
Bar and Bowling Alley                   1.00 plus 0.07 per seat
Commercial Barber and Beauty Shops      1.00 for 1 or 2 chairs; 0.25 for each
                                        additional chair
Home Beauty Shop                        0.25 for up to 1 chair, thereafter,
                                        same as commercial rate
Car Wash (self-serve)                   2.25 for each stall
Care and Convalescent Home              0.25 per bed
Church with Kitchen and Daycare/Nursery 2.00
Church                                  1.00
Cleaners                                1.00 plus 0.25/press
Clinics (dentist or doctors' office)    1.00 plus 0.50 for each doctor
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Department Store                        12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Drug Store                              12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Floral Shops and Greenhouse             12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
Funeral Home                            1.00
Garage, Gas Station, and the like       1.00
Hardware                                1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
                                        12; plus 0.25 for additional employees
Heating and Plumbing                    1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
                                        12; plus 0.25 for additional employees
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Industrial Shops w/domestic sewage      12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
Laundry                                 0.25 per washer
Library                                 1.00
Meat Market and Sales w/o Slaughter     1.00 plus 1.00 for 12 employees
House
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Lumber Company                          12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
Nursery School                          1.00 for 17 students and staff
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Office Buildings                        12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees per each unit
                                        1.00 for 12 employees or fraction of
Post Office                             12; plus 0.25 for additional 3
                                        employees
Public Buildings and Rental Halls       1.00
Restaurants, snack bars                 1.00 w/o seats
Restaurants, self-serve and the like    0.07 per seat
Schools                                 1.00 for each 17 students, including
                                        faculty and staff
Supermarket                             1.00 for each 12 employees
Supermarket w/Meat Market               1.00 plus 1.00
Telephone Company - public              2.00 for each 12 employees
Telephone Company - non-paying taxes    0.50 additional 3 employees
TV Shop Sales and Repair                1.00 for each 12 employees
Warehouse                               1.00 for each 12 employees; plus 0.25
                                        additional 3 employees
 
(Ord. 114, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1989)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Authority
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Water connections
   
52.04   Water mains and service lines
   
52.05   Turning water service on or off
   
52.06   Water meters
   
52.07   Rates and charges
   
52.08   Water emergency
   
52.09   MISS DIG system
   
52.10   Mandatory connection, exception; new private wells, prohibition,
continuation, abandonment
   
52.11   Geothermal heat systems
   
52.12   Fluoride rejection
   
52.13   Water supply cross connection rules
§ 52.01 AUTHORITY.
   By establishing and regulating the water supply system, the village is
exercising the authority granted to the village by General Law Village Act,
M.C.L. 62.1.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   COMMODITY CHARGE. The cost associated with providing water to the users. The
COMMODITY CHARGE is the actual budget cost of the operation, maintenance and
repair divided by the estimated number of gallons to be produced for delivery
to the users.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works, or his or her
designee.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, public or private corporation or
public agency or instrumentality.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land, building or unit connected to the
water supply system.
   READINESS TO SERVE CHARGE. The charge that covers the cost necessary to keep
the water supply system in good operating condition, other overhead costs and
is the amount of the minimum bill.
   REU. Residential equivalent unit, and is equal to 7333 gallons of metered
water usage per month. An REU is the average use of a residence as established
by recognized state and federal standards.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer for the Village of Webberville or his or her
designee.
   USER. Any person who receives water from or benefits from the water supply
system.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President for the Village of Webberville, or
his or her designee.
   WATER MAIN. That part of the water distribution system located within
easements or streets which supplies more than one water service line.
   WATER SERVICE LINES. That part of the water distribution system connecting
the water main with the premises served.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The complete water supply system of the village,
including all water mains, connections, pipes, meters, hydrants, wells, well
houses, pumps, water storage facilities, transmission lines, water service
lines and all water treatment facilities, plants, works, instrumentalities and
properties used or useful in obtaining a water supply, treating and
distributing the same for domestic, commercial, industrial, institutional and/
or fire protection purposes, and all other appurtenances thereto, including all
easements, rights and land for such easements, and including all extensions and
improvements thereto which may be acquired or constructed on behalf of current
and future users of the water supply system.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 52.03 WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Applications for water connections shall be made to the village on forms
prescribed and furnished by the village. Water connections and water meters
shall be installed in accordance with rules and regulations of the village and
upon payment of the required connection fee and meter installation fee. All
meters shall be installed by a licensed plumbing contractor chosen by the
homeowner and have a final inspection done by the Department of Public Works
and shall be the property of the village. Connection fees shall not be less
than the cost of materials, installation and overhead attributable to such
installations. Every user connected to the water supply system, whether such
user is located inside or outside of the village, shall be subject to the
ordinances, rules and regulations of the village, which shall be available for
inspection at the Village Clerk's office.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 52.04 WATER MAINS AND SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The village is responsible for all water mains and water service lines
up to the water shut-off box. The user is responsible for maintenance of the
water service line from the shut-off box to the building as well as all inside
plumbing. The village shall furnish the meter and yoke, billing the same to the
property owner on initial installation and then maintaining the same at the
village’s expense. In no case shall water service lines be allowed to leak more
than 24 hours without repair.
   (B)   In the case of a line leaking after 24 hours and the property owner
being notified, the village shall terminate the water supply by shutting the
same off at the water shut-off box. Property owners or agents shall be liable
for penalties as contained in §
10.99.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 52.05 TURNING WATER SERVICE ON OR OFF.
   No person, other than an authorized employee of the village, shall turn on
or off any water service, unless written authorization is provided by the
village.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Requirement for installation. All premises using water shall be
metered, except as otherwise provided by Code. No person without permission of
the village shall break or injure the seal of, or change the location of, alter
or interfere in any way with, any water meter, and shall call the village
immediately for re-inspection upon completion of all work done to any meter. On
all new installations there shall be a shut-off on each side of the meter for
the purpose of testing, inspecting and replacement of the water meter.
   (B)   Access to meters. The Department shall have the right to shut off the
supply of water to any premises where the Department is not able to obtain
access to the meter. Any qualified employee of the Department shall at all
reasonable hours have the right to enter the premises where such meters are
installed for the purpose of reading, testing, removing, or inspecting the same
and no person shall hinder, obstruct, or interfere with such employee in the
lawful discharge of his or her duties in relation to the care and maintenance
of such water meter.
   (C)   Shut-offs required for each unit. In the case of multiple family
living houses, each unit shall be equipped with a shut-off valve for the
purpose of discontinuing water/sewer service if the bill to the village is not
paid. If no such arrangement is provided, then the property owner is
responsible for all delinquent bills regardless of contracts with the tenant.
The village is responsible for providing service and has the right to
discontinue such service. If no such provision is provided by the owner of the
property, then he or she becomes the responsible party.
   (D)   Reimbursement for damage. Any damage which a meter may sustain
resulting from carelessness of the owner, agent, or tenant or from neglect of
either of them to properly secure and protect the meter, as well as any damage
which may be wrought by frost, hot water, or steam from a boiler, shall be paid
by the owner of the property to the village on presentation of a bill therefor,
and in cases where the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off and shall
not be turned on until all charges have been paid to the village.
   (E)   Meter failure. If any meter shall fail to register properly, the
village shall estimate the consumption and bill accordingly.
   (F)   Inaccurate meters. A user may require that the meter be tested. If the
meter is found accurate, a charge equal to the amount of staff time (pay plus
benefit cost), plus equipment rental, shall be billed for the testing process.
If the meter is found defective, it shall be repaired or an accurate meter
installed and no charge shall be made.
   (G)   Accuracy required. A meter shall be considered accurate if, when
tested, it registers not to exceed 2% more to 2% less than the actual quantity
of water passing through it. If a meter registers in excess of 2% more than the
actual quantity of water passing through it, it shall be considered "fast" to
that extent. If a meter registers in excess of 2% less than the actual quantity
of water passing through it, it shall be considered "slow" to that extent.
   (H)   Bill adjustment. If a meter has been tested at the request of user and
shall have been determined to register "fast", the village shall credit the
user with a sum equal to the percent "fast" multiplied by the amount of all
bills incurred by said user within the three months prior to the test. If a
meter so tested is determined to be "slow", the village may collect from the
user a sum equal to the percent "slow" multiplied by the amount of all bills
incurred by the user for the prior three months. When the Department on its own
initiative makes a test of a water meter, it shall be done without cost to the
user, other than his or her paying the amount due the village for water used by
him or her as above provided, if the meter is found to be "slow".
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In general. The Village Council shall establish, by resolution, rates
and charges for services of the water supply system. The rates and charges set
by the Village Council shall take into consideration all aspects of the
operation of the system including administration, operation, maintenance, debt
service, replacement and depreciation.
   (B)   No free service. No free water service shall be furnished to any
person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to a public agency or
instrumentality.
   (C)   Contracts for service and rates and charges for service outside of the
village; franchise contracts; outside village service.  
      (1)   The village may enter into contracts with certain townships whereby
the village receives consideration in exchange for providing certain capital
costs, and other indirect costs, of providing service to users of the water
supply system located in those townships. Rates and charges billed for use by
the user of those townships shall be in accordance with an applicable contract.
      (2)   In the event a nonresident is served by the water supply system and
whose premises is not located within an Act 425 or Franchise Contract area, the
rates charged for readiness to serve charge and commodity usage shall be
multiplied by two times for residential service.
   (D)   Payment of charges by village, exception. The village shall pay for
all water used by it at the rates established by ordinance. The water used
through a fire hydrant by the village is hereby deemed to be a public benefit
and there shall be no charge for service. Charges against the village shall be
payable in monthly installments from current funds of the village.
   (E)   Illegal disconnection, connection or tampering with a water meter. For
illegally disconnecting, connecting or tampering with a water meter, the
property owner shall be charged two times the cost of the last monthly billing.
No service shall be provided until such bill is paid in full. If not paid, such
cost shall be added to the property taxes and collected as delinquent.
   (F)   Fee for water turn-off and turn-on. If service is discontinued, a fee,
as established by Council, shall be charged to turn the utilities off and back
on.
   (G)   Final readings. At least 24 hours notice shall be given to the village
for a final notice reading on a property. If such time limit cannot be given, a
fee, as established by Council, shall be made to perform the work on an
emergency basis.
   (H)   Contracts for service. No user shall receive service from the water
supply system without first completing a contract application and providing
evidence of ownership of the property to be served or, if the user rents or
leases the property being served, until providing sufficient deposit with the
village to be retained by the village until the renter leaves the property
being served. No utility service will be activated without a signed contract,
and no billings shall be made to "occupant" or any person other than the owner
of the property being served, or a tenant who has complied with the
requirements of this section, or such other person as the Village President
approves.
   (I)   Billing cycle; penalty; collection. The Director shall have charge of
the reading of all meters and shall have all meters read at least quarterly.
Bills for water service shall be due and payable when rendered. There shall be
added to all bills not paid on or before the twentieth day of the month a
penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill. The Treasurer shall be responsible
for collecting all charges and crediting the proper account.
   (J)   Non-payment of bills. All bills not paid shall result in the
termination of water service to the premises. No user who has had his or her
water shut off shall reactivate his or her service by their own action. The
village may disable the service to prevent future reactivation.
   (K)   Liens.  
      (1)   By Section 21 of Act 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended, and
by the terms of this chapter, the rates and charges for services furnished by
the water supply system shall be liens on the property served. The village
shall certify those rates and charges delinquent for six months or more to the
Village Tax Assessing Officer, who shall enter the amount of the delinquent
rates and charges on the tax roll against the premises to which the service was
rendered, and who shall collect the rates and charges and enforce the lien in
the same manner as provided for the collection of ad valorem property taxes
assessed upon the same roll and the enforcement of the lien for taxes.
      (2)   For premises equipped with a separate water shut-off, in all cases
where a tenant represents to the village, by filing an affidavit evidencing the
legal execution of a lease containing a provision that the lessor shall not be
liable henceforth for payment of water or sewage system bills, then the tenant
shall pay to the village a deposit as set by resolution of the Village Council
from time to time as security for payment of future rates and charges. If the
tenant fails to pay rates and charges the delinquent rates and charges shall
not become a lien against the premises. The village shall, however, cease to
provide water service to the tenant's premises until the tenant pays the
delinquent charges in full.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 WATER EMERGENCY.
   The Village President may regulate, limit or prohibit the use of water for
any purpose. Such regulations shall restrict less essential water uses to the
extent deemed necessary to assure an adequate supply for essential domestic and
commercial needs and for fire-fighting. No such regulation, limitation or
prohibition shall be effective until 24 hours after the publication thereof in
a newspaper of general circulation in the village. Any person violating such
rule or regulation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 MISS DIG SYSTEM.
   Any person wishing to perform work on a connection to the water supply
system shall notify the MISS DIG at least 72 hours before performing the work,
and the Department at least 24 hours before performing the work.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.10 MANDATORY CONNECTION, EXCEPTION; NEW PRIVATE WELLS, PROHIBITION,
CONTINUATION, ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
52.10(B), any property or structure in or on which water is used or consumed
and which has village water available to it shall be connected to the village
water supply system. Such connection shall be made within 90 days of written
notice from the village to do so. For purposes of this §
52.10, village water shall be considered available if the village water supply
system is located within 320 feet of the nearest property line of said
property.
   (B)   The installation of new private wells is prohibited, except for
properties that do not have village water available. A private well existing on
the date of the adoption of this §
52.10 may continue to be used until it is no longer operable, subject to §
52.10(C). A private well that has been disconnected from any structure on the
property that is still operable shall be used solely for outdoor purposes only.
A private well that is disconnected from a structure and that is still in
service shall be subject to inspection as part of the village's cross-
connection program.
   (C)   When a private well is no longer operable, its use shall be
discontinued and the well disconnected, unless it is repaired within 45 days
from the date that it becomes inoperable. A private well that is inoperable
and/or unable to be repaired shall be properly abandoned within 45 days of its
inoperability in accordance with the requirements of the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources - Environmental. Proof of the abandonment shall be filed with
the Ingham County Health Department and the village’s Department of Public
Works which shall inspect the well to confirm its proper abandonment.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 GEOTHERMAL HEAT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Geothermal heat pumps. It is recognized that residential buildings in
the village may be constructed, or be retrofitted with geothermal heat pumps.
It is recognized that these climate control systems use substantial amounts of
water. It is also recognized that this water, which for the purposes of this
chapter shall be identified as sending water, can cause excess wetness or
flooding on nearby properties, resulting in undesirable conditions. It is
further recognized that if sending water mixes with other water, which for the
purpose of this chapter shall be identified as receiving water, it can have a
potentially detrimental impact on the ecosystem in and around the receiving
waters, resulting in undesirable conditions.
   (B)   Drainage. Owners of buildings in the village equipped with geothermal
heat pump systems must install a closed loop system that will continuously
process (heated or cooled) sending water and circulate it through the enclosed
or sealed heat pump system, with no discharge of returning water out of the
heat pump.
   (C)   Discharge of water. No sending water from a geothermal heat pump
system shall be directly or indirectly discharged out of the closed loop
system.
   (D)   Liability. The owner of a geothermal heat pump system shall be fully
responsible for the proper operation and for the maintenance of the geothermal
heat pump system, and shall be liable for any damage caused by any discharge of
sending water from the system.
   (E)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction and punishable by a fine commensurate with the amount or amounts
established by the Village Council, as set forth in the Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 211, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12 FLUORIDE REJECTION.
   (A)   The village, in accordance with the statutes of the state, M.C.L.A. §
333.12721, hereby rejects the addition of fluoride into the public water supply
of the village.
   (B)   This section shall become effective ten days from the passage date
thereof.
(Ord. 52, passed 4-9-1973)
§ 52.13 WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTION RULES.
   (A)   The village adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection
Rules of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality being R 325.11401 to
R 325.11407 of Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   It is the duty of the village to cause inspections to be made of all
the properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with
the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
repeat inspections are based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the village and as approved by the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality.
   (C)   The representative of the village shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees, or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems of such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross connection.
   (D)   The village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this ordinance exist and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property compliance with the provisions of
this ordinance.
   (E)   That all testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at
the time of installation or relocation and after any repair. Subsequent testing
of devices shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the Village of
Webberville and in accordance with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. Only individuals that hold a valid Michigan plumbing license and
have successfully passed and approved backflow testing class shall perform such
testing. Each tester shall also be approved by the Village of Webberville.
Individuals performing assembly testing shall certify the results of his or her
testing.
   (F)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the State and village plumbing code. Any water
outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not
supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
 
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
 
   (G)   This section does not supersede the state plumbing code but is
supplementary to it.
   (H)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this section or any written order of the village's, in pursuance thereof,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200 for each violation.
Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this act is committed
shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of this
section.
(Ord. 220, passed 3-11-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.02   Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages adopted
   
70.03   Parallel parking
   
70.04   U-turns
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Code, amendments, and revisions adopted. The Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, and all future
amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code when they are effective
in this state are incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in Code. References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL
AUTHORITIES shall mean the village.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The Village Clerk shall publish this section
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a complete
copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the Clerk for
inspection.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall take effect immediately upon
publication.
(Ord. 198, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR CITIES, TOWNSHIPS, AND VILLAGES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships, and Villages, as promulgated by the Director of the
Michigan Department of State Police, pursuant to the Administrative Procedures
Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 through 24.328,
and made effective 10-30-2002, and all future amendments and revisions to the
Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and effective in this state are
incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in Code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Villages to a GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall mean the village.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The Village Clerk shall publish this section
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and
Villages and the fact that a complete copy of the code is available to the
public at the office of the Clerk for inspection.
   (D)   Traffic-control orders. All traffic-control orders that have been
previously adopted by the Village Council shall remain in effect.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect immediately upon
publication.
(Ord. 197, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Where parallel parking is permitted, a person shall not stand or park a
vehicle other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement, and with the right-hand wheel of the
vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway or, if none, to the
edge of the shoulder.
(Ord. 126, passed 7-1-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 U-TURNS.
   (A)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not make a u-turn on the public
streets and highways of the village.
   (B)   When authorized signs are erected indicating that u-turns are not
permitted, a driver of a motor vehicle shall not disobey the directions of the
sign.
(Ord. 124, passed 7-1-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
   (B)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Village are adopted by reference.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
70.03: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall
be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
70.04: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall
be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of
Chapter 71, Schedule I, shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   First offense. A verbal warning;
      (2)   Second offense. A written warning to the offending person or
parent, guardian, or custodian, if the person is a minor;
      (3)   Third offense. The person and the parent, guardian, or custodian,
if the person is a minor, shall be responsible for a civil infraction as
provided in §
10.99, with a maximum penalty to be set by a resolution of the Village Council
on an annual basis; and
      (4)   Fourth offense. The person and the parent, guardian, or custodian,
if the person is a minor, shall be responsible for a civil infraction as
provided in §
10.99, with a maximum penalty set by resolution of the Village Council on an
annual basis.
   (F)   Under
Chapter 72, Schedule I, the following fines are hereby designated for parking
violations:
      (1)   Overtime, two-hour zone and 15-minute zone, the fees and/or
penalties charged in connection with this schedule shall be set by a resolution
of the Village Council on an annual basis;
      (2)   Parking in no-parking zone, the fees and/or penalties charged in
connection with this schedule shall be set by a resolution of the Village
Council on an annual basis;
      (3)   Unauthorized parking in a restricted parking area, the fees and/or
penalties charged in connection with this schedule shall be set by a resolution
of the Village Council on an annual basis;
      (4)   Double parking, the fees and/or penalties charged in connection
with this schedule shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an
annual basis; and
      (5)   Improper parking, the fees and/or penalties charged in connection
with this schedule shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an
annual basis.
(Ord. 65, passed 10-2-1978; Ord. 66, passed 10-16-1978; Ord. 124, passed 7-1-
1991; Ord. 126, passed 7-1-1991; Ord. 174, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 195, passed
1-8-2007; Ord. 197, passed 8-6-2007; Ord. 198, passed 8-6-2007)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Use of skateboards, bicycles, roller skates, roller blades, or scooters
   
II.   Operation of commercial vehicles, trucks, and truck tractors
   
III.   Through streets
   
IV.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. USE OF SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES, OR
SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No person shall use a skateboard, bicycle, roller skates, roller
blades, or scooters, whether self-propelled or motorized, for any purpose on
any public sidewalk along Main Street between Cherry Street and Chestnut Street
on the east side and between Cherry Street and the south side of ingress of
parking lot on the west side and Grand River Avenue between Howard Street and
Clark Street in the village.
   (B)   No person shall use a skateboard, bicycle, roller skates, roller
blades, or scooters, whether self-propelled or motorized, for any purpose on or
in any parking lot leased or owned by the village or Downtown Development
Authority (DDA).
   (C)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A device propelled by human power upon which a person may ride,
having either two or three wheels in tandem or tricycle arrangement, all of
which are over 14 inches in diameter, Michigan Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. § 257.4.
      SKATEBOARD. Coasters and similar devices.
   (D)   No person shall use a skateboard, bicycle, roller skates, roller
blades, or scooter, whether self-propelled or motorized, on the private
property of another person which is posted with signs prohibiting the use
without first obtaining and carrying the written consent of the owner of the
property. Failure of a person who has been using a skateboard, bicycle, roller
skates, roller blades, or scooters, whether self-propelled or motorized, on
posted private property to produce written permission on the request of a
police officer shall constitute prima facie evidence that the person is in
violation of this division (D).
   (E)   The village shall erect appropriate signs which designate when and
where skateboards, bicycles, roller skates, roller blades, or scooters, whether
self-propelled or motorized, are prohibited.
   (F)   No parent, guardian, or other person having charge of, custody, or
control of any minor under the age of 18 shall permit that minor to violate the
provisions of this schedule. A written warning or citation that a minor has
violated this schedule shall be prima facie evidence that the minor's parent,
guardian, or custodian has failed to exercise reasonable parental control.
   (G)   This schedule shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 174, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 195, passed 1-8-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES, TRUCKS, AND TRUCK TRACTORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. All motor vehicles used for the transportation of
passengers for hire, or constructed or used for transportation of goods, wares,
or merchandise and all motor vehicles designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load either independently or
any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property.
      TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   (B)   The operation of commercial vehicles, trucks, and truck tractors, over
10,000 pounds gross weight, shall be prohibited on all streets located in the
village, except the following, or unless exempted under to divisions (D) and
(E) below:
      (1)   Grand River Avenue;
      (2)   Gramer Road north from Grand River to the village limits; and
      (3)   Elm Road south from Grand River to the village limits.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, as the chief traffic engineer, shall cause to be
posted any traffic-control devices as are sufficient to adequately notify the
public of these restrictions.
   (D)   These restrictions shall not apply under the following circumstances:
      (1)   To commercial vehicles and trucks making deliveries in the ordinary
course of business to individuals or businesses located in the village by the
most direct route; and
      (2)   To any commercial vehicles, trucks, or truck tractors operating
pursuant to a contract with or on behalf of the village.
   (E)   A resident of the village who owns a commercial vehicle, truck
tractor, or truck in excess of the posted weight may operate that vehicle on
prohibited streets, after first obtaining a permit to do so from the Chief of
Police. The application for this permit shall be on a form prepared by the
Chief of Police and shall specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and
load to be operated or moved and the particular streets upon which the permit
to operate is requested. Permits shall be issued by the Chief of Police only
upon a showing by the applicant of good cause. The permit shall specify the
trip or trips and the date or dates for which it is to be valid and the
restrictions or conditions of operation of the vehicle or vehicles as necessary
to protect the safety of the public and ensure against undue damage to any road
foundation, surfaces, structures, or installations and may require a reasonable
inspection fee or other security as the Village Council may establish by
resolution and as may be considered necessary to compensate for damages caused
by the movement. Every permit issued shall expire at the end of one year and
must be renewed annually.
   (F)   A person who violates this schedule, including any person who violates
any restrictions contained in any permit, shall be responsible for a civil
infraction.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-4-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Grand River Avenue shall be and is hereby designated as a through
street within the limits of the village from Elm Road to the east village
limits.
   (B)   This schedule shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 86, passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The basic speed limit for residential streets within the village
limits shall be 25 mph unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   The speed limit on Grand River Avenue will be: 40 mph from the west
village limits to Elm Road; 30 mph from Elm Road to Detroit Street; and 40 mph
from Detroit Street to the east village limits. This schedule covers all
eastbound and all westbound traffic on Grand River Avenue within the village.
   (C)   The speed limit on Elm Road from the south village limits going north
to Grand River will be 35 mph. This applies to northbound traffic only.
   (D)   The speed limit on Gramer Road from the south village limits to the
north village limits will be 35 mph.
   (E)   The speed limit on Pardee Road from the west village limits to Cramer
Road (the east village limits) will be 35 mph.
(Ord. 57, passed 2-12-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Parking Lots #1 and #2
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle on any village street
between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle, for more than one
hour at any time, on the north and south shoulders of Grand River Avenue from
Elm Road to the west village limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle, at any time, on any
public property, street right-of-way, including the entire area between the
street and sidewalk, or any portion thereof not specifically designated for the
parking of motor vehicles or where the parking of motor vehicles is prohibited
by suitable signs.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle, at any time, on any
private property, or portion thereof, specifically restricted to private
parking or limited parking by the installation of suitable signs. The wording
of all the signs and the placement thereof shall be approved in advance by the
D.P.W. Supervisor or his or her designated representative.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park, use, or stop any motor vehicle in Parking Lots #1 and
#2 for greater than 24 hours.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park any motor vehicle on North Main Street in front of the
Webberville Elementary School property between 7:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. and 2:30
p.m. and 3:30 p.m. on school days.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle in excess of two
continuous hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on the following
streets: Grand River Avenue between South Howard and Clark Streets, and Main
Street from Cherry Street to Grand River Avenue.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle in excess of four
continuous hours between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 3:00 a.m. in front of the
following premises: 114 North Main Street, 124 North Main Street, 126 North
Main Street, and 127 North Main Street.
   (I)   Any public parking space designated for use by handicapped persons by
appropriate signs is at all times reserved exclusively for use by those persons
or for use by any persons assisting any handicapped persons.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation to park or leave stopped any motor vehicle between the hours of
2:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, while school is in session, on
the west shoulder of North Main Street from the intersection of North Main
Street and Cherry Street proceeding north 165 feet on North Main Street.
   (K)   For the purposes of facilitating the enforcement of this schedule,
pursuant to Public Act 154 of 1968, § 8395, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8395, the
Parking Violations Bureau is hereby created.
   (L)   The Bureau may accept pleas of guilty to parking violations and assess
the fines specified in §
70.99(F).
   (M)   The Village Clerk shall be the Director of the Bureau and, together
with the Deputy Village Clerk, shall be authorized to collect all fines
assessed in §
70.99(F), which shall be payable during normal working hours at the village
office.
   (N)   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to whom a parking
violation has been issued desiring to enter a plea of not guilty to that
violation may do so before the nearest available magistrate and shall be
entitled to trial under the rules and procedure of the District Court for the
trial of a violation of a village ordinance.
   (O)   The Director of Public Safety is authorized to seek a warrant for the
arrest of any person failing to pay any fine provided in §
70.99(F) or enter a plea of not guilty within ten days of the occurrence of any
violation provided herein.
(Ord. 65, passed 10-2-1978; Ord. 66, passed 10-16-1978; Ord. 78, passed 10-1-
1979; Ord. 88, passed 1-4-1982; Ord. 108, passed 9-1-1987; Ord. 139, passed 11-
5-1995; Ord. 160, passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 162, passed 5-7-2001; Ord. 185, passed
8-16-2004; Ord. 225, passed 7-9-2013) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING LOTS #1 AND #2.
   (A)   The village establishes Parking Lot #1, consisting of the property
located on the west side of South Main more particularly described as: “Lot 26
Village of Webberville.”
   (B)   The village establishes Parking Lot #2, consisting of the property
located on the east side of North Main more particularly described as: “N 42 FT
OF LOT 132, & N 52 FT OF LOT 133 MCPHERSON’S PLAT, VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE.
ALSO, COMM AT NW COR LOT 133, MCPHERSON’S PLAT, VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE, -N 28
FT, -E 132 FT, -S 28 FT, -W 132 FT TO POB, VILLAGE OF WEBBERVILLE,” and also
“Part of a parcel in the Village of Webberville, Ingham County, MI commencing
at the North West corner of Lot 133 of McPherson’s Plat Village of Webberville,
thence North 28 feet to the point of beginning of the land to be described,
thence North 38 feet, East 132 feet, South 38 feet, West 132 feet to the point
of beginning.”
   (C)   Each parking lot shall be considered public property in the village
and subject to the enforcement of all provisions of the Michigan Motor Vehicle
Code and village ordinances applicable to that property.
   (D)   Each parking lot shall be closed to all persons except for the purpose
of parking motor vehicles for the times designated by the posting of signs or
other approved markings consistent with the village parking ordinance.
   (E)   No person or persons may loiter, congregate, or assemble at any time
in any parking lot so as to interfere with the free flow of vehicle traffic,
the peace and quiet of individuals lawfully using the parking lot, or so as to
disturb the peace and quiet of any adjoining property owner.
   (F)   Any violation of divisions (D) and (E) above shall constitute a civil
infraction and be punishable as other municipal and civil infractions in the
village.
(Ord. 159, passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 225, passed 7-9-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   JUNK AND JUNK AUTOMOBILES
         
94.   HAZARDOUS WASTE
         
95.   ADDRESS NUMBERS
         
96.   RENTAL INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
90.01   International Fire Code adopted
§ 90.01 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Village Clerk, marked and designated as the International Fire Code,
including all appendix chapters as published by the International Code Council,
is adopted as the code of the village for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards, arising from
the storage, handling, and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in issuance of permits for
hazardous uses or operations; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions, and terms of the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, published
by the International Code Council, on file in the office of the village
referred to, adopted, and made a part as if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   The following sections are revised.
      (1)   Section 101.1. Title. “These regulations shall be known as the Fire
Code of the Village of Webberville, referred to as “this code”.”
      (2)   Section 109.3. Violation penalties. “Persons who shall violate a
provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements or
who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a Municipal
Civil Infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00. Each day that
a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.”
      (3)   Section 111.4. Failure to comply. “Any person who shall continue
any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00, for
each day such work continues.”
   (C)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decisions shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The Village
of Webberville declares that it would have passed this section, and each
section, subsection, clause, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared unconstitutional.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is directed to cause this section to be published.
   (E)   This section, and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements,
orders, and matters established and adopted, shall take effect and be in full
force and effect immediately from and after the date of its publication.
(Ord. 177, passed 2-17-2003; Ord. § 90.01, passed 1-10-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
 
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Weeds
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 WEEDS.
   (A)   All noxious weeds, on both public and private lands, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful to permit noxious weeds to
remain in the village.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Shall include Canada Thistle (Circuim Arvense), Dodders
(any species of Cuscuta), Mustards (Charlock, Black Mustard, and Indian
Mustard, species of Brassica and Simapis), Wild Carrot (Daucus Carota),
Bindweed (Convolvulus Arvensis), Perennial Sowthistle (Sonchus Arvensis), Hoary
Alyssum (Berteroa Incana), Ragweed (Ambrosia Elatior), and Poison Ivy (Rhus
Toxicodendron), Poison Sumac (Toxicodendron Vernix) or other plants which in
the opinion of the Village Council is regarded as a common nuisance.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer is appointed the commissioner of noxious
weeds and is authorized to inspect and examine any weeds in the village to
determine whether or not they are noxious. Upon discovering that any such weeds
are noxious and any time they exceed eight inches in height, the Commissioner
shall notify the owner or occupant of the premises of the violation by affixing
a notice on or as near as possible to the front door of the property.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any land upon which
the noxious weeds exist to have the same cut or eradicated within five days of
notice by the Commissioner. It shall be the duty of the Department of Public
Works to eradicate or cut all noxious weeds from land owned by the village.
   (E)   Where the owner or occupant of the premises concerned does not
properly cut or eradicate noxious weeds within five days after notice, or where
the owner or occupant of the premises cannot be located, the Department of
Public Works or its designee is hereby authorized to enter the property and cut
or eradicate the noxious weeds. Any expense incurred in the destruction shall
be paid by the owner or owners of the property, and in the event of nonpayment
thereof the village shall have a lien against the property for the expense,
which lien shall be enforceable in the manner provided by law for the
enforcement of mechanics’ liens.
   (F)   This section will take effect 30 days from date of enactment.
(Ord. 37, passed 5-6-1963; Ord. 63, passed 10-2-1978; Ord. 90, passed 2-1-1982;
Ord. 166, passed 7-16-2001; Ord. 210, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference
   Weeds, see M.C.L.A. §§ 247.61 et seq.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of §
91.01 shall be subject to a fine set by a resolution of the Village Council on
an annual basis. If the Department of Public Works is unable to enter the
property and cut or eradicate the noxious weeds as referenced in §
91.01(E), a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day noxious
weeds remain on the premises more than five days after notice has been given in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 37, passed 5-6-1963; Ord. 63, passed 10-2-1978; Ord. 210, passed 6-7-
2010)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Construction, repair, and maintenance of sidewalks
   
92.02   Use of sidewalks and other public rights-of-way
Removal of Snow and Ice from Public Sidewalks
   
92.15   Snow removal required
   
92.16   Neglect to remove snow; procedure
   
92.17   Failure to pay; special assessment; lien
   
92.18   Costs for removal of snow and ice
   
92.19   Hardship clause
   
92.20   Municipal civil infraction
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Control. The Council shall have the exclusive control of all sidewalks
in the public streets and alleys of the village.
   (B)   Owners and occupants. The owner(s) or occupant(s) of any lot(s) or
premises shall be required to build, rebuild, and maintain sidewalks in the
public streets adjacent to or abutting upon the lot(s) or premises, to keep the
same in repair at all times, to remove all snow and ice, and to keep the same
free from obstructions, encroachments, encumbrances, filth, and other
nuisances.
   (C)   Construction. Whenever the Council shall determine that a sidewalk in
the public streets or alleys of the village needs to be constructed or rebuilt,
or is in need of repair, it shall, by resolution, establish the specifications
and dimensions of the work required to be performed, the manner and method in
which the same shall be done, and describe the property adjacent to or abutting
upon the sidewalk(s). When construction is commenced on vacant property, the
property owner shall complete construction of the sidewalks prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the village.
   (D)   Resolution and notice. Upon the adoption of a resolution by the
Council as provided in division (C) above, the Clerk shall cause a copy of the
same to be served upon the owner(s) and occupant(s) of the property described
therein, in person or by certified mail, together with a notice requiring the
work specified therein to be completed within 15 days and advising the owner(s)
or occupant(s) that the Village Council may cause any work specified in the
resolution to be done thereafter and assess the costs and expenses thereof to
be levied as a special assessment against the lot(s) or premises as provided in
division (E) below.
   (E)   Failure. If the owner(s) or occupant(s) of any lot(s) or premises
shall fail to construct, rebuild, or repair any particular sidewalk(s), as
specified in the terms of any resolution adopted pursuant to division (C)
above, or shall fail to keep the same in repair, or remove the snow, ice, and
filth, or to remove and keep the same free from obstructions, encroachments,
encumbrances, or other nuisances, or shall fail to perform any other duty
required by the Council in respect to the sidewalk(s), the Council may cause
the same to be done and the amount of all expenses incurred and not paid by the
village pursuant to division (F) below, together with a penalty of 10% in
addition thereto, to be levied by it as a special tax or assessment upon the
lot(s) or premises adjacent to and abutting upon the sidewalk(s), which special
assessment shall be subject to review after proper notice has been given as in
all other cases of special assessments as provided in Public Act 4 of
1974,being M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1, 67.25, 68.31 through 68.35, 69.6, 69.21 through
69.23, 69.25, 71.3, and 71.4; and the assessment when confirmed shall be a lien
upon the lot(s) or premises the same as other special assessments, and the
Council shall order the assessor of the village to spread the amount, together
with the penalty, upon the roll as a special assessment upon the lot(s) or
premises, and the same shall be collected in the same manner as other village
taxes; or the village may collect the amount, together with the penalty
aforesaid, from the owner or occupant of the premises in a civil suit, together
with costs of suit.
   (F)   Expense of sidewalks and time frame.
      (1)   Responsibility for costs. The division of the sidewalk construction
costs shall be as follows.
         (a)   For existing sidewalks being repaired/replaced or sidewalks
being constructed on property with existing residential or commercial
buildings, the village shall assume 50% of the cost and the remaining 50% shall
be the responsibility of the individual property owner.
         (b)   In the case of sidewalk construction on vacant property, the
property owner is responsible for 100% of the construction costs for the new
sidewalks, regardless of the zoning.
      (2)   Time extensions. There shall be no time extension for repair or
replacement of existing sidewalks. Time extensions for construction of new
sidewalks on vacant property shall be granted by the village in the form of an
application for a variance from the Village Council, with applicable fees and
costs. Any variance granted which allows a time extension of more than 120 days
will require a recordation of a document evidencing the time frame to complete
construction at the County Register of Deeds. The Village Attorney shall draft
the document for recording at the property owner's expense. A copy of the
document shall be provided to the village within ten business days of the
granting of the variance or the variance will be null and void.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall take effect immediately upon
publication.
(Ord. 91, passed 9-13-1982; Ord. 145, passed 8-4-1997) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 USE OF SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation shall permit
any business to be conducted on any sidewalk or public right-of-way between the
sidewalk and any village street without having first obtained a permit to do so
from the Village President or his or her designated representative.
   (B)   No person occupying or owning any commercial establishment shall
permit to be placed upon the sidewalk adjacent thereto any commercial sign,
display, merchandise, nor perform any services including the repair and
maintenance of any automobiles, on any such sidewalk or in the area between the
sidewalk and any village street without having first obtained a permit to do so
from the Village President or his or her designated representative.
   (C)   This section shall become effective 20 days after publication.
(Ord. 94, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
92.99
REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15 SNOW REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   The occupant of any premises in the village, which includes any house,
store, building, or lot, upon which there is located a public sidewalk, shall
remove or cause to be removed from the sidewalk ice and snow subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   All snow and ice shall be removed within 24 hours after it has ceased
if the accumulation is less than four inches.
   (B)   All the snow and ice shall be removed within 48 hours after it has
ceased if the accumulation is more than four inches.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 NEGLECT TO REMOVE SNOW; PROCEDURE.
   Should any owner or occupant of any premises subject to this subchapter
neglect or refuse to remove the snow and ice from the public sidewalk as
provided in §
92.15, the Village President or designee shall remove, or cause to be removed,
all the snow and ice at the owner's expense, which charge shall constitute a
special assessment and payable as provided in §
92.17.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 92.17 FAILURE TO PAY; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; LIEN.
   Should the owner or occupant of any premises subject to this Act fail or
refuse to pay the charges incurred by the village for the removal of the snow
or ice from the public sidewalk, within 30 days from the date of invoicing, the
amount due, together with a penalty of 10%, shall constitute and be levied as a
special assessment on the benefitted premises and collected by the Village
Treasurer in the same manner as other property taxes and assessments are
collected in the village.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 92.18 COSTS FOR REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The Village Council shall establish the charge for cost of removal of snow
or ice from premises subject to this subchapter by resolution, which rate shall
be used to formulate the charges subject to an assessment under §
92.17.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 92.19 HARDSHIP CLAUSE.
   A property owner of any premises subject to this subchapter, unable to
remove snow or ice due to a disability, physical illness, or age, may avoid the
assessment under §
92.17 by submitting to the Village Clerk evidence that a contract for the
removal of snow or ice has been obtained and is in place. Under these
circumstances, any contractor providing the service automatically consents to
the payment of any charges subject to the assessment under §
92.17 in the event the contractor fails to remove the snow or ice.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 92.20 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person failing to remove any snow or ice as provided in §
92.15, including any contractor assuming the responsibility under §
92.19, shall also be responsible for a municipal civil infraction which shall
be issued, processed, and subject to the same penalties as other municipal
civil infractions in the village.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section
92.01.
      (1)   The words MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION mean an act or omission that
is prohibited by §
92.01 or any other ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under §
92.01 or other ordinance, and for which civil sanctions, including, without
limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs, may be ordered, as authorized
by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq., as
amended. A municipal civil infraction is not a lesser included offense of a
violation of §
92.01 that is a criminal offense.
      (2)   Unless a violation of §
92.01 is specifically designated a misdemeanor, then the violation shall be a
municipal civil infraction.
      (3)   The sanction for a municipal civil infraction violation shall be a
civil fine in the amount as provided by §
92.01, plus costs, damages, expenses, equitable relief, and other sanctions, as
authorized under Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et
seq., as amended, and other applicable law.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in §
92.01: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall
be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
         (b)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by
a person of any requirement or provision of §
92.01. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision:
            1.   Committed by a person within a six-month period (unless some
other period is specifically provided by this section); and
            2.   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
         (c)   Unless otherwise specifically provided by this section for a
particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increase fine for a repeat
offense shall be as follows.
            1.   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense: the
fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall be set by a
resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
            2.   The fines for any offense which is a second repeat offense:
the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall be set
by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
      (4)   The person who shall receive the municipal civil infraction by the
Building Official is the owner of the subject property and/or the builder
performing the work in violation of §
92.01.
      (5)   A VIOLATION includes any act which is prohibited or made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense by §
92.01, including any omission or failure to act where the act is required by §
92.01.
      (6)   In addition to any remedy available at law, the village may bring
an action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any violation of §
92.01.
      (7)   The Village Building Official shall have the authority to issue
municipal civil infraction tickets pursuant to §
92.01, after an investigation and authorization by the Village Attorney,
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 600.8707(2).
   (C)   Section
92.02. Any person violating §
92.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine: the fees and/or
penalties charged in connection with this section shall be set by a resolution
of the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 91, passed 9-13-1982; Ord. 94, passed 7-2-1984; Ord. 145, passed 8-4-
1997)
CHAPTER 93: JUNK AND JUNK AUTOMOBILES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Findings
   
93.03   Storage and the like
   
93.04   Disassembling and the like
   
93.05   Declaring a vehicle abandoned
   
93.06   Taking vehicle into custody
   
93.07   Contesting the taking into custody
   
93.08   Public sale of vehicles in custody
   
93.09   Unregistered or registered scrap vehicles
   
93.10   Municipal civil infraction
   
93.11   Effective date
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Includes, without limitation, parts of machinery or motor vehicles,
unused furniture, stoves, refrigerators, or other appliances, remnants of wood,
metal, or any other castoff material of any kind, whether or not the same could
be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILES. Includes, without limitation, any motor vehicle which is
not licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a period in excess of
ten days, and shall also include, whether licensed or not, any motor vehicle
which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of ten days;
provided, that there is excepted from this definition unlicensed, but
operative, vehicles which are kept as the stock and trade of a regularly
licensed and established new or used automobile dealer.
   PERSON. Includes all natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations,
and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated,
whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent, or employee. All persons
who violate any of the provisions of this chapter, whether as an owner,
occupant, lessee, agent, servant, or employee, shall, except as herein
otherwise provided, be equally liable as principals.
   REGISTERED ABANDONED SCRAP VEHICLES. Includes a vehicle which meets all the
following requirements:
      (1)   Is on public or private property;
      (2)   Is seven or more years old;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the extent
that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and safe, as
required by M.C.L.A. § 257.683, would exceed the fair market value of the
vehicle;
      (4)   Is currently registered in the state or displays current year
registration plates from another state; and
      (5)   Is not removed within ten days after written notice is affixed to
the vehicle, as provided in §
93.05.
   UNREGISTERED ABANDONED SCRAP VEHICLES. Includes a vehicle which meets all
the following requirements:
      (1)   Is on public or private property;
      (2)   Is seven or more years old;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the extent
that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and safe, as
required by M.C.L.A. § 257.683, would exceed the fair market value of the
vehicle;
      (4)   Is not currently registered in the state or does not display
current year registration plates from another state; and
      (5)   Is not removed within ten days after written notice is affixed to
the vehicle, as provided in §
93.05.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.02 FINDINGS.
   It is determined that the storage or accumulation of junk, junk automobiles,
and abandoned vehicles upon any private or public property within the village
tends to result in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods, an increase in
criminal activity, the spread of vermin and disease, is hazardous to persons
and property, and is contrary to the public peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the community.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.03 STORAGE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or to permit the storage or
accumulation or fail to properly dispose of, any junk, junk automobiles, or
abandoned vehicles on any property in the village except within a completely
enclosed building or upon the premises of a duly licensed junk dealer, junk
buyer, dealer in used auto parts, dealer in second-hand goods, or junk
gatherer.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 DISASSEMBLING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to dismantle, cut up, remove parts from,
or otherwise disassemble any automobile, whether or not the same be except in a
completely enclosed building, or upon the premises of a duly licensed junk
dealer, junk buyer, dealer in used auto parts, dealer in second-hand goods, or
junk gatherer.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DECLARING A VEHICLE ABANDONED.
   (A)   Generally. The village may remove or cause to be removed any junk
automobile or abandoned vehicle from any unenclosed private property after
notifying, in writing, the owner or occupant of the property of the village's
intention to do so at least ten days prior to the removal, using the following
procedure.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Prior to issuing the notice, the police agency shall determine if
the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (2)   The written notice shall be affixed to the vehicle and contain the
following information, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252a(3):
         (a)   The date and time the notice was affixed;
         (b)   The name and address of the police agency taking the action;
         (c)   The name and badge number of the police officer affixing the
notice;
         (d)   The date and time the vehicle may be taken into custody and
stored at the owner's expense or scrapped if the vehicle is not removed; and
         (e)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, if available.
      (3)   If the vehicle is not removed within ten days after the date the
notice was affixed, the vehicle is deemed abandoned and the police agency may
have the vehicle taken into custody, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252a(4).
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.06 TAKING VEHICLE INTO CUSTODY.
   In order to take a vehicle into custody pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252a(5),
the police agency shall:
   (A)   Recheck to determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen;
   (B)   Within 24 hours after taking the vehicle into custody, enter the
vehicle as abandoned into the law enforcement information network;
   (C)   Within seven days after taking the vehicle into custody, send to the
registered owner and secured party, as shown by the records of the Secretary of
State, by first-class mail or personal service, notice that the vehicle has
been deemed abandoned; and
   (D)   The notice required under division (C) above shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle,
if available;
      (2)   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody;
      (3)   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody;
      (4)   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody;
      (5)   The business address of the custodian of the vehicle;
      (6)   The procedure to redeem the vehicle;
      (7)   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle has been deemed
abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage fees;
      (8)   A form petition which the owner may file in person or by mail with
the specified court which requests a hearing on the police agency's action; and
      (9)   A warning that failure to redeem the vehicle or to request a
hearing within 20 days after the date of the notice may result in the sale of
the vehicle and the termination of all rights of the owner and the secured
party to the vehicle or the proceeds of the sale.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.07 CONTESTING THE TAKING INTO CUSTODY.
   (A)   The registered owner may contest the fact that the vehicle has been
deemed abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees by requesting a hearing.
   (B)   A request for a hearing shall be made by filing a petition with the
55th District Court within 20 days after the date of the notice.
      (1)   If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be resolved after
a hearing conducted in the 55th District Court, that substantially conforms to
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.252e and 257.252f.
      (2)   The owner of the vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain release
of the vehicle by paying the towing and storage fees or by posting a bond with
the Court equal to the towing and storage fees.
      (3)   If the Court determines that the vehicle was not properly
abandoned, the police agency shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle for the
accrued towing and storage fees within a reasonable time.
      (4)   If the owner does not request a hearing, release of the vehicle may
be obtained by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle.
      (5)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing
within 20 days after the date of the notice, a secured party may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle and the police agency for its accrued costs.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.08 PUBLIC SALE OF VEHICLES IN CUSTODY.
   (A)   Not less than 20 days after disposition of the hearing described in §
93.07 or if a hearing is not requested, not less than 20 days after the date of
the notice, the police agency, after approval by the Village Attorney, shall
offer the vehicle for sale at a public sale, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252g.
   (B)   If the ownership of a vehicle which has been determined to be
abandoned under this chapter cannot be determined either because of the
condition of the vehicle identification number or because a check at the
Secretary of State's office does not reveal ownership, the police agency may
sell the vehicle at public sale pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252g, not less than
30 days after public notice of the sale has been published in the newspaper of
general circulation in the village.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.09 UNREGISTERED OR REGISTERED SCRAP VEHICLES.
   The police agency may have an unregistered or a registered scrape vehicle
taken into custody, in consultation with the Village Attorney, by taking the
actions set forth under M.C.L.A. § 257.252b(2) for unregistered abandoned scrap
vehicles or M.C.L.A. § 257.252b(6) for registered abandoned scrap vehicles.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.10 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   In addition to the procedure set forth above for disposing of junk
automobiles deemed abandoned, any violation of, or failure to comply with, the
provisions of this chapter by any person shall constitute a municipal civil
infraction, and be subject to the penalties prescribed in §
10.99. Not less than 48 hours prior to issuing a municipal civil infraction
ticket, the enforcement officer shall give written notice to the person deemed
to be responsible for the infraction in person or by first-class mail to the
person's last known address, and, if a junk automobile, affix the notice which
complies with §
93.05 on the vehicle. The notice shall include a statement that a municipal
civil infraction ticket will be issued if the violation continues beyond 48
hours.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 93.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take immediate effect, except the penalty provisions,
which shall take effect 20 days after publication, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 66.1.
(Ord. 149, passed 6-1-1998)
CHAPTER 94: HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Cleanup of hazardous waste
   
94.03   Authorization for cleanup; liability for costs
   
94.04   Payment of costs
   
94.05   Lien upon property
   
94.06   Court proceedings
   
94.07   Effective date
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. Any costs directly or indirectly incurred by the village, and shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual labor costs
of village personnel including workers compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
and administrative overhead; costs of equipment, operation, materials obtained
by the village; and costs of any contract labor or materials which are
necessitated for the cleanup of hazardous substances. Provided, however, that
the term COST, as used herein, shall not include actual fire suppression
activities normally or usually provided by the Township Fire Department.
Further, the provisions of this section shall apply to all costs incurred by
the village not recovered through the Hazardous Waste Service Fund, being
M.C.L.A. § 324.1143 of the Hazardous Waste, Public Act 451 of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§
324.1101 et seq., as amended, or through § 123 of CERCLA, being 42 U.S.C. §§
2000e et seq.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material, waste, or a combination of waste and
material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material
which, because of its quantity, quality, concentration, or other physical,
chemical, or general characteristics, pose a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment if improperly treated, stored,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE/WASTE. As defined by § 101(14) of the United States
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA),
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq., means any substance designated pursuant to §
311(B)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 42 U.S.C. §
1321; any element, compound, mixture, solution, or substance designated
pursuant to § 102 of CERCLA; or any hazardous waste having characteristics
identified under or listed pursuant to § 3001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. § 6921, (not including waste regulation suspended by acts of
Congress); any toxic pollutant listed under § 307(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 1317(a), any hazardous air pollutant
listed under § 102 of the Clean Air Act, and any hazardous chemical substance
or mixture with respect to which the Administrator has taken action pursuant to
§ 7 of the Toxic Substance Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state, any trust, firm,
joint stock company, federal agency, governmental corporation, association,
municipality, joint venture, limited partnership, commission, political
subdivision of the state, any interstate body, and any public body created by
or pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.02 CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The cleanup of hazardous materials, substances, and waste shall be the
responsibility of the person who produced, used, transported, or consumed same.
Hazardous materials, substances, and waste shall not be disposed of within the
village, or allowed to be collected, stored, or transported within the village
without written approval of the Village President or the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.03 AUTHORIZATION FOR CLEANUP; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   The Township Fire Department, or a contractor working at the direction of
the Township Fire Department, is authorized to clean up or abate the effects of
any hazardous materials, substance, or waste deposits upon the property or
facilities within the village. Any person who intentionally or negligently
causes or contributes to the deposit shall be jointly and severally liable for
payment of all costs incurred by the village and the Township Fire Department
and/or the contractor working on behalf of the Township Fire Department as a
result of the cleanup or abatement activity. The remedy provided in this
section shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law, including
remedial activities as may be mandated by state or federal law.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.04 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall bill the person or persons responsible for
intentionally or negligently depositing hazardous materials, substances, or
waste for which the village incurs cleanup costs. Payment of the bill shall be
due and payable within 30 days of the postmark of the statement.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.05 LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The cost of cleanup incurred by the village shall constitute a lien upon the
property for which the cleanup charges were incurred, including both real and
personal property if the owner or owner's lessee caused or contributed to the
deposit, and if not paid within three months after the same is due. The Village
Treasurer, or his or her designee, prior to May 1 of each year, shall certify
to the tax assessing officer of the village the facts of the delinquency,
whereupon the official shall enter the delinquent charges upon the next general
village tax roll as a charge against the premises, and the liens thereon shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided by law for delinquent and unpaid
taxes.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.06 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the village shall be empowered to
maintain proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction to collect the
charges as a matured debt of the village.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 20 days after its passage, approval, and
publication.
(Ord. 142, passed 7-1-1996)
CHAPTER 95: ADDRESS NUMBERS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Requirements
   
95.04   Existing structures
   
95.05   New construction
   
95.06   Persons responsible
   
95.07   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The Village Council determines that, to provide proper police, fire, health,
welfare, and emergency services, public or private, it is necessary that
address numbers be visible form the public roadways adjacent to all residences
and businesses in the village.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY ADDRESS NUMBER. The street address, when applicable, or lot number
until an address is established, for developed property within the village.
   STRUCTURE. A house, building, business, mobile home, or dwelling, situated
or constructed within the limits of the village.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 95.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All structures shall constitute developed property and shall have a
property address number posted on the face or other appropriate side of the
structure in a manner and location so that the number is clearly and readily
observable from the adjacent roadway by a person of normal vision.
   (B)   Every mobile home shall have an individual property address number at
least three inches in height posted on the side of the mobile home facing the
access road. The owner of the mobile home park shall be responsible for
assigning all the property address numbers.
   (C)   In the event a structure is located on the property so that the posted
numbers are not clearly observable from the roadway, due to distance or
intervening sight barriers, the property address number shall also be posted
separate from the main structure in a fashion that makes the number clearly
observable from the adjacent roadway. These numbers shall be located either
centrally between the side boundaries of the property or located immediately
adjacent to the driveways providing ingress to the property, and on the same
side of the adjacent roadway as the property it identifies.
   (D)   Property address numbers shall be not less than three inches in
height. In the event a structure is located more than 90 feet from the
centerline of the traveled portion of the adjacent roadway, the property
address number shall be not less than six inches in height, and a size
sufficiently large so that the numbers are observable from the centerline of
the adjacent roadway by a person of normal vision.
   (E)   The color of the numbers shall be in contrast with the immediate
background on which they are mounted.
   (F)   In the case of structures having multiple units, either business or
residential, the property address numbers shall be clearly indicated at each
entrance to every unit accessible through the entrance.
   (G)   Property address numbers of all structures used for commercial or
industrial purposes connected to other buildings and which require a different
route of access to the rear than to the front, shall have the correct number
placed on or immediately adjacent to the rear entrance door. The numbers shall
not be less than three nor more than six inches in height, and may consist of
standard manufactured letters or numerals. If painted on the building or door,
all numbers shall be applied with standard type numeral and letter stencil. The
number shall be placed as to be plainly visible and observable from the alley,
service drive, easement, parking lot, or any other rear access.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   All existing developed property shall be identified as required in §
95.03 within 60 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All applicants for building permits for new construction of residences,
businesses, or other such structures shall be required to submit plans showing
the proposed location of their property address number before any building
permit is issued, and compliance with this chapter shall be a condition
precedent to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or land use permit
required by
Chapter 153.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 95.06 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   The owner, occupant, lessee, or other person in control of any developed
property shall each be responsible for compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 95.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon publication except the
penalty provision which shall take effect 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 128, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 96: RENTAL INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION
Section
   
96.01   Registration for rental or lease of dwellings
   
96.02   Application for registration
   
96.03   Inspection required for registration
   
96.04   Issuance of registration certificate
   
96.05   Maintenance of registered dwellings
   
96.06   Waivers
   
96.07   Appeal of denial, suspension, or revocation of registration certificate
§ 96.01 REGISTRATION FOR RENTAL OR LEASE OF DWELLINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to rent or lease a dwelling unless a
registration certificate has been issued and maintained for the dwelling in the
manner required by this chapter.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.02 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   The village shall receive applications for the registration of dwellings
under the provisions of this chapter. The application shall be signed by the
owner of record. The application shall be accompanied by a registration fee in
such amount as the Village Council shall from time to time establish by
resolution.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.03 INSPECTION REQUIRED FOR REGISTRATION.
   The owner of the dwelling identified in the application shall make the
dwelling available for inspections by the village as may be necessary to
determine whether the dwelling complies with the International Property
Maintenance Code, the state building code, the state residential code, the
state electrical code, the state mechanical code, the state plumbing code, the
state uniform energy code, the state elevator code, the state housing law, and
the village's zoning code, as amended.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.04 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   After receiving the application and fee for registration, the village shall
inspect the dwelling applying the standards set forth in the above-stated
codes, housing law, and zoning code. Upon determining that the dwelling is in
compliance, the village shall issue to the applicant a registration
certificate, which shall be valid for three calendar years, or until a change
of tenant, whichever comes first. The registration certificate shall be in the
name of the owner and cannot be transferred.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.05 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTERED DWELLINGS.
   The owner of the dwelling registered under the provisions of this chapter
shall maintain the dwelling and property in compliance with the above-stated
codes, housing law, and zoning ordinance. Should the owner fail to maintain the
dwelling in compliance with said codes, housing laws, and zoning ordinance, the
registration certificate shall be suspended or revoked by the village, which
may result in sanctions by the village and/or removal of the occupants
depending on the nature of the violation. The owner shall be given notice, in
writing, of the determination and the reasons for the determination. If
applicable, the owner may be given a time specified by the village to rectify
the violations. The notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the address
listed on the owner's application form.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.06 WAIVERS.
   The Village Council may waive a required inspection and/or fee if the unit
in question was inspected in the previous 12 months and was found to be in
compliance at that time. Waivers shall be granted at the discretion of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 96.07 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATE.
   Should the department determine that the dwelling is not in compliance, and
for that reason deny, suspend, or revoke a registration certificate; the owner
shall have the right to appeal such determination in the following manner:
   (A)   The owner shall file the appeal with the village's Zoning Board of
Appeals, in writing, within 15 days of the date of the department's
determination. Filing of the appeal shall stay any suspension or revocation of
a registration certificate until such time as the Zoning Board of Appeals
issues a final decision. The appeal shall contain a short and plain statement
of the matter(s) asserted by the owner, including factual and legal bases upon
which the owner relies.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the appeal, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall schedule
a hearing and provide notice of the hearing to the owner by sending written
notice by first-class mail to the address listed on the owner's application
form. The owner may appear at the hearing in person, or by representative. If
the owner or representative fails to appear at the hearing after proper notice,
the Zoning Board of Appeals may proceed with the hearing and issue a decision.
The owner shall be given an opportunity to present evidence and arguments on
issues of law and fact.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall:
      (1)   Affirm the determination of the department; or
      (2)   Reverse the determination of the department and order the issuance
or reinstatement of a registration certificate.
(Ord. 227, passed 11-12-2013)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS-OF-WAY
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   CABLE TELEVISION RATE REGULATIONS
         
113.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
         
114.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Conflicts
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Permit required
   
110.05   Issuance of permit
   
110.06   Construction or engineering permit
   
110.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
110.08   Route maps
   
110.09   Repair of damage
   
110.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
110.11   Modification of existing fees
   
110.12   Savings clause
   
110.13   Use of funds
   
110.14   Annual report
   
110.15   Cable television operators
   
110.16   Existing rights
   
110.17   Compliance
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.,
("Act") and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.02 CONFLICTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
      PERMIT. A nonexclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the village
for its telecommunications facilities.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Webberville, Michigan.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk or his or her designee.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Michigan, Indiana,
or its designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Village Council.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
Village Clerk, one copy with the Village President, and one copy with the
Village Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all information
required by the Act, including, without limitation, a route map showing the
location of the provider's existing and proposed facilities in accordance with
§ 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 through 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by: the fees and/or penalties charged in
connection with this section shall be set by a resolution of the Village
Council on an annual basis.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Clerk may request an applicant to
submit any additional information which the Village Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all the requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for the additional information established
by the Village Clerk. If the village and the applicant cannot agree on the
requirement of additional information requested by the village, the village or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the village under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the village to
telecommunications provider prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider
with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the village as of the date,
that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the village an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division (G)
is not required to pay the fee required under division (D) above. A provider
under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional 180 days to submit
the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of
the Act.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Council. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the Village Council shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
110.04(B) of this chapter for access to public right-of-way within the village.
Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall notify the MPSC when the
Village Council has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding
the date on which the application was filed and the date on which the permit
was granted or denied. The Village Council shall not unreasonably deny an
application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for a permit is approved, the
Village Clerk shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2),
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Village Council may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the Village Council may require that a bond
be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.06 CONSTRUCTION OR ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required under this chapter
for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for
such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
village. The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and
until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstruction a public right-of-way in the
village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in §
110.04(D) of this chapter, a telecommunications provider with
telecommunications facilities in the village's public rights-of-way shall pay
an annual maintenance fee to the Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the village
modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to telecommunications
providers after 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to access
and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts
of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the
Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the
village also approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act. The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers
in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is declared to be contrary to the
village's policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or discovery by
the village, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
110.11 of this chapter shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village from the
Authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after 11-1-2002, the effective date of this Act, a
franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from charges the
cable operator received for cable modem services provided through broadband
internet transport access services.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided with respect to
fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 110.17 COMPLIANCE.
   The village declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter is
to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
(Ord. 180, passed 4-14-2003)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Sunday sales
   
111.02   Public consumption; open containers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   The sale of alcoholic beverages, including beer, wine and liquor,
shall be allowed on Sundays in any establishment licensed to sell the same
located within the village.
   (B)   This section shall take immediate effect upon publication.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-8-1996)
§ 111.02 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION; OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Alcoholic liquor shall not be consumed on or in any public street,
sidewalk, highway, alley, parking lot open to the public, village park, or
other public places, or on private property which is open to the general public
and which is not licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises.
   (B)   No person shall possess any alcoholic liquor in a container which is
open, uncapped, or upon which the seal is broken on or in any public street,
sidewalk, highway, alley, parking lot open to the public, village park, or
other public places, or on private property which is open to the general public
and which is not licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-1-1991) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
111.02: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this section shall
be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 123, passed 7-1-1991)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION RATE REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
112.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
112.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
112.05   Proprietary information
   
112.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
112.07   Tolling order
   
112.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
112.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
112.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
112.11   Refunds; notice
   
112.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
112.13   Rules and regulations
   
112.14   Failure to give notice
   
112.15   Additional hearings
   
112.16   Additional powers
   
112.17   Failure to comply; remedies
   
112.18   Conflicting provisions
   
112.19   Effective date
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., as
amended (and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), being 47 U.S.C.
§§ 609 et seq., and as may be amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Shall mean "basic service" as defined in the FCC
Rules, and any other cable television service which is subject to rate
regulation by the village pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
      INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the village shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission the information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the Village Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten copies have been received by the Village Clerk. The Village Council may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data, and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator's filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the village pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Village President in connection with the
village's review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Village
President may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information
and the cable operator shall comply with those deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
the rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the village
pursuant to §
112.04(A), or any request for information pursuant to §
112.04(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the village
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The village shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied, where the cable operator is
proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal, in which case the
allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or the cable operator
may seek review within five working days of the denial in any appropriate
forum. Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the village. The village shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny, or
condition a request. The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review
of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will
be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
112.04(A), the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be
mailed by first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition,
if a written staff or consultant's report on the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then
the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the
cable operator at least three days before the meeting at which the Village
Council shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
112.04(A) unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing. The Village Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90
days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150
days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
112.07 of this chapter and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of
existing rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a
proposed increase in these rates, the cable operator shall submit to the
village any additional information required or requested pursuant to §
112.04 of this chapter. In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public
hearing to consider the comments of interested parties within the additional
90-day or 150-day period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time, and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Village President shall cause a report to
be prepared for the Village Council which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant's
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Village Council pursuant to §
112.10. The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator
by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council acts under
§
112.10. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Village Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the Village Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to
the cable operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the Village Council.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the Village Council issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
112.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
112.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the Village Council orders any refund to subscribers,
the Village Clerk shall give at least seven-days' written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the date, time, and place at which the Village
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent, or by letter at the time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
Village Council.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §§
112.10 or
112.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Village
Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption. The Clerk
shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of
general circulation within the village which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
112.04, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Village Council.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Village Council may
hold additional public hearings upon the reasonable notice as the Village
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator's franchise, and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules, and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The village may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The village may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator's franchise with the village) for failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator's franchise.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.18 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this chapter and the provisions of any
prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement, or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 112.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 132, passed 10-4-1993)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Franchise required
   
113.04   Franchise application; contents; fees; issuance
   
113.05   Franchise; Council consideration; issuance; criteria for selection of
franchisee; term; form
   
113.06   Franchise transfer; termination; revocation; surrender
   
113.07   Franchise fees; computation; payment; reports; records
   
113.08   Construction of service facilities; right to use streets;
restrictions; disposal duties; commencement and completion
   
113.09   Service; standards; minimum channel capability
   
113.10   Service; rates; discrimination; filing schedules; maximum rates;
increase in rates; procedures
   
113.11   Service; provision to village; schools; public emergencies
   
113.12   Indemnity; proof of insurance; effective date of franchise
   
113.13   Service; complaints; hearing and determination; procedure; local
office; credit for loss of service
   
113.14   Priority of use
   
113.15   Surrender of other franchises
   
113.16   Reports
   
113.17   Rights of village
   
113.18   Cable Communications Commission; establishment; members; functions
   
113.19   Miscellaneous provisions
   
113.20   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Village of Webberville Cable
Communications Ordinance."
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY. Any person who owns, controls, operates, or
manages a cable communications system for the purpose of providing cable
communications service to members of the public located in the village.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The business, in whole or in part, of
receiving directly or indirectly over the air, and amplifying or otherwise
modifying signals transmitting programs broadcast by sound, pictures, visual
images, digital signals, telemetry, or any other type of closed circuit
transmission by means of electrical or light impulses, whether or not directed
to originating signals, or receiving signals off the air, and redistributing
the signals by wire, cable, or other means to members of the public located in
the village who pay for the service.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A system of coaxial cables or other conductors,
antennae, transmitters, fixtures, converters, distribution networks, studios,
and other equipment used or to be used to originate or receive television or
radio signals directly or indirectly off the air and to transmit them via cable
to subscribers for a fixed or variable fee, including the origination, receipt,
transmission, and distribution of voices, sound signals, pictures, visual
images, digital signals, telemetry, or any other type of closed circuit
transmission by means of electrical or light impulses, whether or not directed
to originating signals or receiving signals off the air.
   FRANCHISE or FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The separate agreement by which the
franchise is granted to a franchisee, as required by this chapter.
   LOCAL GROSS REVENUES. All gross revenues received by the franchise derived
from all cable communications system service within the village, including, but
not limited thereto, sums received from installation, connection, reconnection
to the system, advertising, channel leasing, and per program and per channel
charges.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, firms, corporations, associations,
partnerships, or organizations of any kind, and any combination thereof.
   VILLAGE. All the land lying within its territorial limits or annexed thereto
in the future and all land adjacent thereto capable of being served by the
holder of the cable communications system franchise granted hereto without
obtaining a separate cable communications system franchise from LeRoy Township.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct, install, maintain, or operate a cable
communications system in the village nor shall any person provide cable
communications service or acquire ownership or control of a cable
communications company providing the service in the village without having
first obtained a franchise therefor from the village and executing a franchise
agreement with the village in accordance and compliance with all of the terms
of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall use, occupy, or traverse streets, alleys, lanes,
avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, bridges, viaducts, rights-of-way, or any other
public place or public way in the village or any extensions thereof or
additions thereto, whether on, above, or under the surface of the ground, for
the purposes of installing, constructing, maintaining, or operating a cable
communications system or facilities therefor or for the purposes of installing,
constructing, maintaining, or operating a cable communications system or
facilities therefor or for the purpose of furnishing a cable communications
service without the person having first obtained a franchise therefor from the
village and executing a franchise agreement with the village in accordance and
compliance with all of the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 FRANCHISE APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEES; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to install, construct, operate, or maintain a
cable communications system in the village or to furnish cable communication
service therein shall first submit an application for a franchise in writing
therefor to the Village Clerk in the form as may be prescribed.
   (B)   An application for such a franchise shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Proposed service area. A description and map of the territory
within the village in which the cable communication system is to be installed,
constructed, maintained, or operated and to which cable communications service
is to be provided; and a statement designating the priority in which service is
proposed to be afforded the specified areas within the village;
      (2)   Legal qualifications. A statement disclosing the full legal
ownership of the proposed cable communications company proposing to service the
village, including, where pertinent, the submission of certified copies of any
articles of incorporation, d/b/a forms, articles of partnership, also, if a
foreign corporation, a certificate of its authority to do business in the
state; the names and addresses of all persons having an ownership interest,
directly or indirectly, and the nature thereof, in the cable communications
company represented by the applicant; a statement as to any affiliated
corporations or business organizations engaged in providing cable
communications service, or interlocking directorships or ownerships held by any
owners, officers or directors of the applicant with any other business engaged
in providing cable communications service;
      (3)   Financial qualifications. A copy of the applicant's current balance
sheet reflecting the applicant's financial status as of a date not more than 60
days prior to the date of application; a statement of any loan or other credit
arrangement the applicant intends to obtain to finance the construction and
operation of the proposed facilities, together with the full particulars
relative thereto, including the identity and addresses of the creditor(s);
      (4)   Technical qualifications. A statement of the arrangements the
applicant has made or proposes to make to provide the level of cable
communications service proposed to be offered to the village, including the
type and kind of facilities to be employed, the technical standards to be
followed, the maintenance and repair facilities to be used, the number and
description of technical and other persons to be employed; together with copies
of any contracts, agreements or arrangements relating to the above; a statement
of any other cable communications system franchises held by the applicant
including the name and address of the grantor, a statement of the level of
service provided, and the stage of operation thereunder;
      (5)   Business and facility placement. A statement of the proposed
location of any antenna site(s) and place(s) of business to be located within
the village and their proposed design;
      (6)   Programming and public services. Complete information of all
programming and public services the applicant proposes to provide, including:
the number of off signals to be carried initially and upon the full rendition
of service to the area; the number of channels offered and the potential for
diversified services to local government, educational institutions, community
groups, householders, and local commercial interests; and projected development
of customer and community services, indicating priorities of development and
estimated time schedules therefor;
      (7)   Construction estimates. A statement of the applicant's construction
schedule for installation of cable communications services in the village
together with cost estimates of development, installation, and maintenance of
the system, including, where applicable, the proposed cost of acquisition of
the system where approval of a transfer of the franchise has been requested,
and a revenue forecast for the next five years of service;
      (8)   Schedule of rates. A proposed schedule of rates for installation
charges, monthly service fees, reconnection, relocation and disconnection,
equipment deposits, optional equipment and services, and any other charges
proposed to be assessed against any subscriber; and
      (9)   Additional information. Any other information the village may from
time to time request to establish the legal, financial, technical, and other
qualification of the applicant to provide cable communications service to the
village.
   (C)   An application for a franchise under this chapter shall be accompanied
by a fee: the fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this chapter
shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.05 FRANCHISE; COUNCIL CONSIDERATION; ISSUANCE; CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF
FRANCHISEE; TERM; FORM.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application(s) for a cable communication system
franchise under this chapter with the Village Clerk, the Village Council shall
hold a public hearing on the application(s) after due notice of the time and
place of the hearing has been provided as required by law.
   (B)   If the Village Council determines that the applicant possesses the
legal, financial, technical, and other qualifications necessary to reasonably
assure applicant's ability to satisfactorily install, construct, maintain, or
operate a cable communications system, or to furnish cable communications
service to the public in the village, the Village Council may issue the
applicant a nonexclusive franchise therefor in the village, provided, that no
franchise shall be issued until the franchise application has been on file in
the office of the Village Clerk and the Village Council has held a public
hearing on the application in accordance with division (A) above.
   (C)   In determining whether such a franchise shall be issued, the Village
Council shall consider the technical qualifications of the applicant; the
financial responsibility of the applicant; the ability of applicant to
efficiently provide the service proposed, including the prior experience, if
any, of the applicant in providing cable communications systems or furnishing
cable communications service; the proposed rate schedule; the nature and scope
of the applicant's proposed system; the timetables for development of
applicant's proposed system, and any other information the Council feels is
relevant such as the nature of ownership, the ties of the applicant to the
community, the applicant's ability to employ or utilize residents of the
village.
   (D)   Any franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall be a nonexclusive
franchise for a term, not to exceed 15 years, as the Council may approve, shall
be issued in the form as shall be determined by the Council, and the terms
thereof shall be subject to all applicable provisions contained in this chapter
and other ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.06 FRANCHISE TRANSFER; TERMINATION; REVOCATION; SURRENDER.
   (A)   No franchise granted hereunder may be sold, transferred, or assigned
unless the transaction is first approved by the Village Council after receipt
of a written application therefor containing the same information of the
transferee as required of an original applicant. Prior approval of the Council
shall be required where ownership or control of more than 25% of the right of
control of the franchisee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already own or control 25% or more of the right of
control, singularly or collectively.
   (B)   No franchise granted hereunder may be sold, transferred, or assigned
nor any more than 25% of the right of control of franchisee be transferred to a
person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom already own or
control 25% or more of the right of control, singularly or collectively, until
the sale, transfer, or assignment of franchise or transfer of right of control
shall first have been offered to the village or to a person approved by the
village. The offer shall be made at a price not greater than, and on terms
equivalent to, that made to the offeror by a bona fide bidder for the franchise
or right of control. The village or the person approved by the village shall
accept or reject the offer within 90 days. This provision shall not be deemed
to restrict the transfer by bequest or descent of stock of the franchisee.
   (C)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall expire without
further proceedings one year after its effective date in the event the person
granted the franchise has not commenced construction of a cable communications
system within the period, unless the Council grants an extension of time to
complete construction for good cause shown by the franchisee.
   (D)   If any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter shall fail
to provide cable communications service within and throughout the franchise
area as required under the terms of its franchise agreement, the franchise
shall, on the anniversary of the effective date of the franchise next following
the 12-month period during which cable communications service has not been
extended as required under the terms of the franchise agreement, be deemed
revoked without the necessity of action by the Village Council unless, prior to
the date, the person shall have applied to the Village Council and the Village
Council shall have, for good cause shown, granted an extension of the
construction or service periods set forth in the franchise agreement.
   (E)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be terminated and
cancelled without further proceedings 120 days after the appointment of a
receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of a cable
communications company, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or
other action or proceedings unless the receivership or trusteeship shall have
been vacated prior to the expiration of the period; provided, however, that the
receiver or trustee may apply for a transfer or assignment of the franchise, as
hereinbefore provided in division (A) above, within 60 days of the appointment
of the receiver or trustee, if duly approved by the Court having jurisdiction
in the premises, and provided further, in case of a foreclosure or other
judicial sale of the plant, property or facilities of a cable communications
company, with or without the appointment of a receiver or trustee, including or
excluding the franchise granted under this chapter. The franchise as granted
will be terminated and cancelled without further proceedings upon 30-days'
written notice of termination served upon the cable communications company and
the purchaser thereof, unless within the 30-day period, the purchaser shall
apply to the village for a transfer or assignment to it of the same as provided
in division (A) above.
   (F)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter is revocable by the
village prior to its expiration where the cable communications company has
become insolvent; or has failed substantially to comply with any provision or
requirement of state or federal law or of this chapter, the representations
made in its franchise application, or the provision of its franchise agreement;
or has failed to apply to the Federal Communications Commission for a
certificate of compliance with sufficient promptness to avoid interruption or
delay in service required by the franchise agreement. The village shall give a
written notice containing full particulars as to the provision or requirement
with which compliance is claimed deficient and allow the cable communications
company 60 days to comply. At the expiration of the 60 days, the franchise
shall be deemed terminated and revoked, without further village action, unless
the cable communications company has corrected all deficiencies or requested a
hearing before the Village Council upon its alleged failure to substantially
comply with any provision or requirements of this chapter or of its franchise
agreement. The hearing shall be public with the cable communications company
being permitted to fully participate therein, including the right to introduce
testimony and exhibits and to examine and cross-examine witnesses. The hearing
shall be recorded and at the conclusion thereof the Village Council, if it
finds that the cable communications company has not substantially complied with
any provision or requirement of this chapter or of its franchise agreement, may
terminate and revoke the franchise.
   (G)   Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter may surrender
it by written notice of intent to surrender its franchise filed with the
Village Clerk not less than 60 days prior to the surrender date. On the
surrender date specified in the notice, all rights, privileges, and authority
under the franchise shall terminate; provided, however, that the person shall
have a period of six months thereafter to remove its towers, poles, wires,
cables, fixtures, or other facilities from the streets, alleys, public rights-
of-way, or public places, subject to the rights of the village as set forth in
division (D) above. At the expiration of the six-month period, any property not
removed by the person shall become the property of the village to do with as it
may choose, and any cost of removing the property from its streets, alleys,
public rights-of-way, or public places may be claimed against the person under
the performance bond required under §
113.12(A).
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.07 FRANCHISE FEES; COMPUTATION; PAYMENT; REPORTS; RECORDS.
   (A)   During the term of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the
person granted the franchise shall pay to the village, for the use of its
streets, public places, and other facilities, as well as the maintenance,
improvements, and supervision thereof, and for the regulation of activities
required by virtue of the franchise, an annual franchise fee in the amount
which shall be established in the franchise agreement not to exceed the maximum
allowed to be charged by the Federal Communications Commission or any other
regulatory body. The village shall be furnished a statement with each payment,
certified as correct by the franchisee, and an audited annual statement for the
entire year, prepared by a certified public accountant indicating the annual
local gross revenues. All statements shall reflect the total amount of local
gross revenues, deductions, and computations for the period covered by this
statement.
   (B)   Payments due the village under the terms of this chapter shall be
computed quarterly as of September 30, December 31, March 31, and June 30 for
the preceding quarter and shall be paid on or before the thirtieth calendar day
from each computation date to the Village Treasurer.
   (C)   The village shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times
the customer records of any person granted a franchise hereunder from which its
franchise fee payments are computed and shall have the right of audit and
recomputation of any and all franchise fees paid. No acceptance of any payment
shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim
the village may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee
under this chapter or for the performance of any other obligation hereunder.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.08 CONSTRUCTION OF SERVICE FACILITIES; RIGHT TO USE STREETS;
RESTRICTIONS; DISPOSAL DUTIES; COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION.
   (A)   A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall confer upon the
grantee named therein the nonexclusive right to erect, install, construct,
reconstruct, replace, remove, repair, maintain, and operate in or upon, under,
above, and across the streets, avenues, highways, sidewalks, bridges, and other
public ways, easements, and rights-of-way, existing as of the date of the grant
of the franchise and all subsequent extensions thereof and additions thereto,
in and belonging to the village, all necessary towers, poles, wires, cables,
coaxial cables, transformers, amplifiers, underground conduits, manholes, and
other television and/or radio conductors, equipment, and fixtures for the
installation, construction, maintenance, and operation of a cable
communications system (including audio, video, and radio signals) or the
furnishing of a cable communications service.
   (B)   Prior to the erection or installation of any towers, poles, guys,
anchors, underground conduits, manholes, or fixtures for use in connection with
the installation, construction, maintenance, or operation of a cable
communications system under a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the
grantee of a franchise hereunder desiring to erect or install the facilities
for use in connection with its cable communications system shall first submit
to the Director of Public Works for his or her review and approval a concise
description of the facilities proposed to be erected or installed, including
engineering drawings, if requested or required, together with a map indicating
the proposed location of the facilities. No erection or installation of any
tower, pole, guy, anchor, underground conduit, manhole, or fixture for use in a
cable communications system shall be commenced by any person until approval
therefor has been received from the Director of Public Works, provided,
further, that the approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   Any person accepting a franchise pursuant to this chapter and erecting
or installing towers or poles shall, upon written request by the village, grant
the village reasonable attachment space or spaces upon the towers or poles
without a rental charge for the attachment of wire or cable owned and used by
the village; provided, however, that the village shall pay any costs incurred
by the person in providing attachment space or spaces to the village, including
all necessary costs of rearrangement of the person's wires, cables, or
equipment and tower or pole replacement cost for a larger tower or pole, if
required.
   (D)   Upon the expiration, termination, surrender, or revocation of any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or should any person wish otherwise
to dispose of any tower or pole erected or installed for use in connection with
a cable communications system, the village retains the first right and option
to purchase in place the towers or poles as it may require for their fair value
based upon reproduction cost less depreciation. Further, upon the expiration,
termination, surrender, or revocation of any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter, title to all underground conduit and manholes erected or installed and
an automatic assignment of all easements related thereto obtained for use in a
cable communications system under the rights conferred in this chapter shall
pass to the village under its control over its streets, alleys and public
rights-of-way to protect them from things injurious and dangerous to the
public.
   (E)   In areas or portions of the village where transmission or distribution
facilities of public utilities providing telephone service and electric service
are underground, or may be placed underground when installed, any person
granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter shall likewise install, construct,
maintain, and operate its transmission and distribution facilities in like
manner underground to the maximum extent feasible and permitted by existing
technology and conditions, subject to the approval of the Village Director of
Public Works as provided in division (B) above.
   (F)   All construction, installation, maintenance, and operation of any
cable communications system or of any facilities employed in connection
therewith shall be in compliance with the provisions of the National Electrical
Safety Code as prepared by the National Bureau of Standards, the National
Electrical Code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters, the applicable
telephone system's Code of Pole Line Construction, any standards issued by the
Federal Communications Commission or other federal or state regulatory agencies
in relation thereto, and applicable regulations of public utilities operating
in the village. Every cable communications system installed, constructed,
maintained, or operated in the village shall be so designed, constructed,
installed, maintained, and operated as not to endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the village.
   (G)   Any opening or obstruction in, disturbance of or damage to the
streets, alleys, public rights-of-way, or public places by any person in the
exercise of any right granted pursuant to this chapter shall be properly
guarded by adequate barriers, lights, signals, and warnings as to prevent
danger to any person or vehicle using the streets, alleys, public rights-of-
way, or public place and shall be properly and promptly repaired, all in a
manner specified and approved by the Director of Public Works at the
franchisee's expense.
   (H)   Any person owning or maintaining a cable communications system or
facilities therefor in or on the streets, alleys, public rights-of-way, or
public places in the village shall, at its expense and without reimbursement
from the village, upon request of the village, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate, or remove from the street, alley, public right-of-way, or
public place, any property of the person when required by reason of traffic
conditions, public safety, street vacation, freeway or street construction,
change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, water
pipes, power lines, signal lines, tracks, the construction or change of the
transmission or distribution facilities of any telephone or electric public
utility or other public improvements. Any such person shall also, at the
request of any private party holding an appropriate permit issued by the
village, temporarily raise or lower its cable communications transmission or
distribution wires or cables to permit the moving of any building or other
structure, provided that the actual expense of the temporary raising or
lowering shall be paid in full by the party requesting the same.
   (I)   If any person shall fail to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter as hereinbefore set forth
to be done in any street, alley, public right-of-way, or public place as
designated by the village or the Village Director of Public Works, the Director
may cause the work to be done and the person shall pay to the village the cost
thereof within 30 days of the receipt of an itemized statement of the cost.
   (J)   Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter shall commence
construction or installation of its cable communications system within 120 days
after issuance of a certificate of compliance by the Federal Communications
Commission, if such a certificate is required; otherwise within 120 days after
execution of the franchise agreement.
   (K)   Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter shall complete
construction within the areas and within the periods as are designated in the
franchise agreement. Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this chapter
who is unable to construct according to the provisions of this section for
"good cause" shall notify the Village Council, in writing, within 30 days of
the occurrence of any delay or interruption of construction of more than 15
working days duration which interruption or delay would effect its inability to
construct according to schedule.
   (L)   The grantee of the franchise shall be responsible for securing, by
fee, easement, or other means, any necessary right-of-way not under the
jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.09 SERVICE; STANDARDS; MINIMUM CHANNEL CAPABILITY.
   (A)   Any cable communications company granted a franchise pursuant to this
chapter shall install, construct, maintain, and operate its cable
communications system in accordance with the accepted standards of the
industry, in conformity with the state of the art and any standards of
operation or maintenance for a cable communications system which may be
established or issued by the Federal Communications Commission, and shall
maintain and assure its subscribers high quality technical and public cable
communications service.
   (B)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
have at least 300 MHZ of bandwidth or the equivalent of 35 television broadcast
channels, available for immediate or potential use; with a minimum of 21
channels equipped and available for immediate availability to a subscriber upon
completion of the initial construction of the system.
   (C)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
possess the capability for the reception and distribution of quality FM
broadcasts with a minimum of 15 channels equipped and available for use when
the system commences initial service.
   (D)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
maintain and make available the technical capacity for voice or nonvoice return
communications on all parts of the system throughout the term of the franchise
with the extent to which this capability will be made available to a subscriber
specified in the franchise agreement.
   (E)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
maintain and make available without charge at least one channel reserved for
shows and advertising of local origination.
   (F)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
maintain the capacity to interconnect with any other cable communications
system located in any adjacent community.
   (G)   Every cable communications system franchised under this chapter shall
comply with all applicable rules, standards, or requirements imposed by the
Federal Communications Commission or other federal or state agencies or
commissions which may have jurisdiction over the grantee.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 SERVICE; RATES; DISCRIMINATION; FILING SCHEDULES; MAXIMUM RATES;
INCREASE IN RATES; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No cable communications company shall make any unjust or unreasonable
discrimination in rates, charges, classifications, promotions, practices,
regulations, facilities, or services for or in connection with like services,
nor subject any person to any prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever; provided, however, that this shall not be deemed to prohibit the
establishment of a graded scale of charges and classification of rates to which
any subscriber coming within the classification shall be entitled.
   (B)   No rate or charge for installation, basic or optional cable
communications service, provided in the village shall be effective, nor shall
any cable communications company advertise, collect, or receive any rate or
charge for its services, until it shall have filed a complete schedule of rates
and charges with the Village Clerk and until the rates and charges shall have
been approved by the Village Council. The charges made for services of the
franchisee hereunder shall be fair and reasonable and no higher than necessary
to meet all costs incurred in the efficient and economical management of the
system, and provide a fair return to the franchisee. The franchisee shall
receive no consideration whatsoever for its service other than that specified
herein or the franchise agreement, without approval of the Village Council.
   (C)   A cable communications company granted a franchise pursuant to this
chapter shall be permitted to require advance payment for installation fees and
for one month's advance service fee. The franchisee shall require no other
deposit, advance payment, or penalty from any subscriber or potential
subscriber without prior approval of the Village Council and any request
therefor shall specify the reasons for the advance payment, the criteria for
its imposition, the length of time it shall be retained and, further, that the
franchisee shall pay to the subscriber on any required deposit interest at the
rate of 12% per annum until returned or no longer required.
   (D)   No cable communications company granted a franchise pursuant to this
chapter shall be permitted to disconnect or otherwise remove any service
rendered a subscriber for nonpayment of any required fee or the nonperformance
of any other obligation, unless the procedure applicable to the disconnection
is specified in the franchise agreement and is provided in writing to each
subscriber.
   (E)   No cable communications company may increase any rate or charge for
cable communications service contained in its filed schedule, or alter any
classification, contract, rule, regulation, or practice as to result in any
increase in its schedule of rates or charges for the service, without first
filing the new increased rate, charge, or alteration in its classification,
contract, rule, regulation, or practice with the Village Clerk at least 30 days
before the proposed increase or increases in rates or charges is proposed to
become effective, accompanied by a notice and proof of publication thereof for
at least one insertion in a newspaper of general circulation in the village,
which notice shall state the increase or increases proposed. Whenever a cable
communication company files with the Village Clerk a schedule or notice
increasing any rate or charge then in effect, the Village Council, after
reasonable notice, shall promptly conduct a hearing concerning the
reasonableness and lawfulness of the proposed rate increase. The cost of the
publications and public hearing shall be borne by the franchisee. The cable
communications company shall have the burden of establishing the reasonableness
and lawfulness of the proposed increases in its rates and charges. Pending the
hearing and the decision thereon, the Village Council may suspend the operation
of the rates for not longer than six months beyond the time when the changed
rates would otherwise go into effect. If a full and complete hearing has not
been concluded and a decision rendered thereon by the end of the suspension
period, the cable communications company may put the suspended rates or any
part thereof into effect. If the suspended rates thus become effective, the
Village Council, by resolution, may require the cable communications company to
file a bond in a reasonable amount with appropriate sureties, or make other
arrangements satisfactory to the Village Council, for the protection of the
public concerned, conditioned upon the refund as prescribed by action of the
Village Council of the amount of the excess, with interest thereon, if the
charged or increased rates are determined by the Village Council after
conclusion of the hearing to be excessive. During any period when suspended
rates are in effect under bond or other arrangements, the Village Council may
require that the cable communications company involved keep an accurate account
of total payments made under the rates and charges which the cable
communications company has put into effect in excess of the rates and charges
in effect immediately prior thereto. If, after the hearing, the Village Council
finds the proposed, increased, or changed rate or charge to be unjust,
unreasonable, or in violation of the law, it shall be set aside and the Village
Council may fix the rates or charges as will be just, reasonable, and lawful
for the service furnished the public and shall file its conclusions and
findings of fact supporting the decision. In the determination of just,
reasonable, and lawful rates and charges, the Village Council shall consider
and give due weight to all lawful elements properly to be considered, including
expenses, a reasonable return on the cost of the property used in the service,
depreciation, obsolescence, taxes, risks of the business, and value of service
to the customer. A copy of the decision will be served upon the cable
communications company and the rates and charges so fixed by the Village
Council shall be the legal rates and charges until changed as herein provided.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 SERVICE; PROVISION TO VILLAGE; SCHOOLS; PUBLIC EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Every cable communications company furnishing service within the
village shall, without charge for installation or service, provide at least one
installation for its cable communications service to each fire and police
station in the village, and shall, without charge, provide cable communications
service to each public educational building and public library, including any
constructed after grant of the franchise, within the franchisee's current
service area.
   (B)   Every cable communications company providing service within the
village shall make its cable system available, without charge, to the village,
the county, the state, the United States of America, or emergency operations
agencies for each, for the prompt and simultaneous communication to subscribers
and the public within the village of any information resulting from or required
by war, threat of war, natural catastrophe, riot, or insurrection, necessary to
save or protect life or property.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 INDEMNITY; PROOF OF INSURANCE; EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Every cable communications company shall, within 30 days after the
grant of its franchise, pursuant to this chapter, file with the Village Clerk,
and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of
the franchise, at its expense, a corporate surety bond, or such other surety
arrangement as the village may approve, in the amount of $10,000, conditioned
upon the faithful performance by the cable communications company of its
obligations under its franchise as herein set forth, and upon the further
condition that if the cable communications company shall fail to comply with
any provision of this chapter, there shall be recoverable jointly and severally
from the principal and surety of the bond any damages or loss suffered by the
village as a result thereof, including the full amount of any compensation,
indemnification, or cost of removal of any property of the cable communications
company as provided in this chapter plus attorney's fees and costs, up to the
full amount of the bond, the condition to be a continuing obligation for the
duration of any franchise granted under this chapter and any renewal thereof
and thereafter until the cable communications company has liquidated all of its
obligations to the village which may have arisen under the franchise or from
the exercise of any privilege or right granted thereby. Any bond provided under
this section shall provide that at least 30-days' prior notice of any intention
not to renew, to cancel or make a material change therein shall be filed with
the Village Clerk. Nothing herein shall be construed to excuse faithful
performance by any cable communications company or in any way limit its
liability for damages or otherwise. The bond required hereunder may be reduced
by the Village Council in face amount to $1,000 at the time as the franchisee
is actively providing cable communications service to 175 or more subscribers
within the village. The reduction shall be deemed a "material change" in the
bond.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the grant of a franchise pursuant to this chapter,
the franchisee shall file with the Village Clerk, in addition to the bond as
hereinbefore set forth: proof of a general comprehensive liability insurance
policy and an automobile liability insurance policy issued by a company
licensed to do business in this state protecting the village, its officers,
boards, commissions, agents, and employees against liability for loss or damage
for personal injury, death, and property damage, occasioned by the
installation, construction, maintenance, or operation of a cable communications
system in the village with minimum liability limits of $500,000 for personal
injury or death of any one person and $1,000,000 for personal injury or death
of two or more persons in any one occurrence, and $500,000 for the damages to
property resulting from any one occurrence and the policy shall contain a
provision that a written notice of cancellation, or material change or
reduction in coverage, shall be given to the Village Clerk at least 30 days in
advance of the effective date thereof; and proof of any insurance of the
franchisee required under the Michigan Workers Compensation Law.
   (C)   No franchise hereunder shall be effective until the provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) above have been complied with. Failure to file with the
Village Clerk within 30 days after grant of a franchise, the bond, proof of
general comprehensive liability insurance policy, proof of automobile liability
insurance policy, and proof of adequate workers compensation insurance, or any
of them as required by divisions (A) and (B) above shall render the franchise
null and void without notice or further proceedings.
   (D)   The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the village at all
times during the term of the franchise granted hereby and specifically pay all
damages and penalties which the village may be legally required to pay as a
result of granting the franchise. The damages and penalties shall include, but
not be limited to, damages arising out of the installation, operation, or
maintenance of the installation, operation, or maintenance of the cable
communications system authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the franchise and shall
also include the part of the cost of repair or replacement of streets, alleys,
bridges, and other public places and ways as shall arise from construction or
maintenance of the cable communications system. In this case, suit shall be
filed against the village either independently or jointly with the franchisee
to recover for any claim or damages, the franchisee, upon notice to it by the
village, shall defend the village against the action and, in the event of a
final judgment being obtained against the village, either independently or
jointly with the franchisee, solely by reason of the acts of the franchisee,
the franchisee will pay the judgment and all costs, and hold the village
harmless therefrom.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.13 SERVICE; COMPLAINTS; HEARING AND DETERMINATION; PROCEDURE; LOCAL
OFFICE; CREDIT FOR LOSS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Village Council, or any person, department, or commission
designated by it, shall, upon its own motion or upon complaint of any person or
subscriber to cable communications services, have authority to hear and
determine all complaints concerning the rates, charges, rules, regulations,
practices, quality of service rendered or refused to be rendered, equipment
furnished or refused to be furnished, or any other matter relating to the
service or operation of the cable communications system or any person
franchised under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the filing of any complaint against the franchisee pursuant to
division (A) above, the person shall be given at least 20-days' notice of the
time and place of a hearing given upon the matters alleged in the complaint.
The Village Council or its designee shall have the power to order the changes
in the rates, charges, rules, regulations, services, equipment, or other
matters relating to the service or operation of the cable communications
company as in its judgment, based upon the record of the hearing and findings
of fact made thereon, appear to be just, reasonable, and lawful.
   (C)   Any cable communications company granted a franchise pursuant to this
chapter shall maintain a business office or agent available during normal
business hours on a toll-free basis, to subscribers within the village for the
purpose of receiving inquiries or complaints regarding the quality of service,
equipment malfunctions, billing disputes, and similar matters. All complaints
and inquiries will be investigated and responded to as promptly as practical
and, except where circumstances otherwise require, within three business days
of their receipt.
   (D)   Any cable communications company granted a franchise pursuant to this
chapter shall provide for a per diem credit for the period of time any
subscriber loses service which remains unrestored for 24 hours or longer, as
the result of the malfunction of any service equipment owned, operated, or
controlled by the franchisee, or the loss of service through any other cause
not resulting from the mismanagement of or improper use by the subscriber.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.14 PRIORITY OF USE.
   Any right or privilege granted to any person under this chapter to use or
occupy any street, alley, public right-of-way, or public place shall be
subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of the property. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as limiting in any way the village in the lawful
exercise of its police power, and the grant of a franchise to any person as
provided in this chapter shall not confer any other right, privilege, or
exemption not specifically provided for herein.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.15 SURRENDER OF OTHER FRANCHISES.
   By the application for and acceptance of a franchise pursuant to this
chapter, the franchisee agrees that: upon subsequent additions of areas to the
village, by annexation, consolidation, or other means, any and all franchises
or licenses held by it to provide a cable communications service or to install,
construct, maintain, or operate a cable communications system in the areas
shall be surrendered and any rights or privileges in streets, alleys, public
rights-of-way, or public places to install, construct, maintain, or operate a
cable communications system or to furnish a cable communications service in the
areas as may subsequently be added to the village by annexation, consolidation,
or other means, shall thereafter be subject to and authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.16 REPORTS.
   Every cable communications company shall file annually with the Village
Clerk a current map showing the exact location of the transmission and
distribution facilities, lines, and equipment in the village used by it in
providing cable communications service, a map listing the addresses of all
subscribers to the system in the village, and further, shall prepare and
furnish the village on written request therefor, at the times and in the form
as may be prescribed, the reports as to its operations, finances, facilities,
and activities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the village to perform
its obligations, functions, and duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.17 RIGHTS OF VILLAGE.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter is made subject to all applicable
provisions of law relating to the village and ordinances thereof, and
specifically subject to the rights and powers of the village and limitations
upon the cable communications company holding the franchise as are set forth in
the statutes of the state pertaining to local government, which are herein
incorporated by reference, and the cable communications company shall abide by
and be bound by the rights, powers, and limitations, and any franchise granted
under this chapter constitutes and shall be considered as a public utility
franchise and a cable communications company shall be deemed to be a public
utility.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.18 CABLE COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS; FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Any time after the effective date of this chapter the Village Council
may establish, by resolution, a commission to be known as the Cable
Communications Commission.
   (B)   Any commission so established shall consist of five residents of the
village appointed by the President and approved by the Council. Each member
shall serve for a term of three years. Any vacancy in any commission office
shall be filled by the President for the remainder of the term. Members of the
commission shall receive payment for attendance at any meeting or performance
of any function as the Council may establish by resolution. No employee of or
person with ownership interest in a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter
shall be eligible for membership on the commission.
   (C)   The commission shall meet at the times as the Council may establish by
resolution and shall perform those functions as it shall from time to time be
assigned by resolution of the Village Council or assigned to it by the
franchise agreement, including, but not limited thereto, planning and assisting
in the development and broadcast of locally originated programming, resolution
of disputes, and investigation and review of rate changes or modifications.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.19 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   Section headings as set forth in this chapter are for convenience only and
shall not be considered a part hereof nor be used to construe any provisions
herein more broadly or narrowly than its text would indicate.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 20 days after its adoption but not
before its publication subsequent to final adoption, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
113.03 or
113.04(A) shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine: the fees and/
or penalties charged in connection with these sections shall be set by a
resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 83, passed 8-4-1980)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License requirement
   
114.03   Application procedure
   
114.04   Standards for issuance
   
114.05   Revocation procedure
   
114.06   Standards for revocation
   
114.07   Appeal procedure
   
114.08   Exhibition of identification
   
114.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
114.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
114.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
114.12   Prohibited solicitation
   
114.13   Exceptions
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by the chapter shall be adopted by
the resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 114.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
114.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 114.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 114.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
114.04 or
114.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Council. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Village Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Village Council shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
114.05.
   (B)   The order of the Village Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 114.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 114.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   "NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 114.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
114.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
114.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers or employees of
the village, county, state or federal government; or any subdivison thereof,
when on official business. Nonprofit organizations shall register with the
Village Clerk but shall not be required to pay a license fee.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT; CURFEWS
         
131.   FIREARMS
         
132.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; CURFEWS
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly person
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Exclusions
   
130.04   Parental responsibility
   
130.05   Curfew
   
130.06   Definitions
   
130.07   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY PERSON.
   A DISORDERLY PERSON shall be any person who does any act or engages in any
practice constituting disorderly conduct enumerated in §
130.02, and any person who shall aid and abet another to do the act or engage
in any such practice.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   The following constitutes disorderly conduct:
   (A)   Any person, 17 years of age or older, who accosts, solicits, or
invites another in any public place, or in or from any building or vehicle, by
word, gesture, or any other means, to commit prostitution or to do any other
lewd or immoral act;
   (B)   A person who peeps or peers into windows of any inhabited place;
   (C)   A person who engages in an illegal occupation or business;
   (D)   A person who is intoxicated in a public place and endangering directly
the safety of the public;
   (E)   A person who engages in indecent or obscene conduct in a public place,
including, but not limited to, the exhibition of his or her genitalia or
buttocks;
   (F)   A person who urinates or defecates in public;
   (G)   A person who spits or expectorates on, at, or toward another person in
a public place;
   (H)   A person who knowingly loiters in or about a place where an illegal
occupation or business is being conducted;
   (I)   A person who trespasses upon the premises of another or unlawfully
remains on the premises of another without permission or authority of the
lawful occupants or an agent of the lawful occupants;
   (J)   A person who possesses or consumes any controlled substance or any
open intoxicant or consumes alcoholic beverages, beer, liquor, or spirits while
in or upon a public street, sidewalk, or public place;
   (K)   A person who makes or continues any loud or unnecessary noise which
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or
safety of others within the limits of the village, including, but not limited
to:
      (1)   Sounding any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle,
bus, or other vehicle for reason other than as a signal in response to an
imminent danger and implemented as an immediate safety measure, for an
unnecessary and unreasonable duration, or unreasonably loudly or harshly;
      (2)   Playing or amplifying any radio, phonograph, stereo, tape or disc
player, car stereo, musical instrument, or other electronic sound-producing
device in such a manner or with the volume so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of persons in any place of business or any dwelling, hotel,
or other type of residence, or of any persons in the immediate vicinity. The
operation of any such device in a manner so as to be plainly heard;
      (3)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on a public
street or sidewalk at any time or place, including private property, so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in any place of
business, or any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons
in the immediate vicinity; and/or
      (4)   Intentionally squealing the tires of any motor vehicle.
   (L)   A person who discharges any firearm, air rifle, bow and arrow,
slingshot, crossbow, or other dangerous weapon within the village, except those
areas zoned for agricultural use;
   (M)   A person who throws or propels any snowball, missile, or object toward
or from any person or vehicle;
   (N)   A person who prowls, loiters, loafs, stands, or remains idle in public
areas or privately owned facilities open to the public, including:
      (1)   Prowling about the premises of another person in the nighttime
without authority or permission of the owner of the premises or without
authority or permission of the lawful occupants of the premises or an agent of
the lawful occupants;
      (2)   Engaging in any unwarranted loitering in any parking lot or parking
garage, whether publicly or privately owned;
      (3)   Obstructing a public street, highway, sidewalk, place, or building
by hindering, impeding, or threatening to hinder or impede the free and
uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians therein or thereon;
      (4)   Obstructing or interfering with the free and uninterrupted use of
property or business lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing, or fronting
any such public street, highway, sidewalk, place, or building so as to prevent
the free and uninterrupted ingress or egress thereto or therefrom; and who
refuses or failing forthwith to obey an order by a police officer or any law
enforcement officer to cease the conduct and to move and disperse;
      (5)   Creating circumstances which warrant alarm for the safety of
persons or property and, upon the appearance of a peace officer, taking flight,
manifestly endeavoring to conceal oneself, or upon inquiry by a peace officer,
refusing to give identification or give a reasonable, credible account of his
or her conduct and purposes; and/or
      (6)   Manifestly endeavoring to conceal oneself, or upon inquiry by a
peace officer, refusing to be identified or give a reasonable, credible account
of any conduct and purpose.
   (O)   A person who destroys property, including:
      (1)   Willfully destroying, taking, damaging, altering, or in any manner
defacing any property of another, or removing the same from any building or
place where it may be kept, placed, or stored without proper authority;
      (2)   Destroying, taking, disconnecting, tampering, or meddling with any
utility meter or any property belonging to the village or any public utility
company;
      (3)   Using any paint, spray paint, pigment, or similar means to injure,
deface, or destroy public property or the private property of another,
including the making of any drawing, inscription, design, scribbling, motto,
picture, pictograph, or other markings commonly referred to as graffiti; and/or
      (4)   To knowingly, without the consent of the public authority having
supervision of public property or the owner of private property, to dump,
deposit, place, throw, or leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing,
placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on public or private property or water
other than properties designated and set aside for the purposes. The phrase
"public or private property or water" includes, but is not limited to, the
right-of-way of a road or highway, a parking area for vehicles, a body of water
or water course, or the shore or beach thereof, including the ice above the
water; a park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation
area; and residential or farm properties or timberlands. The term LITTER
includes, but is not limited to, refuse, debris, garbage, junk, rubbish,
sweepings, swill, or waste.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   None of the terms or prohibitions of §
130.02 shall apply to or be enforced against:
   (A)   The operation of any vehicle in the village while engaged upon
necessary public business; and/or
   (B)   Excavation or repairs of bridges, streets, highways, or water mains by
official personnel.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 130.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No parent, guardian, or other person having charge, guardianship,
custody, or control of any minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly
permit the minor to violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any minor under the age of 18 years shall
fail to exercise reasonable parental control over the minor.
   (C)   An adjudication that a minor has violated a provision of this chapter,
whether a misdemeanor or civil infraction, shall be prima facie evidence that
the minor's parent or guardian failed to exercise reasonable parental control.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   Under age 13. No minor under the age of 13 years shall loiter, idle,
or congregate in or on any public or private street, highway, alley, parking
facility, or public facility/park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., except where the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an
adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor; where the
minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by a parent or
guardian; or where the minor is coming or going from an organized civic
function.
   (B)   Thirteen years of age and older, but under the age of 16 years. No
minor 13 years of age and older, but under the age of 16 years, shall loiter,
idle, or congregate in or on any public or private street, highway, alley,
parking facility, or public facility/park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m., except where the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an
adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor; where the
minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by a parent or
guardian; or where the minor is coming or going from an organized civic
function.
   (C)   Under 18 years of age. No minor 16 years of age and older, but under
the age of 18 years shall not loiter, idle, or congregate in or on any public
or private street, highway, alley, parking facility, or public facility/park
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 am., except where the minor is
accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an adult delegated by the parent or
guardian to accompany the minor; where the minor is upon an errand or other
legitimate business directed by his or her parent or guardian or where the
minor is coming or going from an organized civic function.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any human being, partnership, corporation, or other business entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 130.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon publication, except the penalty
provisions which shall become effective 20 days after publication, pursuant to
M.C.L.A. § 66.1.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, as set forth under §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
130.04 shall be a municipal civil infraction, as set forth under §
10.99.
   (C)   Any violation of §
130.05 shall result in the following punishment to the violating minor and his
or her parent or guardian:
      (1)   First offense, verbal warning to both parent or guardian and minor;
      (2)   Second offense, written warning to both parent or guardian and
minor;
      (3)   Third offense, both parent or guardian and minor receive a
municipal civil infraction ticket, as set forth under §
10.99; and
      (4)   Fourth and subsequent offenses, both parent or guardian and minor
are guilty of a misdemeanor, as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 148, passed 3-2-1998)
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Unlawful to discharge firearms
   
131.02   Police and military exception
   
131.03   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or use any firearms, air
rifles, slingshots, or any other dangerous weapons within the village limits at
any time, except within those areas of the village zoned A-1 Agricultural under
the provisions of
Chapter 153, as amended, where the discharge of firearms for the hunting of
wild game shall be permitted so long as the activity does not violate any
applicable state law to the contrary.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-14-1970; Ord. 97, passed 11-13-1984) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 POLICE AND MILITARY EXCEPTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to any peace officer or military
personnel acting in the official discharge of their duties.
   (B)   Nor shall this chapter apply to any citizen acting in reasonable
defense of his or her person or property.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-14-1970)
§ 131.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days from and after the passage thereof.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-14-1970)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-14-1970)
CHAPTER 132: FIREWORKS
Section
   
132.01   Fireworks
§ 132.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   In this section, the term FIREWORKS means a device made from explosive
or flammable compositions used primarily for the purpose of producing a visible
display or audible effect, or both, by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
Fireworks includes consumer fireworks and display fireworks, which terms are
defined as follows:
      (1)   Consumer fireworks. Consumer fireworks means fireworks devices that
are designed to produce visible effects by combustion, that are required to
comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations
promulgated by the United States consumer product safety commission under 16
CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and that are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2,
3.1.3, or 3.5.
      (2)   Display fireworks. Display fireworks means large fireworks devices
that are explosive materials intended for use in fireworks displays and
designed to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation, as provided in 27 CFR 555.11,49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1,4.1.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall, within
the city limits, ignite, discharge, or use any consumer fireworks. The use of
the following are not prohibited:
      (1)   Sparklers containing not more than 0.0125 pounds of burning portion
per sparkler;
      (2)   Toy snakes not containing mercury; and
      (3)   Flat paper caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive content per cap.
   (C)   Use permits for display fireworks may be issued for community-
sponsored events for the public benefit providing application is made and
approved prior to the event by the Council and public service director.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit the ignition, discharge, or use of
consumer fireworks on the following days after 11:00 a.m., so long as an
officially- authorized burning restriction is not in force:
      (1)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
      (2)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day, until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (3)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (4)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.
      (5)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until 11:45
p.m. on each of those days.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable by a civil fine of $1,000.00
for each violation, and no other fine or sanction, of which $500.00 of the fine
collected shall be remitted to the Ingham County Sheriff as the law enforcement
agency responsible for enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 132, passed 2-10-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
152.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
         
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.01   Definition
   
150.02   Notice to owner
   
150.03   Posting of signs
   
150.04   Village's right to demolish
   
150.05   Costs
Swimming Pool Fences
   
150.20   Swimming pool fence required
   
150.21   Building Inspector's duties
   
150.22   Offenses
   
150.23   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE BUILDINGS. All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe
or not provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in existing use are a hazard to
safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, or abandonment are hereby defined as
UNSAFE BUILDINGS, and all the buildings are hereby declared to be public
nuisances. All UNSAFE BUILDINGS shall be demolished or removed.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-14-1970) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall inspect any building that is reported
unsafe as defined in this subchapter, and if the building is found to be
unsafe, a notice shall be given to the owner thereof stating the defects of the
building. This notice may require the owner or person in charge of the building
or premises, within five days, to commence either the required repairs or
improvements or demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions
thereof, and all the work shall be completed within 90 days from date of
notice, unless otherwise stipulated by the Building Inspector. If necessary,
the notice also shall require the building, structure, or portion thereof to be
vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Proper service of the notice shall be by personal service upon the
owner of record, if he or she shall be found within the village limits. If he
or she is not found within the village limits, the service may be made upon the
owner by registered mail or certified mail; provided, that if the service is by
registered or certified mail, the designated period within which the owner or
person in charge is required to comply with the order of the Building Inspector
shall begin as of the date he or she receives the notice.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-14-1970) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
the building a notice to read:
   "DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY, BUILDING DEPARTMENT, VILLAGE OF
WEBBERVILLE."
   (B)   The notice shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition,
or removal are completed.
   (C)   The notice shall not be removed without written permission of the
Building Inspector, and no person shall enter the building except for the
purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the building.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-14-1970) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 VILLAGE'S RIGHT TO DEMOLISH.
   In case the owner shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the notice
to repair, or to demolish and remove, the building or structure or portion
thereof, the owner of the building may be prosecuted as a violator of the
provisions of this subchapter, and the Village Council may cause the same to be
done or order the Building Inspector to proceed with the work specified in the
notice.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-14-1970; Ord. 80, passed 4-7-1980)
§ 150.05 COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incurred under §
150.04 shall be paid out of the village treasury and charged upon the lot or
premises and collected as a special assessment thereon, or the costs and
expenses may be recovered by the village in a suit at law against the owner or
occupant of any such lot or premises.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-14-1970; Ord. 80, passed 4-7-1980)
SWIMMING POOL FENCES
§ 150.20 SWIMMING POOL FENCE REQUIRED.
   Every swimming pool in the village shall be completely surrounded by a fence
or wall not less than six feet in height, which shall be constructed as to not
have openings, holes, or gaps larger than four inches in any dimension, except
for doors and gates; and if a picket fence is erected and maintained, the
horizontal dimension shall not exceed four inches. A dwelling house or
accessory building may be used as part of the enclosure. All gates or doors
opening through the enclosure shall be equipped with a self-closing and self-
latching devise for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times when
not in actual use, except that the door or any dwelling which forms part of the
enclosure need not be so equipped. This requirement shall be applicable to all
new swimming pools which have a depth of 18 inches or more of water at any
point and shall apply to all existing pools which have a depth of 18 inches or
more of water at any point. No person in possession of land within the village,
either as owner, proprietor, possessor, lessee, tenant, licensee, or renter,
upon which is situated a swimming pool having a depth of 18 inches or more of
water at any point shall fail to provide and maintain the fence or wall as
herein provided within 20 days after the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-2-1971) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 BUILDING INSPECTOR'S DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector shall inspect or cause to be inspected all pools
within the village at the times as he or she may deem necessary to carry out
the intent of this subchapter. Before a newly constructed pool may be used,
notice of completion of the fence shall be given to the Building Inspector, who
shall then inspect the fence, and if the fence is satisfactory, he or she shall
so notify the owner or the lessee. The Building Inspector or his or her duly
authorized agents are hereby authorized to enter upon any premises in the
village, private, semi-private, or public, at the times as he or she may deem
necessary, to require the owner, proprietor, possessor, lessee, tenant,
licensee, or renter to comply with the requirements of this subchapter. A
notice of any and all defects shall be given to the person in charge of the
pool, a copy of which shall be posted on the premises, and a copy furnished to
the village. The notice shall constitute a suspension of the use of the pool.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-2-1971)
§ 150.22 OFFENSES.
   Any person who fails to maintain the fence or wall surrounding a swimming
pool in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, or who fails to
keep the gate or door in the fence or wall securely closed at all times when
the gate or door is not in actual use or keep the swimming pool so that the
swimming pool is unaccessible to children, when not in use, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and punished in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-2-1971) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days from date of enactment.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-2-1971)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   The fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this chapter shall be
set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adopted Codes
   
151.01   International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.02   State Construction Code
   
151.03   Village Design Standards
   
151.04   Floodplain management provisions of State Construction Code
Administration
   
151.20   Construction Board of Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
ADOPTED CODES
§ 151.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Village Clerk, marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is
adopted along with all future amendments and revisions to the code, as the
Property Maintenance Code of the village; for the control of buildings and
structures as provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions, and terms of the Property Maintenance Code are referred
to, adopted, and made a part, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are revised.
      (1)   Section 101.1. Title. "These regulations shall be known as the
Properly Maintenance Code of the Village of Webberville, referred to as "this
code"."
      (2)   Section 103.6. Fees. "The fees for activities and services
performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this
code shall be the same as those established by the Village Council for the
Building Code."
      (3)   Section 303.14. Insect screens. "During the period from March 1 to
December 1, every door, window and other outside opening required for
ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas, or
any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16
mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition."
      (4)   Section 602.3. Heat supply. "Every owner and operator of any
building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit,
dormitory or guestroom on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat
to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from September 1
to May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees F (18 degrees C)
in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms. Exception: When the
outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design temperature for the
locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall not be required
provided that the heating system is operating at its full design capacity. The
winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall be as indicated in
Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code."
      (5)   Section 602.4. Occupiable work spaces. "Indoor occupiable work
spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to April 1
to maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees F (18 degrees C) during
the period the spaces are occupied. Exceptions: 1. Processing, storage and
operation areas that require cooling or special temperature conditions. 2.
Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical activities."
   (C)   Nothing in this section or in the Property Maintenance Code adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
already acquired or existing, nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of
any character be lost, impaired, or affected by this section.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this section, and
cause the same to be published as required by law; and this section shall take
effect and be in force from and after its publication and posting.
(Ord. 176, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 151.02 STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to the provisions of the Stille-DeRossett-Hale
Single State Construction Code Act, Public Act No. 230 of 1972 (M.C.L. A. §
125.1501 et seq.), the Michigan State Construction Code is hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   References in code. References in the Michigan State Construction Code
to “State” and “Michigan” shall mean the State of Michigan; references to
“municipality” shall mean the Village of Webberville; references to “local
ordinances” shall mean ordinances of the Village of Webberville and references
to “building officials” shall mean Building Director, Building Official,
Building Inspector, or the deputy of the Village of Webberville.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement of state construction code act and
code. The village assumes and shall be responsible for administering and
enforcing the single state construction code act, Public Act No. 230 of 1972
(M.C.L.A. § 125.1501 et seq.), and state construction code prepared and
promulgated as provided in that Act (referred to in this chapter as the state
construction code and act within the boundaries of the village).
   (D)   Code appendix enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be
enforced by the Village Building Official within the village.
   (E)   Enforcing agency. The Village Building Department, its Building
Director, its Chief Building Inspector, building officials, inspectors,
administrative, plan review and inspection personnel and consultants,
enforcement officers and personnel and consultants of the Village Building
Department that perform acts or provide services in the administration and
enforcement of the state construction code and act, are hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the village to
administer and enforce the state construction code and act.
   (F)   Village Council review. The Village Council shall conduct the review
for permit issuance pursuant to Section G104 of the state construction code
Appendix G for any proposed development in the village within the flood hazard
areas delineated on the flood insurance study (FIS) and flood insurance rate
maps (FIRMs) set forth in this section. The Village Council review will focus
on whether development in the floodplain should be permitted pursuant to
Sections G301 through G701 of Appendix G based on compliance with state
construction code requirements. The Village Building Official shall review and
approve the building plans pursuant to the state construction code as part of
the building permit issuance. Applications for variances from decisions made by
the Village Council shall be made to the Village Zoning Board of Appeals
pursuant to Section G105 of Appendix G. Applications for variances from
decisions made by the Village Building Official shall be made to the Village
Construction Board of Appeals pursuant to Section G105 of Appendix G.
   (G)   Fees. Permit, contractor registration and inspection fees for
enforcement of the state construction code shall be as currently established or
as hereafter adopted by resolution of the Village Council from time to time.
   (H)   Construction Board of Appeals. A village Construction Board of Appeals
shall be created and consist of three members who shall be appointed by the
Village Council for two-year terms. The Construction Board of Appeals is
granted the powers and duties set forth in Public Act No. 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1501 et seq.
   (I)   Violations. Any person erecting, using, moving, demolishing, occupying
or maintaining any building or structure in violation of state construction
code or causing, permitting or suffering any such violation to be committed,
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to the penalties
set forth below. In addition, any building or structure erected, used, moved,
demolished, occupied or maintained in violation of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se. Upon application to a court of competent
jurisdiction, the court may order the nuisance abated or the violation, or
threatened violation restrained or enjoined.
      (1)   Fines. The following civil fines shall apply in the event of a
determination of responsibility for a municipal civil infraction, unless a
different fine is specified in connection with a particular ordinance:
         (a)   First offense. The civil fine for a first offense violation
shall be in an amount of $75, plus costs and other sanctions, for each offense.
         (b)   Repeat offense. The civil fine for any offense which is a repeat
offense shall be in an amount of $150, plus costs and other sanctions for each
offense.
      (2)   Enforcement. In addition to ordering the defendant determined to be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction to pay a civil fine, costs,
damages and expenses, the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any
judgment, writ or order necessary to enforce, or enjoin violation, of this
section.
      (3)   Continuing offense. Each act of violation, and on each day upon
which any such violation shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (4)   Remedies not exclusive. In addition to any remedies provided for by
this section, any equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
         (a)   The judge or magistrate shall be authorized to impose costs,
damages and expenses as provided by law.
         (b)   A municipal civil infraction shall not be a lesser included
offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation which is not a civil
infraction.
   (J)   Repeal. All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this
section are hereby repealed.
   (K)   Effective date. This section shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 222, passed 5-14-2013)
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Board of Appeals, see M.C.L.A. § 125.1514
Cross-reference:
   Floodplain management provisions of State Construction Code, see §
151.04
§ 151.03 VILLAGE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Village design standards. All public improvements, whether performed
by the village or its designee or the owner or developer of any property in the
village, shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the following
provisions of the Village Design Standards for the Village of Webberville,
Ingham County, Michigan, May 14, 2008, prepared by Ledy Design Group the terms
of which are specifically incorporated by reference as if restated in their
entirety:
Section Page
Section                                                   Page
General information and general construction requirements 1-1 to 1-5
Sanitary sewer systems                                    2-1 to 2-10
Sanitary force mains and lift stations                    3-1 to 3-8
Water main                                                4-1 to 4-11
Storm water management                                    5-1 to 5-2
Special provisions                                        6-1 to 6-9
Streets and roadways                                      7-1 to 7-10
Soil erosion and sedimentation control                    8-1 to 8-2
Sample municipal agreement                                9-1 to 9-9
Standard construction details                             10-1 to 10-11
 
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall take effect immediately upon
publication.
   (C)   Driveway approaches. Section VII of the Village of Webberville Design
Standards is amended to read as follows:
      4. Driveway Approaches - All driveway approaches between the curb and
gutter or edge of pavement and the right-of-way shall be concrete or
bituminous. Concrete driveway approaches for residential sections shall be six
inches (6”) thick and ten inches (10”) thick for commercial driveways.
Bituminous driveways shall conform to the pavement cross sections for road
design. The maximum grade on driveway approaches shall be ten percent (10%) and
the minimum grade shall be one-half percent (0.50%) unless site conditions
dictate otherwise.
      A driveway culvert may be required as site conditions dictate. Driveway
culverts shall meet the requirements of the Ingham County Road Commission.
      A separate permit for driveway approaches must be obtained from the
Village prior to commencing construction. All elements of the driveway permit
shall be adhered to.
         A.   Residential Driveways:
            i.   The number of residential driveways that may be permitted
shall be determined as follows:
               a.   One residential driveway for each platted lot.
               b.   One residential driveway for each unplatted residential
property with less than 100 feet of frontage.
               c.   Additional driveways may be permitted by special request
for property with more than 100 feet of frontage provided that the driveways
are at least 45 feet apart edge to edge.
               d.   Corner lots may have access points on more than one street
subject to the appropriate setback criteria.
            ii.   Residential driveways shall be a minimum of ten feet (10’) to
a maximum of twenty-four feet (24’) in width.
            iii.   Residential driveways must be a minimum of five feet (5’)
from any side lot line and shall be set back a minimum distance of twenty-five
feet (25’) from any street intersection measured from the closest point of the
driveway approach to the closest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
            iv.   The dimensions of a residential driveway shall conform to
Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 2 included in Section X of these standards.
      B.   Commercial Driveways:
      Requirements for commercial driveways shall conform to the requirements
described in the Ingham County Road Commission “Rules, Standards and Procedures
for Driveways, Banners and Parades Upon or Over Ingham County Road Commission
Right-of-Way.”
(Ord. 204, passed 10-20-2008; Ord. 208, passed 11-9-2009) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the State
Construction Code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the State Bureau of
Construction Codes is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge
the responsibility of the Village of Webberville under Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The State Bureau of Construction
Codes assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said act
throughout the corporate limits of the community adopting this section.
   (B)   Code Appendix enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be
enforced by the enforcing agency within the Village of Webberville.
   (C)   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS) entitled “Ingham
County, Michigan (all jurisdictions)” and dated 8/16/11 and the Flood Insurance
Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 26065C; 0212D, 0215D, 0216D, 0217D and
0220D dated 8/16/11 are adopted by reference for the purposes of administration
of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to be a part of Section 1612.3
of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the content of the “Flood
Hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 215, passed 8-8-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.20 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation. A Village of Webberville Construction Board of Appeals shall
be created and consist of three members who shall be appointed by the Village
Council for two-year terms.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Construction Board of Appeals is granted the
powers and duties set forth in Public Act No. 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §
125.1501 et seq.
   (C)   Compensation. All members of the Construction Board of Appeals shall
serve as such with compensation as established by resolution of the Village
Council.
(Ord. 223, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. The fees and/or penalties charged in connection with this
chapter shall be set by a resolution of the Village Council on an annual basis.
   (B)   Design standards. The violation of any provision of §
151.03 shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates any provision of
§
151.03, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both. Each day any violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. The penalties shall be in addition to
any civil remedies available to the village to compel compliance or restrain
any violation of §
151.03 for the village.
(Ord. 204, passed 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Scope
   
152.04   Preliminary plat
   
152.05   Tentative approval of preliminary plat
   
152.06   Final approval of preliminary plat
   
152.07   Preparation of final plat and submission to Village Clerk
   
152.08   Council approval or rejection of final plat
   
152.09   Street, alley, and road requirements
   
152.10   Subdivision design standards
   
152.11   Public improvement requirements
   
152.12   Guarantee of completion of required improvements
   
152.13   Fees
   
152.14   Public review and inspection fees
   
152.15   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Village of Webberville
Subdivision Control Ordinance."
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the subdivision of
land within the village, pursuant to the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision
proposed to be created and recorded by or after the effective date of this
chapter. It shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision
created and approved prior to the effective date of this chapter except for
further division of existing lots.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.04 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Generally. Before making or submitting a final plat for approval, the
proprietor shall make a preliminary plat and submit copies to the Village Clerk
in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The preliminary plat shall show the name, location, and position of
the subdivision and the subdivision plan and layout in sufficient detail on a
topographic map to enable a determination of whether the subdivision meets all
village requirements for lots, streets, roads, and highways, including drainage
and floodplains.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not more than 200
feet to one inch and may be an original drawing or reproduction on unbacked
paper. It shall contain proper identification of the parcel of land to be
divided, the name of the plat and proposed division of the land, the name and
address of the proprietor, and the name, address, and seal of the surveyor who
prepared it, all legibly printed or typewritten. Additional preliminary land
development plans may be made by other qualified persons to assist approving
authorities to visualize the type and scope of the development planned.
      (3)   The proprietor may request that a preapplication review meeting
take place by submitting a written request to the chairperson of the county
plat board and submitting copies of a concept plan for the preliminary plat to
the municipality and to each officer or agency entitled to review the
preliminary plat under M.C.L.A. §§ 560.113 to 560.118. A preapplication review
meeting shall take place not later than 30 days after the written request and
concept plan are received. The meeting shall be attended by the proprietor,
representatives of each officer or agency entitled to review the preliminary
plat under M.C.L.A. §§ 560.113, 560.114, and 560.118, and a representative of
the municipality. Representatives of each agency entitled to review the
preliminary plat under M.C.L.A. §§ 560.115 to 560.117 shall be informed of the
meeting and may attend. The purpose of the meeting is to conduct an informal
review of the proprietor's concept plan for the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.05 TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The Village Council, within 90 days from the date of filing the
preliminary plat with the Village Clerk, shall tentatively approve and note its
approval on the copy of the preliminary plat to be returned to the proprietor
or set forth in writing its reasons for rejection and requirements for
tentative approval. The Village Council may refer the proposed plat to the
Downtown Development Authority for its review and comment or a committee
appointed by the Village Council for that purpose and may hold a public hearing
on approval of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   The Village Council may require the submission of the following as it
deems necessary:
      (1)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
plat is a portion of a larger holding intended for later development;
      (2)   Preliminary engineering plans for streets; water, sanitary, and
storm sewers; sidewalks; and other required public improvements in detail
sufficient to enable the Village Council to make a preliminary determination of
conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable village regulations and
standards;
      (3)   A statement of intended use of the proposed plat; and/or
      (4)   Copies, as required, of any proposed protective covenants and deed
restrictions.
   (C)   Tentative approval under this section shall confer upon the proprietor
for a period of one year from the date, approval of lot sizes, lot orientation,
and street layout. The tentative approval may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor and granted by the governing body in writing.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.06 FINAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The proprietor shall:
      (1)   Submit a preliminary plat to all authorities as required by §§ 112
through 119 of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293;
      (2)   Submit a list of all the authorities to the Village Clerk
certifying that the list shows all authorities required to be so notified; and
      (3)   Submit all approved copies to the Village Clerk after all necessary
approvals have been secured.
   (B)   The Village Council, after receipt of the necessary approved copies of
the preliminary plat, shall:
      (1)   Consider and review the preliminary plat at its next meeting or
within 20 days from the date of submission and approve it if the proprietor has
met all conditions laid down for approval of the preliminary plat;
      (2)   Instruct the Clerk to promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection, in writing, and if rejected, to give the reasons; and
      (3)   Instruct the Clerk to note all proceedings in the minutes of the
meeting, which minutes shall be open for inspection.
   (C)   Final approval of the preliminary plat under this section shall confer
upon the proprietor for a period of two years from the date of approval, the
conditional right that the general terms and conditions under which preliminary
approval was granted, will not be changed. The two-year period may be extended
if applied for by the proprietor and granted by the Village Council in writing.
Written notice of the extension shall be sent by the Village Council to the
other approving authorities.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.07 PREPARATION OF FINAL PLAT AND SUBMISSION TO VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Following final approval of the preliminary plat by the Village
Council, the proprietor shall cause to be made and prepared a final plat and
survey in accordance with §§ 131 through 165 of the Land Division Act, Public
Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   (B)   When the final plat has been approved by the Drain Commissioner and
the County Road Commissioners, if necessary, the proprietor shall submit all
copies of the plat to the Village Clerk, together with the filing fee required
by §
152.13.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.08 COUNCIL APPROVAL OR REJECTION OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   At its next regular meeting or a meeting called within 20 days of the
date of submission, the Village Council shall:
      (1)   Approve the plat if it conforms to all of the provisions of the
Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, and this chapter and instruct the Village Clerk to certify on the plat
to the Village Council's approval, showing the date of the Council approval,
the approval of the Health Department, when required, and the date thereof as
shown on the approved preliminary plat; or
      (2)   Reject the plat and instruct the Village Clerk to give the reasons
in writing as set forth in the minutes of the meeting and return the plat to
the proprietor.
   (B)   The Village Council shall instruct the Clerk to record all proceedings
in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for inspection.
   (C)   When approved by the Village Council, the Village Clerk shall promptly
forward all copies of the plat to the Clerk of the Ingham County Plat Board,
together with the filing and recording fee collected pursuant to §
152.13.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.09 STREET, ALLEY, AND ROAD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Council may require the following as a condition for
approval of a final plat for all public and private streets, alleys, and roads
in its jurisdiction:
      (1)   Conformance to the general plans, requirements, and all other
provisions contained in §
151.03;
      (2)   Installation of bridges and culverts where it deems necessary;
      (3)   Submission of complete plans for grading, drainage, and
construction to be prepared and sealed by a civil engineer registered in the
state; and/or
      (4)   Completion of all required improvements relative to streets,
alleys, or roads or a deposit by the proprietor with the Village Clerk in the
form of cash, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, whichever
the proprietor selects, or a performance surety bond acceptable to the Village
Council, in an amount sufficient to ensure completion within the time
specified.
   (B)   As a condition of approval of the final plat, the Village Council may
require a deposit to be made in the same manner as provided in division (A)(4)
above to ensure performance of any of the obligations of the proprietor to make
required improvements.
   (C)   The Village Council shall rebate to the proprietor as the work
progresses, amounts of any cash deposits equal to the ratio of the work
completed to the entire project.
   (D)   The Village Council shall:
      (1)   Reject any plat which is isolated from or which isolates other
lands from existing public streets unless suitable access is provided;
      (2)   Reject any plat showing a street or road named duplicating one
already in use in the village except in continuing a street or road; and
      (3)   Reject any plat showing the name of a new street, alley, or road
that is so similar to the one already in existence in the village, that
permitting the use in the subdivision may be confusing for purposes of
assessing, mail delivery, and locating by the public.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.10 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Where applicable, the proposed subdivision and final plat shall fully comply
with the following:
   (A)   The Village Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance No. 55, enacted 4-8-1974;
   (B)   Section
151.03 of this code;
   (C)   The Village Water System Ordinance, Ordinance No. 30, enacted 8-19-
1957;
   (D)   The Village Wastewater Ordinance, Ordinance No. 43, enacted 5-12-1969;
and
   (E)   Section 186 of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, unless modified by any of the above.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   Accessible water supply. Where a public water supply system is
accessible to the subdivision, provisions shall be made by the proprietor to
supply each lot in the subdivision with water from the public supply by means
of a water supply system which meets current village specifications and the
provisions, where applicable, of this code.
      (2)   Nonaccessible water supply. Where a public water supply system is
not accessible to the subdivision by reason of absence of feeder mains, the
proprietor shall bear the cost of installation of a new feeder main from the
source of supply to the subdivision in accordance with the current village
specifications or in accordance with an agreement entered into between the
village and the proprietor.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   Accessible sewer system. Where a public sanitary sewer system is
reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivision shall be provided with a
connection. All connections shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer and all materials used in the system shall meet current village
specifications.
      (2)   Nonaccessible sewer system. In the event that a public sanitary
sewer is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision, the proprietor shall pay
the cost of extending the sanitary sewer lines from the area platted to the
nearest public sanitary sewer trunk line of capacity adequate to carry the
additional flow. In addition, the proprietor shall install public sanitary
sewer facilities within the platted area in accordance with the current village
specifications.
   (C)   Storm drainage system.
      (1)   Accessible public drainage system. Where a storm drain is
reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivided area shall be provided
with a connection. All connections shall be subject to the approval of the
Village Engineer and all materials used in the system shall meet current
Village or County Drain Commissioner's specifications.
      (2)   Nonaccessible public drainage system. In the event that a public
storm drain is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision, at the option of
the Village Council, the proprietor shall pay the cost of extending the storm
sewer lines from the area platted to the nearest public storm sewer trunk of a
size adequate to carry the additional flow and install public storm drainage
facilities within the platted area in accordance with current village
specifications or, may submit for Village Council approval, an independent
storm drainage system specifically designed for the proposed subdivision
sufficient to adequately carry any additional flow caused by the proposed
development approved by the County Drain Commissioner.
   (D)   Optional public improvements. The Village Council may, at its option,
require the proprietor to make provisions for the following public
improvements.
      (1)   Underground wiring. If required, this shall include provisions
requiring that all electrical, cable television, and telephone wiring shall be
installed entirely underground within private easements, public ways, or other
public or quasi-public utility rights-of-way in the subdivision.
      (2)   Street lighting. Where required, provisions shall be made for the
installation of street lighting adequate to comply with the village street
lighting plan or optional street lighting of a kind and quality approved by the
Village Council or its designee.
      (3)   Sidewalks and crosswalks. When required by the Village Council,
provisions shall be made by the proprietor for the installation and
construction of concrete sidewalks and crosswalks in the subdivision in
accordance with applicable provisions of §
151.03.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may require all improvements and facilities to be
completed before approval of the final plat. If the improvements and facilities
are not required to be completed by the Village Council, before approval, the
final plat shall be accompanied by a contract between the proprietor and the
Village Council for completion of all required improvements and facilities, and
the contract shall be recorded and referred to on the plat.
   (B)   In lieu of actual installation of public improvements required by the
Village Council, the proprietor may elect to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in the same manner specified in §
152.09(A)(4).
   (C)   The proprietor may elect to install or cause to be installed prior to
the approval of the final plat, all or part of the required public
improvements. In that case, the proprietor shall, at the time of final plat
approval, provide financial security for any remaining public improvements.
   (D)   In the event the proprietor fails to complete any required public
improvements within the specified time, the Village Council may proceed to have
the work completed and reimburse itself for the cost of doing so and proceeding
against the security posted pursuant to division (B) above.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.13 FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of fees for the review of plans and plats shall be
established by resolution of the Village Council in accordance with Public Act
288 of 1967, § 246(1), being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended. A
proprietor submitting a plan or plat for approval shall be required to deposit
the established fees with the Village Clerk and, until the fee is paid, the
plan or plat shall not be considered or reviewed.
   (B)   Fees shall be established for the following.
      (1)   Tentative approval of preliminary plat. The proprietor shall pay
the established village filing fee plus the established fee per lot when a
preliminary plat is submitted for tentative approval pursuant to §
152.05.
      (2)   Final approval of preliminary plat. The proprietor shall pay the
established village filing fee plus the established fee per lot when a
preliminary plat is submitted for final approval pursuant to §
152.06.
      (3)   Approval of final plats. The proprietor shall pay the following
fees when a final plat is submitted for approval pursuant to §
152.08:
         (a)   Village filing and review fee. The established village filing
and review fee plus the established fee per lot;
         (b)   Recording fee. A fee of $20 pursuant to § 241 of the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, which shall be known as the filing and recording fee and which shall
be forwarded by the Village Clerk to the Plat Board upon approval by the
Village Council of the final plat; and
         (c)   Inspection and review fees. All charges for village inspection
of public improvements and review fees specified in §
152.14.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.14 PUBLIC REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Engineering review. A proprietor submitting a plan or plat for
approval shall submit final engineering plans and specifications for all public
improvements required to be made and which are to be part of the respective
village system to the Village Engineer for approval. In addition to these
plans, the proprietor shall submit, in writing, an estimate of the cost of
construction and shall deposit with the Village Clerk the sum of 1% of this
estimate to cover the costs incurred by the village to review these plans and
specifications. The Village Clerk shall place this sum in an escrow account in
the name of the proprietor and the amount shall be applied toward the costs
incurred by the village for the engineering review with the excess, if any, to
be refunded to the proprietor or the shortage, if any, paid by the proprietor
prior to final plat approval.
   (B)   Inspection of improvements. Prior to starting work on any public
improvement required to be made in the subdivision which requires inspection by
the village, the proprietor shall deposit a sum equal to 4% of the cost of
construction to cover the costs incurred by the village or its designee to
inspect the public improvements. The Village Clerk shall place this sum in an
escrow account in the name of the proprietor and the amount shall be applied
toward the costs incurred by the village for the engineering review with the
excess, if any, to be refunded to the proprietor or the shortage, if any, paid
by the proprietor prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 20 days after publication.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 111, passed 3-7-1988)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purposes
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Severability
   
153.005   Effective date
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.020   Administration
   
153.021   Enforcement
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.035   Creation and membership
   
153.036   Organization and procedures
   
153.037   Appeals
   
153.038   Duties and powers
   
153.039   Essential services
   
153.040   Bond for compliance
Zoning Districts; Zoning Map; Schedule of Regulations
   
153.055   General provisions
   
153.056   R-1A District, One-Family Low Density Residential
   
153.057   (Reserved)
   
153.058   R-1B District, Medium Density Residential
   
153.059   R-M1 District, Multiple-Family Residential
   
153.060   B-1 District, Local Business
   
153.061   B-2 District, General Business
   
153.062   M-1 District, Industrial
   
153.063   (Reserved)
   
153.064   VC District, Village Core Mixed Use
   
153.065   HC-1 District, Highway Commercial
   
153.066   Schedule of regulations
   
153.067   Exceptions to the schedule of regulations
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.080   Miscellaneous regulations
   
153.081   Supplementary use regulations
   
153.082   Supplementary area regulations
   
153.083   Signage
   
153.084   Supplementary height regulations
   
153.085   Floodplain regulations
   
153.086   Nonconforming uses
   
153.087   Site plan approval process
   
153.088   Performance guarantees
   
153.089   Professional review of proposed development
Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
153.100   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.101   Loading requirements
Uses Authorized by Special Use Permit
   
153.115   General standards and requirements
   
153.116   Planned unit developments
   
153.117   Institutional structures and uses
   
153.118   Private noncommercial recreation areas
   
153.119   State-licensed day care facilities
   
153.120   Funeral homes and mortuaries
   
153.121   Mobile home park developments
   
153.122   Gasoline service stations, auto repair garages, and truck stops
   
153.123   (Reserved)
   
153.124   Customary home occupations
   
153.125   Miscellaneous special uses
   
153.126   Accessory retail/restaurants in the M-1 District
   
153.127   Wireless telecommunications facilities
   
153.128   Solar energy facilities
   
153.129   Wind energy facilities
   
153.130   Golf courses and country clubs
   
153.131   Group housing developments
   
153.132   Drive-throughs
   
153.133   Junk yards
   
153.134   Extractive uses
   
153.135   Marijuana facilities
Amendments
   
153.140   Village Council may amend
   
153.141   Initiation of amendments
   
153.142   Amendment procedure
   
153.143   Rezoning with conditions
Planning Commission
   
153.155   Creation
   
153.156   Membership
   
153.157   Professional review and assistance
   
153.158   Training
   
153.159   Members, appointment and terms
   
153.160   Removal from office
   
153.161   Membership; vacancies
   
153.162   First appointment to Commission
   
153.163   Compensation
   
153.164   Meetings
   
153.165   Powers and duties
   
153.166   Meetings; records
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
Webberville."
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.002 PURPOSES.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the safety, health, morals,
convenience, and general welfare; to encourage the use of lands and natural
resources in the village in accordance with their character, adaptability, and
suitability for particular purposes; to enhance social and economic stability;
to prevent excessive concentration of population; to reduce hazards due to
flooding; to lessen congestion on the public streets and highways; to provide
for safe and efficient provision of sewerage and drainage, water supply and
distribution, and educational, recreational, and the expenditure of funds for
public facilities and services by establishing herein standards for physical
development in accordance with the objectives and policies contained in the
Future Land Use Plan for the village; and to provide for the enforcement of
those standards.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules applying to the text. For the purpose of this chapter, certain
rules of construction apply to the text as follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
      (2)   The word PERSON includes a corporation or firm as well as an
individual.
      (3)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
      (4)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, TRACT, or PARCEL.
      (5)   The term SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word
MAY is permissive.
      (6)   The word USED or OCCUPIED as applied to any land or building shall
be construed to include the words “intended, arranged, or designed to be used
or occupied.”
      (7)   Any word or term not interpreted or defined by this chapter shall
be used with a meaning of common or standard utilization.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure on the same lot
with a principal or main building, or the part of the main building occupied by
or devoted exclusively to an accessory use.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building located on the same lot as the principal use or
building.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has, as a substantial portion of
its stock in trade and offers for sale, for any form of consideration, any one
or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, movies, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
visual representations that are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia designed for use as part
of, or in connection with, specified sexual activities.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS. Adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, massage parlors, and live nude performances, as defined in
M.C.L.A. § 117.4i(e).
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videos, slides, or other photographic
reproductions are shown and in which a substantial portion of the total
presentation is devoted to the showing of material characterized by an emphasis
on the depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated public way other than a street which provides only a
secondary means of access to abutting property and is not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      ALTERATIONS. Any modification, addition, or change in construction or
type of occupancy; any change or rearrangement in the structural parts of a
building; any enlargement of a building, whether by extending a side or by
increasing in height; or the moving from one location to another.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms, including bath and kitchen
facilities, in a two-family or multiple dwelling intended or designed for use
as a residence by a single-family.
      APARTMENT, GARDEN. A group of two or more multiple dwelling buildings,
not over two stories in height, located on the same lot, that offer each
dwelling unit direct access to an open yard area.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
      AUTO COURT. See MOTEL.
      AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. A suspended, permanent structure, attached to
a building that extends from the building face toward or into the street right-
of-way. Projections outside the property lines or into the street right-of-way
shall only be approved in compliance with the provisions of the ordinance. The
portion of the structure containing a message shall be considered as part of
the allowable wall signage.
      BASEMENT. A story having part, but not more than one-half, of its height
below finished grade. A basement shall be counted as a story for the purposes
of height measurement if the vertical distance between the ceiling and the
average level of the adjoining ground is more than five feet or if used for
business or dwelling purposes.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are
provided for three or more persons.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls
and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or
property.
      BUILDING AREA. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces, and steps.
      BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line or face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and enclosed porches, but
does not include steps.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the mean
elevation of the finished grade line of the ground about the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINES. A line defining the minimum front, side, and rear yard
requirements, outside of which no building or structure may be located.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
      CAMPGROUND. The uses and activities which take place on a lot or parcel
of land for vacation, resort or recreation purposes in accordance with Public
Act 368 of 1978, being the Michigan Public Health Code (M.C.L.A. § 333.1101),
as administered by the county, district or state public health departments, or
successor agencies, including sites offered for the purpose of camping in
tents, recreation vehicles or travel trailers for which a fee may or may not be
changed for use of a site. CAMPGROUND does not include a seasonal mobile home
park licensed under the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of 1987, as
amended.
      CANOPY. See AWNING.
      CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below the average
finished level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be counted as a
story for purposes of height measurement.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A statement signed by the Zoning Administrator
setting forth either that a building or structure complies with this chapter or
that a building, structure, or parcel of land may lawfully be employed for
specified uses, or both.
      CLINIC. An establishment where human patients who are not lodged
overnight are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians,
dentists, or similar professions.
      CLUBS. An organization catering exclusively to members and their guests,
or premises and buildings for recreational, artistic, political, or social
purposes, which are not conducted primarily for gain and which do not provide
merchandising, vending, or commercial activities, except as required
incidentally for the membership and purpose of the club.
      COMMON LAND. A parcel or parcels of land, together with the improvements
thereon, the use, maintenance, and enjoyment of which are intended to be shared
by the owners and occupants of the individual building units in a planned unit
development.
      CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A building wherein infirm, aged, or
incapacitated persons are furnished shelter, care, food, lodging, and needed
attention for a compensation.
      COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with
a building which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of the building.
      COURT, CLOSED. A court enclosed on all sides by exterior walls of a
building, or enclosed on all sides by a combination of exterior building walls
and freestanding walls.
      COURT, OUTER. A court enclosed on not more than three sides by exterior
walls of a building or by a combination of exterior walls and freestanding
walls, with one side or end open to a street, alley, or yard.
      COVERAGE. The percent of the plot or lot covered by the building area.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units residing upon or to be developed
upon a net acre of land.
      DISTRICT. An area of land for which there are uniform regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, density of development, yard
requirements, and height limitations.
      DORMITORY. A building, or portion thereof, used for housing purposes
under the supervision of a college, university, or other institutions.
      DWELLING. A building which is occupied wholly as the home, residence or
sleeping place by one or more human beings, either permanently or transiently,
excluding any garage space, tents, portable buildings, complying with the
following standards:
         (a)   It complies with the minimum square footage requirements of this
chapter for the district in which it is located.
         (b)   It has a minimum width for at least 75% of the floor area across
any section of not less than 20 feet.
         (c)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation constructed on
the site in accordance with the State of Michigan Construction Code and shall
have a wall of the same perimeter dimensions of the dwelling and constructed of
such materials and type as required in the applicable building code.
         (d)   Any dwelling transported to a site is required to have any
wheels, axles, towing hitches, or other appurtenances used for towing removed
promptly upon placing the dwelling upon its foundation.
         (e)   It complies with all pertinent building and fire codes. In the
case of a mobile home, all construction, plumbing and electrical apparatus and
insulation within and connected to the mobile home shall be of a type and
quality conforming to the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards as
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
being 24 C.F.R. § 3280, and as from time to time such standards may be amended.
         (f)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located
in a state licensed mobile home park, except to the extent required by state or
federal law, or otherwise specifically required in the ordinance of the village
pertaining to the parks.
      DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit manufactured in one or more
sections, designed for year-round dwelling purposes, capable of being
transported upon its own or a separate wheel chassis and not motorized or self-
propelled, but which meets the minimum floor area requirements of this zoning
ordinance and installed in accordance with all of the other requirements of
this chapter and the construction code specified for dwellings, when located
outside of a licensed mobile home park.
      DWELLING, MODULAR, MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT or PREFABRICATED. A pre-
manufactured dwelling, consisting of an assembly of materials and products
intended to comprise all or part of such dwelling, and which is assembled at
other than its use location, except for incorporation with similar units at the
use location for the formulation of a single structure, and which complies with
the related sections of the Michigan Construction Code. A modular home shall
exceed 20 feet in width.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, used or
designed to contain separate living units for three or more families, but which
may have joint services or facilities or both.
      DWELLING, ROW HOUSE OR TOWNHOUSE. Three or more one-family dwelling
units, each having access on the first floor to the ground and with common
walls separating the dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached or semi-detached building designed for
or occupied exclusively by two families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, designed exclusively for
residential occupancy by one family and having cooking facilities.
      ERECTING. The building, construction, alteration, reconstruction, moving
upon, or any physical activity upon a premises or lot.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, of
underground or overhead gas, electrical, or telephone transmission or
distribution system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, towers, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith,
but not including buildings reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by the public utilities, departments, or commissions.
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons occupying a premises and
living as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit with single culinary facilities
as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel,
club, fraternity, or similar dwelling for group use. Any domestic employees
residing on the premises shall be considered as part of the FAMILY.
      FARM. A use of land meeting the definition of FARM in the Michigan Right
to Farm Act.
      FLOODPLAIN. The area defined as the flood plain by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      FLOOR AREA. Sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floors of a building
or dwelling unit, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls, or
from the center line of walls separating dwelling units.
      GARAGE, PARKING. A structure or series of structures for the temporary
storage or parking of motor vehicles, having no public shop or service
connected therewith.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of a
principal building designed or used solely for the storage of noncommercial
motor vehicles, boats, house trailers, and similar vehicles owned and used by
the occupants of the building to which it is accessory.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any area of land, including any structure or
structures thereon, that is used or designed for the supply of gasoline, oil,
or other fuel for the propulsion of vehicles. For the purpose of this chapter,
this term shall also mean any area or structure used or designed for polishing,
greasing, washing, dry cleaning, spraying (but not including painting), or
otherwise cleaning or servicing the motor vehicles.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks, and roads
brought to grades, as shown on official plans or designs related thereto.
      GROUP HOUSING. A residential development involving the ultimate
construction of a group of dwelling units, including a combination of one-
family, two-family, or multiple-family dwellings on a lot, parcel, or tract of
land, or on a combination of lots under one ownership, and containing common
services or facilities.
      GUEST UNIT. A room or group of rooms occupied, arranged, or designed for
occupancy by one or more guests for compensation.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a service or professional character
conducted within a dwelling by the family residents thereof, which is clearly
secondary and incidental to the use of the dwelling for living purposes and
does not change the character thereof.
      HOTEL. A building in which the rooms are occupied or designed as
temporary abiding places for individuals who are lodged with or without meals
and in which there are more than ten sleeping rooms served only by a general
kitchen and dining facility located within the building.
      JUNK YARD. Any land or building over 200 square feet in area used for
abandonment, storage, keeping, collecting, or baling of paper, rags, scrap
metals, other scrap or discarded materials, or for abandonment, demolition,
dismantling, storage, or salvaging of automobiles or other vehicles or
machinery, or parts thereof.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises used for the sale, boarding, or breeding of
dogs, cats, or other household pets. KENNEL shall also mean the keeping of five
dogs, cats, and/or other household pets over the age of six months.
      LINE, STREET. The dividing line between a street right-of-way and a lot.
      LODGING HOUSE. A building in which three or more rooms are rented and in
which no table board is furnished, but not exceeding five persons.
      LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building, structure, land use,
or group of buildings, together with the open spaces or yards as are required
under this chapter and having its principal frontage upon a street.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot which has at least two contiguous sides abutting upon
a street for their full length.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean distance from the street line of the lot to its
opposite rear line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the
lot.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. The lines bounding a lot as herein described.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the deed to which has been recorded in the office of the
County Register of Deeds.
      LOT, WIDTH OF. The width measured along the front lot line or street
line.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A public street, the principal use or function of
which is to provide an arterial route for through traffic, with its secondary
use or function the provision of access to abutting property. Major
thoroughfares in the village are M-52, Grand River Avenue, Elm Road, Main
Street, Pardee Road, Webberville Road, and Gramer Road.
      MARQUEE. See AWNING.
      MARIJUANA GROW OPERATION. A commercial facility licensed under Public Act
281 of 2016 and Initiated Law 1 of 2018 that cultivates, dries, trims, or cures
marijuana for sale to a processor or provisioning center.
      MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITY. A commercial facility licensed under
Public Act 281 of 2016 and Initiated Law 1 of 2018 that purchases marijuana
from a licensed grow operation and extracts resin from the marijuana or creates
a marijuana-infused product for sale and transfer in packaged form to a
provisioning center.
      MARIJUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A commercial facility licensed
under Public Act 281 of 2016 and Initiated Law 1 of 2018 that receives
marijuana from a licensed grow operation, licensed processing facility, or
licensed caregiver, tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and
other cannabinoids, returns the test results, and may return the marijuana to
the marijuana facility.
      MARIJUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A commercial facility licensed under Public
Act 281 of 2016 and Initiated Law 1 of 2018 that stores marijuana and
transports marijuana between marijuana facilities for a fee.
      MARIJUANA PROVISIONING CENTER. A commercial facility licensed under
Public Act 281 of 2016 and Initiated Law 1 of 2018 that purchases marijuana
from a licensed grower or processor and sells, supplies, or provides marijuana
to consumers. The term "provisioning center" shall include any commercial
property where marijuana is sold at retail. A noncommercial location used by a
primary caregiver to assist a qualifying patient connected to the caregiver
through the department's marijuana registration process in accordance with the
Michigan Medical Marijuana Act is not a provisioning center for purposes of
this chapter.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing massage services and is not a myotherapy establishment regulated by
this chapter.
      MINOR STREET. A public way, the principal use or function of which is to
give access to abutting properties. All public roadways in the village not
listed as “major thoroughfares” shall be designated as “minor streets.”
      MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit manufactured in one or more sections,
designed for year-round, temporary or transient dwelling purposes, capable of
being transported upon its own or a separate wheeled chassis, not motorized or
self-propelled, built for the purpose of being located in a licensed mobile
home park, meets the requirements of the FHA Standards of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and installed in accordance
with the zoning ordinance and construction code.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. For the purpose of this chapter a specifically
designated parcel of land constructed and designed to accommodate three or more
mobile homes for residential dwelling use, and complies with the requirements
of, the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of 1987 as amended, M.C.L.A.
§ 125.2301 and the provisions of this chapter.
      MOBILE HOME, SITE, SPACE or PAD. Specified area of ground within a mobile
home park intended for the location of one mobile home.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in
connecting units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed
primarily for transient automobile travelers and providing for accessory off-
street parking facilities. The term MOTEL shall include buildings designated as
AUTO COURTS, TOURIST COURTS, MOTOR COURTS, MOTOR HOTEL, and similar
appellations which are designed as integrated units of individual rooms under
common ownership.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure, or use of land existing at the
time of enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the regulations
of the district or zone in which it is situated.
      OPEN SPACE. Any unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with a
building.
      OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The keeping, in an unroofed, unwalled, area, of goods
advertised for purchase by the general public, and clearly designated as such,
for more than seven days.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed, unwalled, area, of any
goods, material, or equipment in generally the same place for more than seven
days, and not meeting the definition of “outdoor display.” The following shall
not be considered OUTDOOR STORAGE:
         (a)   The parking of operable vehicles; and
         (b)   The storage, on a residential lot, of materials or equipment
that does not violate Chapter 93.
      PLAN, GENERAL DEVELOPMENT. An adopted statement of policy by the Planning
Commission relative to the agreed-upon desirable physical pattern of future
community development, consisting of a series of maps, charts, and written
material that represents a sound conception of how the community should grow in
order to bring about the very best community living conditions.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A land area which has both individual building
sites and common property, such as a park, and which is designed and developed
under one owner or organized group as a separate neighborhood or community
unit.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exists.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board fully authorized to furnish to the public electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, telegraph, transportation, or water.
      RECREATION, PRIVATE. A recreational space or structure, or combination
thereof, belonging to and/or operated by private interests for use by private
individuals and/or organizations and/or the public, consisting primarily of
human-made structures and/or other artificial apparatus which are necessary to
or form the basis for the use.
      RECREATION, PUBLIC. Any recreational space or structure owned by the
public or any space and structure or combination thereof privately owned, and
publicly used consisting primarily of the utilization of natural physical
features as the basis for the use. (Structures and artificial apparatus being
secondary to the primary outdoor use.)
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A street, alley, or other thoroughfare or easement
permanently established for passage of persons, vehicles, or the location of
utilities.
      ROOF. A permanent upper covering of a building that provides shelter from
precipitation and meets all requirements of the Michigan Building Code to be
considered a roof.
      SECONDARY THOROUGHFARE. A public street, the principal use or function of
which is to provide an arterial route for through traffic, with its secondary
use or function the provision of access to abutting property, and which has
been classified as such upon the General Development Plan of the village.
      SIGN. Any structure or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted
or represented thereon, or any material or thing, illuminated or otherwise,
which displays or includes any numeral, letter, word, model, banner, emblem,
insignia, device, code mark or other representation used in such manner as to
attract attention from outside the premises. Except signs not exceeding one
square foot in area bearing only property numbers, post box numbers or names of
occupants of the premises.
      SIGN, AREA. The surface of the structure used to convey the message
exclusive of the necessary supports or any appurtenances required by the
Building Code. The area of open sign structures, consisting of letters or
symbols without a solid surface in-between, shall be calculated on the basis of
the total area within the perimeter of the group of letters and/or symbols. The
area of a double face sign, which is constructed back to back as a single unit,
shall be calculated according to the surface area of one side only.
      SIGN, AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. A sign attached to a rigid and permanent
awning, canopy or marquee projecting from the front face of the building.
      SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign, including advertising structures, on which the
written or pictorial information is intended to advertise a use, product,
service, goods, event or facility located on other premises, and which is
intended primarily for advertising purposes, as defined and regulated by 1972
P.A. 106, as amended.
      SIGN, FREE STANDING. A sign supported by a structure independent of any
other structure.
      SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance to the top edge of the copy area
or structure, whichever is higher, as measured from the adjacent ground grade
upon which it is located.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign lighted by the use of any man-made
illumination.
      SIGN, MESSAGE CENTER. An illuminated sign with characters, numbers,
letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the
face or the surface of the sign. The display lighting is generally LED-type,
and the message is programmable.
      SIGN, MOBILE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or a
building.
      SIGN, NON-ILLUMINATED. A sign only visible under natural light
conditions.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign affixed to any building or structure other than
an awning, canopy or marquee, that projects in such a way that the message is
not parallel to the wall to which it is attached.
      SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. An advertising sign constructed in a manner as to
form an “A” or tent-like shape, which is moveable and not secured to the ground
or surface upon which it is located.
      SIGN, SEQUENTIAL ILLUMINATION. A sign with characters, numbers, letters
or illustrations that are illuminated individually in a progressive sequence.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign that is intended to be displayed for a limited
period of time, for up to one year. Any temporary sign that is placed for a
longer time period than one year shall be treated and regulated as a
freestanding sign.
      SIGN, TOURIST-ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL. A sign used to provide motorists with
advanced notice of a tourist-oriented activity, as defined and regulated by
1996 P.A. 299, as amended.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building
with the face in a plane parallel to the plane of the building wall.
      SIGN, WINDOW. A sign installed on or in a window for purposes of viewing
from outside the premises. This term does not include merchandise located in a
window.
      SITE, NET AREA. The total area within the property lines of a project or
development, excluding streets.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the aureola; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any one or more of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         (b)   Human sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including, but not limited to, intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Human masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   Human excretory functions as part of, or as related to, any of
the activities described above; and
         (e)   Physical violence, bondage, mutilation, or rape, actual or
simulated, as part of or as related to any of the activities described above.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
private use and not for hire, remuneration, or sale.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartments or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
      STORY, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the top surface of one floor
to the top surface of the next above. The height of the top-most story is the
distance from the top surface of the floor to the top surface of the ceiling
joints.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access
to abutting property.
      STREET LINE. The legal line of demarcation between a street and abutting
land.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial
changes in the roof and exterior walls.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
      SUBSTANTIAL PORTION. A use or activity accounting for more than 5% of any
one or more of the following: stock in trade, display space, floor space, or
viewing time, movie display time, or entertainment time measured per month.
      TENT SITE. See CAMPGROUND.
      TRAILER CAMP. See CAMPGROUND.
      TRAILER COACH. See MOBILE HOME.
      TRAILER PARK. See MOBILE HOME PARK.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable non-motorized vehicular unit primarily
designed for travel and/or recreational usage, which may also contain
facilities for periodic overnight lodging. This term also includes folding
campers and truck-mounted campers but does not include mobile homes.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed, or
intended, or for which land or a building may be occupied.
      VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where
the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
      WALL. A permanent vertical structural element of the exterior of a
building, completely enclosing one side of the building, exclusive of windows
and odors, and meeting the requirements of the Michigan Building Code to be
considered an exterior wall.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied, and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. The
measurement of a yard shall be construed as the minimum horizontal distance
between the lot line and the building line.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
lot lines and measured between the front line of the lot and the nearest point
of the main building or land use.
      YARD, REAR. An open space on the same lot with a main building unoccupied
except as herein permitted, extending the full width of the lot and situated
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to
the side lines of the lot. The depth of the rear yard shall be measured between
the rear line of the lot or the center line of the alley, if there be an alley,
and the rear line of the building.
      YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building,
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a front line or a rear line
shall be deemed a side line.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Appointed officer of the Village Council to effect
proper administration of this chapter.
      ZONING PERMIT. Permit required for any change in use of land or structure
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 153, passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 206, passed 8-24-
2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Res., passed 6-11-2019; Ord., passed 8-10-
2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024)
§ 153.004 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and the various subchapters, sections, and divisions thereof
are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
divisions, section, clause, or subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid, it is hereby provided that the remainder of this chapter shall not be
affected thereby. If any part, sentence, paragraph, division, section, clause,
or subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid as applied to a
particular property, building, or other structure, it is hereby provided that
the application of the portion of this chapter to other property, buildings, or
structures shall not be affected thereby. Whenever any condition or limitation
is included in an order authorizing a planned unit development or any
conditional use permit, variance grading permit, zoning compliance permit,
certificate of occupancy, site plan approval or designation of nonconformance,
it shall be conclusively presumed that the authorizing officer or body
considered the condition or limitation necessary to carry out the spirit and
purpose of this chapter or the requirement of some provision hereof and to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare and that the officer or Board
would not have granted the authorization to which the condition or limitation
pertains except in the belief that the condition or limitation was lawful.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective June 27, 2019. (Ordinance adopted
February 14, 2017).
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.020 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administration. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered
by the Village Council in accordance with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702, and other
applicable law. The Village Council shall designate or employ a Zoning
Administrator to act as its officer to offer the proper administration of this
chapter. The term of employment, rate of compensation, and other conditions of
employment shall be established by the Village Council. For the purpose of this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall have the powers of a police officer in
the enforcement of the terms hereof within the village limits. All applications
for zoning permits shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who may
issue zoning permits and certificates of occupancy when all applicable
provisions of this chapter have been complied with. The Zoning Administrator
shall be empowered to make inspections of buildings or premises to carry out
his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator
shall record all nonconforming uses existing at the effective date of this
chapter for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of §
153.086. Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator permitted to make
changes in this chapter nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out
his or her duties.The Village Council shall also appoint a Planning Commission
and a Zoning Board of Appeals in order to carry out the duties of the Planning
Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals described herein.
   (B)   Zoning permits. The following shall apply in the issuance of any
permit.
      (1)   Requirements for. Exclusive of farm service buildings specifically
exempted by state law, the excavation for any building or structure shall not
be commenced; erection of, addition to, alteration of, or moving of any
building or structure shall not be undertaken; or any land shall not be used,
or an existing use of land shall not be changed to a use of a different type or
class, until a building permit or a certificate of occupancy has been secured
from the Village Clerk. Except upon a written order of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, no such building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for any building or use of land where the construction, addition, alteration,
or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Application requirements. There shall be submitted with all
applications for zoning permits one copy of a site layout or plat plan, drawn
to scale, showing:
         (a)   The location, shape, area, and dimension of the lot;
         (b)   The location, dimensions, height, and bulk of the existing and/
or proposed structures to be erected, altered, or moved on the lot;
         (c)   The intended uses;
         (d)   The proposed number of sleeping rooms, dwelling units,
occupants, employees, customers, and other users;
         (e)   The yard, open space, and parking space dimensions; and
         (f)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   Voiding of permit. Any permit granted under this section shall
become null and void after one year from the date of granting the permit unless
the development proposed shall have passed its first building inspection.
Before voidance is actually declared, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the voiding action by sending a notice to the applicant at the
address indicated on the permit application at least ten days before the
voidance is effective.
      (4)   Inspection. The development or usage proposed by any zoning permit
shall be subject to two zoning inspections; one inspection before construction
begins, and the other before occupancy occurs. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to notify the Zoning Administrator regarding times of inspection.
Failure of the permit holder to make proper requests for inspection shall
automatically cancel the permit, requiring the issuance of a new permit before
construction may proceed or occupancy may be permitted.
      (5)   Fees. Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or
certificates required under this chapter shall be collected by the Village
Clerk in advance of issuance. The amount of the fees shall be established by
the Village Council and shall cover the cost of inspection and supervision
resulting from the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building shall be used or changed in use, until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator, stating that the building
and its proposed use complies with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of occupancy may
be issued upon request for existing buildings, structures, or parts thereof, or
existing uses of land if, after inspection, it is found that the buildings,
structures, or parts thereof, or the uses of land, are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Certificates for nonconforming uses. Any use or occupancy of any
land or building not specifically permitted in its particular zoning district
shall require the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for continued use. The
certificate shall indicate the authorized use, the authority by which it is
permitted, and any limiting conditions to the use.
      (3)   Application for certificates. Application for certificates of
occupancy shall be made at the time of application for building permit or, in
the case of existing buildings or uses of land, by application in writing to
the Village Clerk. A certificate of occupancy applied for coincidentally with
an application for a building permit shall be issued at the completion of the
final inspection, and in the case of existing buildings or uses of land a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten days after the receipt of
the application if the building, structure, or use of land is in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. If the certificate is refused for cause,
the applicant shall be notified of the refusal in writing within the aforesaid
ten-day period.
      (4)   Records of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall
be kept on file in the office of the Village Clerk and copies shall be
furnished at cost upon the request of any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the property involved.
   (D)   Public hearings. All public hearings required in this chapter shall be
noticed and carried out in a manner consistent with the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act and the Michigan Open Meetings Act, regardless of anything in this
chapter to the contrary.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord., passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.021 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Violations of any provisions of this chapter are declared to be
nuisance per se. Any and all building or land use activities considered
possible violations of the provisions of this chapter observed or communicated
to Police and Fire Department employees or to any village officials shall be
reported to the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Inspection of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall inspect
each alleged violation and shall order correction, in writing, of all
conditions found to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Correction period. All violations shall be corrected within a
period of 30 days after the order to correct is issued or the longer period of
time, not to exceed six months, as the Zoning Administrator shall permit. A
violation not corrected within this period shall be subject to further
enforcement by the Zoning Administrator and/or the Ordinance Officer as
provided within this code.
      (3)   Cumulative rights and remedies. The right and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (B)   Conflicting regulations. In the interpretation, application, and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, whenever any one of the
provisions or limitations imposed or required by the provisions of this chapter
shall govern, provided that whenever the provisions of any other law or
ordinance impose more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by
this chapter, then the provisions of the other law or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 221, passed 3-11-2013; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.035 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Village Zoning Board of
Appeals in accordance with Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of
2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702, as amended. The Board of
Appeals shall perform its duties and exercise its powers as provided by
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 through 125.3702, as amended, and in such a way that the objectives of
this chapter may be equitably achieved, that there shall be provided a means
for competent interpretation and controlled flexibility in the application of
this chapter, and that the health, safety, and welfare of the public be
secured, and that substantial justice be secured.
   (B)   Membership; terms of office. The legislative body of the village may
act as or appoint a Zoning Board of Appeals. In the event that the legislative
body appoints, the Zoning Board of Appeals must consist of not less than five
members, each to be appointed for a term of three years: provided, that
appointments for the first year shall be for a period of one, two, and three
years respectively, so as nearly as may be to provide for the appointment of an
equal number each year, depending on the number of members, thereafter each
member to hold office for the full three-year period. Members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be removed by the Village Council for nonfeasance,
malfeasance, and misfeasance of office.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.036 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules of procedure. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own
rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meeting and carry out its
function. The Board shall choose its own Chairperson, and in his or her
absence, an Acting Chairperson.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine. All meetings by the
Board shall be open to the public.
   (C)   Records. Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings which shall
contain evidence and date relevant to every case considered together with the
votes of the members and the final disposition of each case. The minutes shall
be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be made available to the
general public. The Village Clerk shall act as Secretary to the Board of
Appeals and all records of the Board's action shall be taken and recorded under
his or her direction.
   (D)   Counsel. The Village Attorney shall act as legal counsel for the Board
and shall be present at all meetings upon request by the Board. The Board may
also request a review and opinion from the Village Planner.
   (E)   Hearings. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to all persons to whom
any real property within 300 feet of the premises in question shall be
addressed, the notice to be delivered personally or by mail addressed to the
respective owners at the address given in the last assessment roll and shall
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney. The Zoning Board of Appeals may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and shall make the order, requirement,
decision, or determination as in his or her opinion ought to be made in the
premises and to that end shall have all powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken.
   (F)   Decisions. The Board of Appeals shall return a decision case within
120 days after a request or appeal has been filed, unless a further time is
agreed upon with the parties concerned. Any decision of the Board shall not
become final until the expiration of five days from the date of entry of the
order, unless the Board shall find the immediate effect of the order is
necessary for the preservation of property or personal rights and shall so
certify on the record.
   (G)   Majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which they are required to pass under this
chapter or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.037 APPEALS.
   (A)   Filing of appeals. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be made
by any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, or board of the
village. Any appeal from the ruling of the Zoning Administrator concerning the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter may be made to the Zoning Board
of Appeals within ten days after the date of the mailing of the Zoning
Administrator's decision. The appeal shall be filed with the Secretary of the
Board of Appeals and with the Zoning Administrator, and shall specify the
grounds for the appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall immediately transmit to
the Secretary of the Board all papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   Stay. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Zoning
Board of Appeals after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall
not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by
the Board of Appeals or, on application, by court of record.
   (C)   Fees. A fee as established by the Village Council shall be paid to the
Secretary of the Board of Appeals at the time of filing application with the
Board. The purpose of the fee is to cover, in part, the necessary
advertisements, investigations, and other expenses incurred by the Board in
connection with the appeal.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.038 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Board of Appeals shall not have the power to
alter or change the zoning district classification of any property, not to make
any change in the terms or intent of this chapter, but does have power to act
on those matters where this chapter provides for an administrative review,
interpretation, variance, or exception as defined in this section.
   (B)   Review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by
the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit,
decision, or refusal made by the Building Inspector or by any other official in
administering or enforcing any provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation. The Board shall have the power to:
      (1)   Interpret, upon request, the provisions of this chapter in such a
way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   Determine the precise location of the boundary lines between zoning
districts;
      (3)   Classify a use which is not specifically mentioned as part of the
use regulations of any zoning district so that it conforms to a comparable
permitted or prohibited use, in accordance with the purpose and intent of each
district; and
      (4)   Determine the off-street parking and loading space requirements or
any use not specifically mentioned in §§
153.100 and
153.101.
   (D)   Variances. The Board shall have the power to authorize, upon an
appeal, specific variances from the requirements as lot area and width
regulations, building height and bulk regulations, yard and depth regulations,
and off-street parking and loading space requirements, provided all of the
basic conditions listed herein and any one of the special conditions listed
thereafter can be satisfied. The Board shall not have the power to grant "use
variances" or allow a use in a zoning district that is not permitted in that
district.
      (1)   Basic conditions. That any variance granted from this chapter:
         (a)   Will not be contrary to the public interest or to the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
         (b)   Shall not permit the establishment within a district of any use
which is not permitted by right within that zone district, or any use or
dimensional variance for which a conditional use permit or a temporary use
permit is required.
         (c)   Will not cause a substantial adverse effect upon property values
in the immediate vicinity or in the district in which the property of the
applicant is located.
         (d)   Is not one where the specific conditions relating to the
property are so general or recurrent in nature as to make the formulation of a
general regulation for the conditions reasonably practical.
         (e)   Will relate only to property that is under control of the
applicant.
      (2)   Special conditions. When all of the foregoing basic conditions can
be satisfied, a variance may be granted when any one of the following special
conditions can be clearly demonstrated:
         (a)   Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
which prevent carrying out the strict letter of this chapter. These hardships
or difficulties shall not be deemed economic, but shall be evaluated in terms
of the use of a particular parcel of land;
         (b)   Where there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
physical conditions such as narrowness, shallowness, shape, or topography of
the property involved, or to the intended use of the property, that do not
generally apply to other property or uses in the same zoning district. The
circumstances or conditions shall not have resulted from any act of the
applicant subsequent to the adoption of this chapter; and/or
         (c)   Where the variation is necessary for the preservation of a
substantial property right possessed by other properties in the same zoning
district.
      (3)   Rules. The following rules shall be applied in the granting of
variances.
         (a)   The Board may specify, in writing, the conditions regarding the
character, location, and other features that will, in its judgment, secure the
objectives and purposes of this chapter. The breach of any such condition shall
automatically invalidate the permit granted.
         (b)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void, unless:
            1.   The construction authorized by the variance or permit has been
commenced within six months after the granting of the variance; and/or
            2.   The occupancy of land, premises, or buildings authorized by
the variance has taken place within one year after the granting of the
variance.
         (c)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the Board shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of the last denial, except on the grounds of newly-discovered evidence or proof
of changed conditions found upon inspection by the Board to be valid.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.039 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to permit the erection and
use of a building, or an addition to an existing building, of a public service
corporation or for public utility purposes, in any permitted district to a
greater height or of larger area than the district requirements herein
established, and permit the location in any use district of a public utility
building, structure, or use if the Board shall find the use, height, area,
building, or structure reasonably necessary for the public convenience and
service.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.040 BOND FOR COMPLIANCE.
   In authorizing any variance, or in granting any conditional, temporary, or
special approval permits, the Village Board of Appeals may require that a bond
be furnished to insure compliance with the requirements, specifications, and
conditions imposed with the grant of variance or permit and to insure the
discontinuance of a temporary use by a stipulated time.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
ZONING DISTRICTS; ZONING MAP; SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
§ 153.055 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Districts established. For the purposes of this chapter, the village
is hereby divided into the following districts:
      (1)   R-1A One-Family Low Density Residential;
      (2)   R-1B Medium Density Residential;
      (3)   R-M1 Multiple-Family Residential;
      (4)   B-1 Local Business;
      (5)   B-2 General Business;
      (6)   VC Village Core Mixed Use; and
      (7)   M-1 Industrial.
   (B)   Official Zoning Map. The boundaries of these districts are hereby
defined and established as shown on a map entitled "Zoning District Map of the
Village of Webberville, Ingham County, Michigan, as amended November, 2014,"
which accompanies the ordinance codified in this chapter, and which map, with
all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby made a part of this chapter. The
Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Village
President, attested by the Village Clerk, and bearing the following words:
"This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Article
4, §
153.055(B) of the Village of Webberville Zoning Ordinance adopted on December
9, 2014." If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning
Map, the changes shall not be considered final, and zoning permits shall not be
issued, until changes have been made within seven normal working days after the
effective date of the ordinance amendment. Each map change shall be accompanied
by a reference number on the map which shall refer to the official action of
the Village Council. Two copies of the Official Zoning Map are to be maintained
and kept up-to-date, one in the Village Clerk's or Village Treasurer's office,
and one in the Zoning Administrator's office.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any of the districts indicated on the Official
Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the streets or
highways, the center lines of the streets or highways shall be construed to be
the boundaries.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines shall be
construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village boundary
lines shall be construed as following the village boundary lines.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines
shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to the center lines
of streets or highways shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at the
distance therefrom as indicated on the Official Zoning Map. If no distance is
given, the dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the
Official Zoning Map.
      (6)   Boundaries following the shoreline of a stream, lake, or other body
of water shall be construed to follow the shorelines, and in the event of
change in the shorelines shall be construed as moving with the actual
shorelines, boundaries indicated as approximately following the thread of
streams, canals, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the
threads.
      (7)   Where the application of the aforesaid rules leaves a reasonable
doubt as to the boundaries between two districts, the regulations of the more
restrictive district shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless
otherwise determined by the Village Board of Appeals after recommendation from
the Village Planning Commission.
   (D)   Scope of regulations. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall
hereafter be erected, moved, constructed, or altered, and no new use or change
in use shall be made, unless in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
and with the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
      (1)   The regulations applying to each district include specific
limitations on the use of land and structure, height and bulk of structures,
density of population, lot area, yard dimensions, and area of lot that can be
covered by each structure.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to classify a use
which is not specifically mentioned as "permitted" or "permitted by special use
permit" in a particular zoning district by determining that it is generally
similar to the other uses permitted in that district.
   (E)   Zoning of vacated areas. Whenever any street, alley, or other public
way within the village shall have been vacated by official public action, and
when the lands within the boundaries thereof attach to and become a part of
lands adjoining the street, alley, or public way, the lands formerly within the
vacated street, alley, or public way shall automatically and without further
action of the Village Council, thenceforth acquire and be subject to the same
zoning regulations as are applicable to lands to which same shall attach, and
the same shall be used for the same use as is permitted under this chapter for
the adjoining lands.
   (F)   District requirements. All buildings and uses in any district shall be
subject, where applicable, to the provisions of §§
153.080 through
153.089,
153.100, and
153.101.
   (G)   Categories within zone districts. In order to ensure all possible
benefits and protection for the zone districts in this chapter, the land uses
have been classified into two categories:
      (1)   Uses permitted by right. The primary uses and structures specified
for which the zone district has been established; and
      (2)   Uses permitted by special use permit. Uses and structures which
have been generally accepted as reasonably compatible with the primary uses and
structures within the zone district, but could present potential injurious
effects upon the primary uses and structures within the zone district and
therefore require special consideration in relation to the welfare of adjacent
properties and to the community as a whole. All the proposed uses shall be
subject to a public hearing following review as provided in §§
153.115 through
153.134.
   (H)   The table below shows an overview of the uses permitted in each zoning
district. P = "Permitted" and S = "Permitted by Special Use Permit." An empty
box indicates that the use is not permitted in that Zoning District.
Table of Permitted Uses and Special Uses by Zoning District
Use R-1A R-1 B R-M 1 B-1 B-2 VC HC M-1 Additional Information
Table of Permitted Uses and Special Uses by Zoning District
Use              R-1A R-1 B R-M 1 B-1 B-2 VC HC M-1 Additional Information
Residential Uses
Existing Single  P    P     P     P   P   P  P
Family Dwellings
New Single       P    P     P
Family Dwellings
Two-family            P     P             P
dwellings
Multiple-family             P     S*  S*  P         *In existing structures
dwellings                                           only
Dwelling Units
in Accessory     P    P     P
Structures
State Licensed                                      §
Day Care         S    S     S     P   P   P  P      153.119
Facilities
Lodging or
Boarding Houses
with up to Four             P
Non-Transient
Roomers
Mobile Home                 S
Parks
Group Housing               S                       §
Developments                                        153.131
Commercial Uses
Retail                            P   P   P  P
Businesses
Personal Service                  P   P   P  P
Businesses
Retail Food                       P   P   P  P
Establishments
Restaurants and                   P   P   P  P
Bars (all types)
Dry Cleaning                      P   P   P  P
Professional                      P   P   P  P
Offices
Gas Stations                      S   S   S  P
Home Occupations S    S     S             P
Golf Courses/    S    S     S     P   P   P  P      §
Country Clubs                                       153.130
Commercial                                          §
Recreation                        P   P   P  P      153.125(B)(3)
Facilities
Banks                             P   P   P  P
Funeral Homes                     P   P   P  P
Printing and                      P   P   P  P
Copying Services
Indoor Fitness                    P   P   P  P
Centers
Drive-Throughs                    S   S      P
(all types)
Auto Servicing                    S   S   S  P
and Repair
Hotels and                        S   S   S  P
Motels
Car Washes                        S   P   S  P
Public Assembly
Buildings
(including movie                      P   P  P
theaters and
auditoriums)
Building Supply/
Lawn and Garden                       P      P
Stores
Self Storage                          S      P
Automobile                            P   S  P
Dealerships
Open Air                              S      S
Businesses
Drive-in                              S      S      §
theaters                                            153.125(B)(3)
Adult Uses                            S      S      §
                                                    153.125(B)(4)
Truck Stops                                  S
RV Campgrounds                               S
Outdoor Display                       P      P  P
Industrial Uses
Manufacturing                         S*        P   *When all output is sold on
Uses                                                the premises
Warehousing and
Commercial                                      P
Storage
Contractor's
Establishment                                   P
(non-retail)
Truck or Freight                                P
Terminal
Utilities                                       P
Power Plants
(non-solar or                                   S
wind)
Outdoor Storage                                 S
Junk Yards                                      S   §
                                                    153.133
Extractive Uses                                 S   §
                                                    153.134
Sewage Treatment                                S   §
                                                    153.125(B)(1)
Incinerators                                    S   §
                                                    153.125(B)(2)
Marijuana Grow                           S   §
Operation                                           153.135
Marijuana                                           §
Processing                               S   153.135
Facility
Marijuana Safety                                    §
Compliance                               S   153.135
Facility
Marijuana Secure                         S   §
Transporter                                         153.135
Marijuana                                           §
Provisioning                           S     153.135
Center
Public/Community Uses
Public Parks and
Recreational     P    P     P     P   P   P  P  P
Facilities
Cemeteries       P    P     P     P   P   P     P   §
                                                    153.056(B)(8)
Religious        S    S     P     P   P   P         §
Institutions                                        153.117
Schools, Public  S    S     P     P   P   P         §
or Private                                          153.117
Public Buildings S    S     P     P   P   P     P   §
                                                    153.117
Hospitals and    S    S     P     P   P   P         §
Clinics                                             153.117
Veterinary                        P   P   P
Clinics
Kennels                               S      S
Temporary                         P   P   P
Outdoor Uses
Other Uses
Private Swimming P    P     P
Pools
Temporary
Buildings
(during          P    P     P     P   P   P
construction of
a permanent
building)
Parking lots (on
lots with no     S    S     S     S   S   S  S  S
other uses)
Agricultural                                        Prohibited in all districts
Uses             S    S     S                   S   on lots smaller than one
                                                    acre
Existing
Wireless                                            §
Telecommuni-     P    P     P     P   P   P  P  P   153.127
cations
Facilities
New Wireless
Telecommuni-     S    S     S     S   S   S  S  P
cations
Facilities
Solar Energy     P*   P*    P*    P*  P*  P* P* P   *As accessory uses only §
Facilities                                          153.128
Wind Energy      S*   S*    S*    S*  S*  S* S* S   *As accessory uses only §
Facilities                                          153.129
Advertising                           S      S
Structures
 
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 157, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 193, passed 11-20-
2006; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Res., passed 6-11-2019; Ord., passed 8-10-
2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 R-1A DISTRICT, ONE-FAMILY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This section establishes the R-1A One-Family Low
Density Residential District to encourage the development of single-family
residential homes, and protect the existing single-family homes in the village.
This district includes existing low density one-family properties as well as
areas within which the development appears both likely and desirable. In order
to avoid intrusion of undesirable uses and to foster all possible benefits for
a continued high quality residential environment, all land and structure uses
in this district, as well as other residential districts in this chapter, have
been classified into two categories: those uses permitted by right, and those
uses permitted by special permit. The latter classification has been
established to facilitate the inclusion within the district of certain
nonresidential uses that have been generally accepted as reasonably compatible
with one-family neighborhoods, but that present potential injurious effects
upon residential and other property unless authorized under specific and
controlled conditions.
   (B)   Use permitted by right.
      (1)   One-family dwelling.
      (2)   Customary accessory uses and buildings, provided those uses and
buildings are incidental to the principal use and do not include any activity
conducted as a business. Any accessory building or use shall be located on the
same lot with the principal building. Accessory uses shall include the
following:
         (a)   Living quarters as part of an accessory garage.
         (b)   Private swimming pools, provided, that whenever an unenclosed
swimming pool is constructed, the pool shall be provided with a protective
fence six feet in height and entry shall be provided by means of a controllable
gate.
         (c)   Solar energy facilities accessory to a residential use and
intended to produce electricity primarily for the lot they are located on,
subject to the standards in §
153.128.
         (d)   Additional supplementary uses, including accessory buildings, as
stipulated in §
153.081.
      (3)   Public parks and recreation facilities.
      (4)   Temporary buildings, for uses incidental to construction work. The
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work or within the period of one year, whichever is the lesser
time period.
      (5)   Railroad right-of-way, including all necessary trackage, switches,
and operating devices, but excluding storage, marshaling yards, freight yards,
or sidings.
      (6)   Modifications and co-locations on existing wireless
telecommunications facilities, subject to the standards in §
153.127.
      (7)   Private non-commercial recreation areas, subject to the standards
in §
153.118.
      (8)   Cemeteries, public or private, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The site shall be no less than 20 acres and shall be so designed
as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major
thoroughfare, as classified on the Comprehensive Development Plan of the
village;
         (b)   The location of proposed service roads, entrances, and driveways
shall be so designed in relationship to the major thoroughfare that pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety is encouraged; and
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted by the application for and the issuance of a
special use permit when specified procedures and requirements, as outlined in
the sections cited, are complied with:
      (1)   Institutions for human care. Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums,
nursing or convalescent homes, homes for the aged, philanthropic and charitable
institutions, refer to §
153.117.
      (2)   Religious institutions. Churches, convents, parsonages, and other
housing for religious personnel, provided that the standards in §
153.117 are met.
      (3)   Educational and social institutions. Public or private elementary
and secondary schools, institutions for higher education, and centers for
social activities, refer to §
153.117.
      (4)   Public buildings and public service installations. Publicly-owned
and operated buildings, including libraries, public utility buildings and
structures, telephone exchange buildings, transformer stations and substations,
refer to §
153.117.
      (5)   Customary home occupations. Subject to the provisions of §
153.124.
      (6)   Golf courses and country clubs. Subject to the provisions of §
153.130.
      (7)   State licensed day care facilities.
      (8)   Parking lots on lots with no other uses.
      (9)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a residential use and
designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot they are located on,
subject to the standards in §
153.128.
      (10)   New wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the
standards in §
153.127.
      (11)   Extractive uses, provided that the standards of §
153.135 are met and the Planning Commission determines that off-site negative
impacts will be minimal.
      (12)   Agricultural uses, as listed below, provided that the lot in
question is one acre or greater in area.
         (a)   Field crop and fruit farming, truck gardening, horticulture,
aviaries, hatcheries, apiaries, greenhouses, tree nurseries, and similar
agricultural enterprises along with accessory uses incidental to the above.
         (b)   Raising and keeping of small animals, such as poultry, rabbits
and goats.
         (c)   Raising and keeping of livestock, such as cattle, hogs, horses,
and ponies may be conducted on a lot of less than ten acres, provided that all
the raising and keeping shall be for the use or consumption by the occupants of
the premises.
         (d)   General and specialized farms including the raising and keeping
for profit of cattle, hogs, horses, ponies, sheep, and similar livestock upon a
lot having an area of not less than ten acres.
         (e)   Public and private conservation areas and structures for the
conservation of water, soils, open space, forest, and wildlife resources.
         (f)   Public areas, such as forest preserves, game refuges, forest
type recreation parks, and similar public uses of low density character.
         (g)   Customary home occupations as specified for R-1A Districts, see
§
153.124.
         (h)   Roadside stands and other retail establishments selling products
grown on the premises upon which the stand is located, provided that contiguous
space for the parking of customer's vehicles is furnished off the public right-
of-way at the ratio of one parking space for each 15 square feet of roadside
stand floor area and provided further that all of the requirements for
accessory buildings contained in §
153.081(B) shall be met.
         (i)   Supplementary uses, such as customary accessory uses and
buildings incidental to an agricultural use that has received a special use
permit. The following accessory uses may be permitted:
            1.   The storage of not more than one unoccupied travel trailer
upon each lot or parcel; and
            2.   The killing and dressing of poultry and animals produced upon
the premises.
         (j)   Riding stables and livestock auction yards.
         (k)   Raising of fur bearing animals for profit.
         (l)   Veterinary hospitals, clinics, and kennels.
         (m)   Seasonal labor housing complexes associated with agricultural
enterprises, provided that the units are maintained in safe and sanitary
condition with inside water and sanitary sewage disposal facilities and that
the structures are occupied no more than eight months in any 12-month period.
         (n)   Sawmills.
         (o)   Sod farms.
         (p)   Grain and seed elevators and sales, and cold storage for
cooperative and/or wholesale agricultural products.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066, limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted, and providing minimum
yard setback requirements.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 (RESERVED)
§ 153.058 R-1B DISTRICT, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is intended to provide for a diverse
residential environment whereby both single-family and two-family dwellings can
be accommodated side by side. It provides for a mixture of these two housing
types and thereby offers a greater choice in living environments. The district
also includes areas within the village which presently have, or will have
within a reasonable future period, public water and sewer facilities.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right.
      (1)   All uses permitted by right in R-1A Districts, subject to all the
restrictions specified therefor; and
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted by the application for and the issuance of a
special use permit when specified procedures and requirements, as outlined in
the sections cited, are complied with:
      (1)   All special uses permitted in R-1A Districts, subject to all the
restrictions specified therefor.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066, limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted, and providing minimum
yard setback requirements.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.059 R-M1 DISTRICT, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is provided to accommodate a mixture
of housing types, to permit boarding and lodging houses under specified maximum
capacities, and to serve the limited needs for garden apartments, townhouses,
row houses, or other group housing facilities similar in character and density.
This district also includes areas within the village which presently have
public water and sewer facilities.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right.
      (1)   All uses permitted by right in the R-1B Residential District.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (3)   Lodging houses, provided that not more than four non-transient
roomers are accommodated in one dwelling and that the dwelling is occupied by a
resident family.
      (4)   Boarding houses, provided, that not more than four nontransient
persons are accommodated for the serving of meals.
      (5)   Institutions for human care, such as hospitals, clinics,
sanitariums, nursing or convalescent homes, homes for the aged, philanthropic
and charitable institutions subject to the specifications of §
153.117.
      (6)   Religious institutions, such as churches, convents, parsonages, and
other housing for religious personnel subject to the specifications of §
153.117.
      (7)   Educational and social institutions, subject to the specifications
of §
153.117.
      (8)   Public buildings and public service institutions, subject to the
specifications of §
153.117.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted by the application for and the issuance of a
special use permit when specified procedures and requirements, as outlined in
the sections cited, are complied with:
      (1)   All uses permitted by special use permit in the R-1B Residential
District subject to all the restrictions specified therefor, except those uses
listed as permitted uses in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   Mobile home park developments, refer to §
153.121; and
      (3)   Group housing developments, including those types of residential
housing customarily known as garden apartments, terrace apartments, townhouses,
row housing units, and other housing structures of similar character, provided
that the standards of §
153.121 are met.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066 limiting the height and bulk of building, the minimum size of lot
permitted, and providing minimum yard setback requirements.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.060 B-1 DISTRICT, LOCAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Local Business Districts are designed to
provide convenient, day-to-day retail shopping and service facilities for
persons residing in adjacent residential areas with a minimum impact upon
surrounding residential development.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. All of the following uses must be conducted
wholly in a permanent, fully enclosed building:
      (1)   Retail food establishments. Which supply groceries, fruits,
vegetables, meats, dairy products, baked goods, confections, or similar
commodities for consumption off the premises. Foodstuffs may be prepared or
manufactured on the premises as an accessory activity.
      (2)   Other retail businesses. Such as (but not limited to) drug,
variety, second-hand stores, dry goods, clothing, notions, music, book, pet
shops, or hardware stores which supply commodities on the premises.
      (3)   Personal service establishments. Which perform services on the
premises, such as (but not limited to) barber or beauty shops, repair shops for
shoes, radio, television, jewelry, self-service laundries, and photographic
studios.
      (4)   Offices. Such as offices of doctors, dentists, accountants,
lawyers, businesses, etc.
      (5)   Banks.
      (6)   Restaurants and bars. Including all establishments which provide
prepared food and drink for carryout or consumption on the premises. Outdoor
dining shall be permitted, except that outdoor dining on public property (such
as the sidewalk) shall require the approval of the Village Council. A clear
path at least five feet wide must be maintained on all village sidewalks at all
times.
      (7)   Public buildings. Such as post offices, libraries, or similar
public office buildings.
      (8)   Fur and dry cleaning establishments. Provided, that nonflammable
and odorless cleaning fluid or solvent is used, and that all dry cleaning is
limited to that material and clothing picked up over the counter of the
premises.
      (9)   Temporary outdoor uses. Such as sidewalk sales displays, Christmas
tree sales lots, revival tents, or other quasi-civic activities may be
permitted on a temporary basis without a public hearing by the Board of
Appeals, provided, that the permit shall not be issued for more than 30 days in
any one year.
      (10)   Existing single-family houses. Single-family houses existing prior
to June 1, 2013 shall be considered permitted uses in B-1, B-2, and HC
Districts. If destroyed by an act outside the control of the property owner,
they may be rebuilt within the footprint of the original building, provided
that construction commences within 18 months of the destruction of the original
structure. Single-family homes may be converted for use by another permitted or
special use allowed in the district, provided that the following are met:
         (a)   A zoning permit (or special use permit, if required), must be
obtained prior to beginning renovations of the building;
         (b)   All building code requirements for the non-residential use in
question must be met prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for
the new use. The new use shall not begin operations prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy;
         (c)   The residential uses shall not be re-established prior to six
months from the date of the certificate of occupancy for the non-residential
use; and
         (d)   After six months, the residential use may be re-established.
However, a zoning permit must be obtained prior to beginning renovations of the
building, and all building code requirements for the residential use must be
met prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the residence. The
residential use shall not begin prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
      (11)   Modifications and co-locations on existing wireless
telecommunications facilities, subject to the standards in §
153.127.
      (12)   Solar energy facilities accessory to a permitted use or approved
special use and intended to produce electricity primarily for the lot they are
located on, subject to the standards in §
153.128.
      (13)   Institutions for human care. Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums,
nursing or convalescent homes, homes for the aged, philanthropic and charitable
institutions, refer to §
153.117.
      (14)   Veterinary clinics.
      (15)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (16)   Printing and copying services, such as document creation and
reproduction, and including businesses that also ship packages.
      (17)   Religious institutions. Churches, convents, parsonages, and other
housing for religious personnel, provided that the standards in §
153.117 are met.
      (18)   Educational and social institutions. Public or private elementary
and secondary schools, institutions for higher education, and centers for
social activities, refer to §
153.117.
      (19)   Public buildings and public service installations. Publicly-owned
and operated buildings, including libraries, public utility buildings and
structures, telephone exchange buildings, transformer stations and substations,
refer to §
153.117.
      (20)   Golf courses and country clubs. Subject to the provisions of §
153.130.
      (21)   Commercial recreation facilities, including (but not limited to)
go karts, mini-golf, bowling, arcades, laser tag, swimming pool clubs,
community recreation centers, and other recreation activities.
      (22)   Indoor fitness centers, including facilities with weights, indoor
sports facilities such as tennis or basketball, and studios for dance, yoga,
martial arts, and other indoor exercise.
      (23)   Public buildings and public service installations. Such as post
offices, libraries, similar public office buildings, and public utility
offices.
      (24)   State licensed day care facilities.
      (25)   Temporary buildings, for uses incidental to construction work. The
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work or within the period of one year, whichever is the lesser
time period.
      (26)   Public parks and recreation facilities.
      (27)   Cemeteries, public or private, subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The site shall be no less than 20 acres and shall be so designed
as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major
thoroughfare, as classified on the Comprehensive Development Plan of the
village.
         (b)   The location of proposed service roads, entrances, and driveways
shall be so designed in relationship to the major thoroughfare that pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety is encouraged.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted by the application for and the issuance of a
special use permit when specified procedures and requirements, as outlined in
the sections cited, are complied with:
      (1)   Gasoline service stations. Subject to the requirements of §
153.122.
      (2)   Residential uses. Including multi-family dwellings, in existing
structures.
      (3)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a permitted use or
approved special use and designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot
they are located on, subject to the standards in §
153.129.
      (4)   Drive-throughs for food service, banking, or other product or
service, provided that the standards of §
153.132 are met.
      (5)   Auto servicing and repair garages. Subject to the requirements of §
153.122.
      (6)   Car washes.
      (7)   Parking lots on lots with no other uses.
      (8)   New wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the
standards in §
153.127.
      (9)   Hotels and motels, such as motor hotel, hotel, and transient
lodging facilities (but not including trailer camps or tent sites), including
"Bed and Breakfasts."
      (10)   Extractive uses, provided that the standards of §
153.134 are met and the Planning Commission determines that off-site negative
impacts will be minimal.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066 linking the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, and providing minimum yard setback requirements.
(Ord. 144, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 219, passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 226, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-
2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.061 B-2 DISTRICT, GENERAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. These districts are designed to cater to the needs
of a larger consumer population than is served by the local business districts
and, typically, accommodates those retail and business activities that serve
the whole community. The activities require land and structure uses that
generate large volumes of pedestrian and vehicular traffic. It is the purpose
of these regulations to recognize those retail establishments presently
existing within the village and to permit a wide variety of business enterprise
types which cannot practicably be incorporated into local business districts.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Unless otherwise indicated, all of the
following uses within this district must be wholly conducted within a
permanent, fully enclosed building, except utility structures not usually so
enclosed:
      (1)   All use permitted by right in the B-1 District.
      (2)   Public assembly buildings, including theaters, auditoriums,
churches, clubs, and lodges.
      (3)   Building supply, lawn and garden, and home improvement stores,
including lumber yards.
      (4)   Automobile dealerships for new or used automobiles.
      (5)   Car washes. Provided that the site development requirements for
gasoline service stations in §
153.122 are met.
      (6)   Outdoor display. Provided that the goods to be sold are clearly
labeled with a sign, of at least six square feet, stating that the item is
available for purchase.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses may be
permitted under the provisions of §§
153.115 through
153.126:
      (1)   All uses permitted by special use in the B-1 district.
      (2)   Manufacturing and processing establishments selling their entire
output at retail on the premises, provided that no more than five persons shall
be employed at any time in the publication, repair, and other processing of
goods.
      (3)   Kennels.
      (4)   Advertising structures, as provided in §
153.083.
      (5)   Freezer locker for retail business.
      (6)   Self storage facilities.
      (7)   Open air business uses, such as retail sales of plant material not
grown on the site, sales of lawn furniture, playground equipment, and garden
supplies.
      (8)   Drive-in theaters, provided the site development requirements of §
153.125(B)(3) are met.
      (9)   Adult entertainment establishments, provided the conditions and
requirements set forth in §
153.125(B)(4) are met.
   (D)   Site development requirements.
      (1)   General use requirements. No use in this district shall produce any
noise, objectionable odor, smoke, fumes, heat, glare, or vibration at its lot
lines so as to be detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the
village.
         (a)   Signs. Signs identifying any of the permitted uses within this
district shall be in accordance with the requirements as specified in §
153.083.
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Shall be provided
as specified in §§
153.100 and
153.101. When all frontage on one side of the street within a block is zoned B-
2 General Business and when two or more existing business structures are set
back for the purpose of providing suitable parking in front, then new
construction on adjacent lots shall conform to that setback insofar as
practical so that a joint functional parking facility can be created, otherwise
parking shall be provided at the side or rear yards. When the parking areas
abut a street or residential lot, parking facilities shall be screened by an
obscuring fence or wall at least four feet in height and shall be appropriately
painted and landscaped, subject to the review and approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted and providing minimum yard
setback requirements.
(Ord. 96, passed 9-10-1984; Ord. 144, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 103, passed 5-5-
1986; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 153, passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 221, passed 3-
11-2013; Ord. 226, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-
10-2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 M-1 DISTRICT, LIMITED INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is intended to accommodate
industrial uses, commercial storage, and related activities. The M-1 Districts
are established to permit the manufacturing, compounding, processing,
packaging, assembly, and/or treatment of finished or semifinished products from
previously prepared material such as pharmaceuticals, hardware and cutlery,
tool and die, gauge, and machine shops. It is also intended to permit
industrial and commercial uses which meet the performance standards of this
section. Commercial establishments engaged in limited retail sales and service
establishments which are of a limited nature are permitted subject to a special
use permit. It is intended to prohibit residential uses and intensive retail
enterprises as being incompatible with the primary uses permitted.
   (B)   Required information for site plan submission. Before a building
permit for a use within this district shall be issued, the owners or lessee
shall submit the following material to the Zoning Administrator for review and
approval:
      (1)   A site plan of the property showing the location of all present and
proposed buildings, drives, parking areas, waste disposal fields, landscaping,
plant materials, screening fences or walls, and other construction features
which shall be proposed. The site plan shall meet the submittal and approval
standards and be processed according to the procedures of §
153.087.
      (2)   A description of the operations proposed in sufficient detail to
indicate the effects of those operations in producing traffic congestion,
noise, glare, air pollution, water pollution, fire or safety hazards, or the
emission of any potentially harmful or obnoxious matter or radiation.
      (3)   Engineering and architectural plans for:
         (a)   The treatment and disposal of sewage and industrial waste or
unusable byproducts; and
         (b)   The proposed handling of any excess traffic congestion, noise,
glare, air pollution, water pollution, fire or safety hazards, or emission of
potentially harmful or obnoxious matter or radiation.
      (4)   The proposed number of shifts to be worked and the maximum number
of employees on each shift.
   (C)   Uses permitted. In this district, no building, structure, or land
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the following uses:
      (1)   Manufacturing uses, including any production, processing, clearing,
testing, repair, storage, and distribution of materials, goods, foodstuffs, and
other semi-finished or finished products from previously prepared material,
provided that the requirements specified in division (F) of this section are
met.
      (2)   Warehousing and storage uses.
      (3)   Trade or industrial schools.
      (4)   Public utility installations and buildings.
      (5)   Truck or rail freight terminal.
      (6)   Contractor's establishment not engaging in retail activities on the
site.
      (7)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the standards in
§
153.127.
      (8)   Solar energy facilities accessory to a permitted use or approved
special use and intended to produce electricity primarily for the lot they are
located on, subject to the standards in §
153.128.
      (9)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber, and contractor's equipment.
      (10)   Temporary buildings, for uses incidental to construction work. The
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work or within the period of one year, whichever is the lesser
time period.
      (11)   Public parks and recreation facilities.
      (12)   Accessory uses clearly appurtenant to the main use of the lot and
customary to and commonly associated with the main use, such as:
         (a)   Incidental offices for management and materials control.
         (b)   Restaurant or cafeteria facilities for employees.
         (c)   Caretaker's residence if situated upon a portion of the lot
complying with all of the requirements of the residential districts.
      (13)   Cemeteries, public or private, subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The site shall be no less than 20 acres and shall be so designed
as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major
thoroughfare, as classified on the Comprehensive Development Plan of the
village.
         (b)   The location of proposed service roads, entrances, and driveways
shall be so designed in relationship to the major thoroughfare that pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety is encouraged.
      (14)   Outdoor display. Provided that the goods to be sold are clearly
labeled with a sign, of at least six square feet, stating that the item is
available for purchase.
   (D)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures in the M-1 Zone may be permitted by the application for and the
issuance of a special use permit when specified procedures and requirements as
outlined in §
153.115 are complied with:
      (1)   Heating and electric power generating plants, other than solar or
wind facilities.
      (2)   Outdoor storage, provided that any activity in which materials
being processed or stored are located, transported, or treated outside of a
building, the use shall be provided with an obscuring, permanently maintained
fence or wall no lower than six feet high. Outdoor storage shall not be
permitted in a front yard.
      (3)   Junk yards, providing the requirements of § 153.154 are met.
      (4)   Parking lots on lots with no other uses.
      (5)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a residential use and
designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot they are located on,
subject to the standards in §
153.129.
      (6)   Extractive uses, provided that the standards of §
153.134 are met and the Planning Commission determines that off-site negative
impacts will be minimal.
      (7)   Sewage treatment, provided that the standards of §
153.125(B)(2) are met.
      (8)   Incinerators, provided that the standards of §
153.125(B)(1) are met.
      (9)   Accessory retail or restaurant/bar, as described in §
153.126.
      (10)   Agricultural uses, as listed below, provided that the lot in
question is one acre or greater in area.
         (a)   Field crop and fruit farming, truck gardening, horticulture,
aviaries, hatcheries, apiaries, greenhouses, tree nurseries, and similar
agricultural enterprises along with accessory uses incidental to the above.
         (b)   Raising and keeping of small animals, such as poultry, rabbits
and goats.
         (c)   Raising and keeping of livestock, such as cattle, hogs, horses,
and ponies may be conducted on a lot of less than ten acres, provided that all
the raising and keeping shall be for the use or consumption by the occupants of
the premises.
         (d)   General and specialized farms including the raising and keeping
for profit of cattle, hogs, horses, ponies, sheep, and similar livestock upon a
lot having an area of not less than ten acres.
         (e)   Public and private conservation areas and structures for the
conservation of water, soils, open space, forest, and wildlife resources.
         (f)   Public areas, such as forest preserves, game refuges, forest
type recreation parks, and similar public uses of low density character.
         (g)   Customary home occupations as specified for R-1A Districts, §
153.124.
         (h)   Roadside stands and other retail establishments selling products
grown on the premises upon which the stand is located, provided that contiguous
space for the parking of customer's vehicles is furnished off the public right-
of-way at the ratio of one parking space for each 15 square feet of roadside
stand floor area and provided further that all of the requirements for
accessory buildings contained in §
153.081(B) shall be met.
         (i)   Supplementary uses, such as customary accessory uses and
buildings incidental to an agricultural use that has received a special use
permit. The following accessory uses may be permitted:
            1.   The storage of not more than one unoccupied travel trailer
upon each lot or parcel.
            2.   The killing and dressing of poultry and animals produced upon
the premises.
         (j)   Riding stables and livestock auction yards.
         (k)   Raising of fur bearing animals for profit.
         (l)   Veterinary hospitals, clinics, and kennels.
         (m)   Seasonal labor housing complexes associated with agricultural
enterprises, provided that the units are maintained in safe and sanitary
condition with inside water and sanitary sewage disposal facilities and that
the structures are occupied no more than eight months in any 12-month period.
         (n)   Sawmills.
         (o)   Sod farms.
         (p)   Grain and seed elevators and sales, and cold storage for
cooperative and/or wholesale agricultural products.
      (11)   Marijuana uses. As listed below, in M-1 Districts west of Elm
Road, and not on lots abutting Grand River Avenue, provided that they are
licensed by the State of Michigan under Public Act 281 of 2016 and/or Initiated
Law 1 of 2018 and that the standards of §
153.135 are met.
         (a)   Marijuana grow operation.
         (b)   Marijuana processing facilities.
         (c)   Marijuana safety compliance facilities.
         (d)   Marijuana secure transporters.
   (E)   Use requirements.
      (1)   Noise emanating from a use in this district shall not exceed the
level of ordinary average street traffic noise. Noise shall not exceed 80
decibels as measured at the property line.
      (2)   Uses in this district shall conform to the following standards:
         (a)   Emit no obnoxious, toxic, or corrosive fumes or gases which are
deleterious to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
         (b)   Emit no smoke, odorous gases, or other odorous matter in the
quantities as to be offensive to health, safety, and general welfare at or
beyond any boundary of the use of the parcel, for the purpose of grading the
density of smoke, the shade or appearance of smoke which is equal to but not
darker than No. 1 of the Ringlemann Chart, as published and used by the United
States Bureau of Mines, may be emitted for a period not exceeding four minutes
to any 30 minutes.
         (c)   Discharge into the air no dust or other particulate matter
created by any industrial operation or emanating from any products stored prior
or subsequent to processing.
         (d)   Produce no heat or glare detrimental to the health, safety, and
general welfare at or beyond the lot boundaries.
         (e)   Produce no physical vibrations to such an extent to be
detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare at or beyond the lot
boundaries.
         (f)   Discharge no radioactive materials that exceed quantities
established by the U.S. Bureau of Standards.
         (g)   Does not include in the manufacturing process any production or
storage of any material designed for use as an explosive, nor in the use of any
such material in production.
   (F)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted and providing minimum yard
setback requirements.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 202, passed 4-21-
2008; Ord. 212, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Res., passed 6-
11-2019; Ord., passed 8-10-2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 (RESERVED)
§ 153.064 VC DISTRICT, VILLAGE CORE MIXED USE.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Village Core Mixed Use is established as a
district in which a wide variety of land uses are permitted, provided that they
conform to the dimension requirements and design features of a traditional,
walkable downtown. The mix of uses permitted is designed to create a vibrant
downtown that promotes a high quality image for the village and improves
quality of life for all residents.
   (B)   Uses permitted. In this district, no building, structure, or land
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the following uses:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the B-1 district.
      (2)   Residential dwelling units, in the following circumstances:
         (a)   On the second story (and above) of retail buildings, provided
they meet the minimum room size requirements of the Michigan Construction Code
and the following standards:
            1.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be located on the ground
floor or street level of the building. Private entrances, mailbox clusters,
garages, and similar service areas for the accessory dwellings may be located
on the ground floor or street level of the building.
            2.   Each accessory dwelling unit shall have separate kitchen,
bath, and toilet facilities and a private entrance. Where there is more than
one accessory dwelling unit in a building, such entrances may be provided from
a common hallway.
         (b)   In two-family or multiple family residential structures meeting
the dimensional requirements of the VC district.
         (c)   In single-family homes existing prior to January 1, 2015, which
may be subdivided provided that all dwelling units meet the minimum room size
requirements of the Michigan Construction Code.
      (3)   Customary home occupations. Subject to the provisions of
153.124.
      (4)   Public assembly buildings, including theatres, auditoriums,
churches, clubs, lodges.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses are permitted
in this district subject to obtaining a special use permit as provided in
Article XIX.
      (1)   Motels, hotels and other lodging facilities.
      (2)   Theaters and other places of assembly.
      (3)   Gasoline service stations. Subject to the requirements of §
153.122.
      (4)   Car washes.
      (5)   Parking lots on lots with no other uses.
      (6)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a residential use and
designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot they are located on,
subject to the standards in §
153.129.
      (7)   New wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the
standards in §
153.127.
      (8)   Auto servicing and repair garages. Subject to the requirements of
153.122.
      (9)   Automobile dealerships for new or used automobiles.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted and providing minimum yard
setback requirements.
(Ord. 96, passed 9-10-1984; Ord. 144, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 103, passed 5-5-
1986; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 153, passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 221, passed 3-
11-2013; Ord. 226, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-
10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.065 HC-1 DISTRICT, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Highway Commercial District is designed to
provide services and accommodations to motorists and for certain specialized
commercial uses, which require direct access to motor vehicle traffic and
generate a large volume of traffic. It is the purpose of these regulations in
this district to recognize the value of preserving a central business district
in the village while encouraging the development of compatible business uses in
the Highway Commercial District which generate traffic of a nature
inappropriate to the Local or General Business Districts.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right.
      (1)   All uses permitted by right in the B-1 and/or B-2 districts.
      (2)   Gasoline service stations. Subject to the requirements of §
153.122.
      (3)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a permitted use or
approved special use and designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot
they are located on, subject to the standards in §
153.129.
      (4)   Drive-throughs for food service, banking, or other product or
service, provided that the standards of §
153.132 are met.
      (5)   Auto servicing and repair garages. Subject to the requirements of §
153.122.
      (6)   Hotels and motels, such as motor hotel, hotel, and transient
lodging facilities (but not including trailer camps or tent sites), including
"Bed and Breakfasts."
      (7)   Self-storage facilities.
      (8)   Outdoor display. Provided that the goods to be sold are clearly
labeled with a sign, of at least six square feet, stating that the item is
available for purchase.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted in any Highway Commercial District upon the
application for and issuance of a special use permit, when all the procedural
requirements specified in §
153.115 are satisfied, together with any applicable requirements as outlined in
the particular section cited:
      (1)   Truck stops and truck terminals. Subject to the specific provisions
contained in §
153.122.
      (2)   Travel trailer parks, recreational vehicle campgrounds. Provided
the further requirements of §
153.121(E) are followed.
      (3)   Parking lots on lots with no other uses.
      (4)   Wind energy facilities, when accessory to a residential use and
designed to provide electricity primarily to the lot they are located on,
subject to the standards in §
153.129.
      (5)   New wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the
standards in §
153.127.
      (6)   Manufacturing and processing establishments selling their entire
output at retail on the premises, provided that no more than five persons shall
be employed at any time in the publication, repair, and other processing of
goods.
      (7)   Kennels.
      (8)   Advertising structures, as provided in §
153.083.
      (9)   Open air business uses, such as retail sales of plant material not
grown on the site, sales of lawn furniture, playground equipment, and garden
supplies.
      (10)   Drive-in theaters, provided the site development requirements of §
153.125(B)(3) are met.
      (11)   Adult entertainment establishments, provided the conditions and
requirements set forth in §
153.125(B)(4) are met.
      (12)   Extractive uses, provided that the standards of §
153.134 are met and the Planning Commission determines that off-site negative
impacts will be minimal.
      (13)   Marijuana provisioning centers, provided that they are licensed by
the State of Michigan under Public Act 281 of 2016 (commercial scale medical
marijuana) and/or Initiated Law 1 of 2018 (adult use marijuana) and that the
standards of §
153.135 are met.
   (D)   Site development requirements.
      (1)   General use requirements. No use in this district shall produce any
noise, objectionable odors, smoke fumes, heat, glare or vibration at or beyond
the lot line so as to be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
village.
      (2)   Signs. Signs identifying any of the permitted uses within this
district shall be in accordance with the requirements as specified in §
153.083.
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Shall be provided as
specified in §
153.100.
      (4)   Location. The proposed site shall have at least one property line
on a major thoroughfare.
      (5)   Driveways. No site shall have more than two drives. Drives shall be
a minimum of 20 feet wide and the middle of the drive shall not be located
within 150 feet from the center line of an existing drive.
      (6)   Area and bulk requirements. See §
153.066, Schedule of Regulations limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the
minimum size of lot permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted and
providing minimum yard setback requirements.
(Ord. 103, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 219, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-
2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021; Res., passed 3-25-2024)
§ 153.066 SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS.
Schedule of Regulations
Use R-1A R-1B R-M1 B-1 B-2 VC HC M-1
Schedule of Regulations
Use                         R-1A   R-1B   R-M1   B-1    B-2    VC   HC     M-1
Minimum Lot Dimensions
   Area (in Square Feet) 8,000  8,000  4,000  3,000  5,000  None 22,50  None
                                                                    0
   Width (in Feet)       60 (a) 60 (a) 60 (a) 100    50     None 150    None
Maximum Building Height
   Stories               2.5    2.5    3      2      2.5    4    2.5    None
   Feet                  35     35     35     28     35     50   35     75
Minimum Setbacks (in feet)
   Front                 10     10     20     20     20     None (i)    50
   Side (each)           10 (b) 10 (b) 10 (b) 10 (b) 10 (b) (b)  10 (b) (f)
                                                               (g)
   Rear                  30     30     30     40     40     10   20     (f)
Maximum Setbacks (in feet)
   Front                 None   None   None   None   None   (h)  None   None
   Side                  None   None   None   None   None   (b)  None   None
                                                               (g)
   Rear                  None   None   None   None   None   None None   None
Minimum Floor Area per Unit
   In Square Feet        1,000  1,000  (c)    (c)    (c)    (c)  N/A    N/A
Maximum Lot Coverage
   Percentage Covered by 35%    35%    None   None   None   None None   None
Structures
 
NOTES TO SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS:
(a)   In the case where a curvilinear street pattern produces irregularly
shaped lots with nonparallel side lot lines, a lesser frontage width at the
street line may be permitted, provided that the lot width at the building line
is equal to the specified lot width for that district.
(b)   On a corner lot, the front yard shall be the yard adjacent to the
narrower street frontage. If the street frontages are the same width, then the
property owner shall designate a front yard. The street frontage that is not
the front yard shall be considered the “secondary street frontage.” The setback
requirement for the secondary street frontage shall be the same as the front
yard.
(c)   For each dwelling unit in a multiple-family dwelling: 350 square feet for
1 room, 550 square feet for 2 rooms, 750 square feet for 3 rooms, and an
average of 200 square feet for each room in excess of 3 rooms.
(d)   Except that any building within 100 feet of a residential district shall
not exceed 15 feet in height.
(e)   Structures for agricultural operations may be permitted up to 75 feet in
height.
(f)   Side and rear yards shall be 10% of the lot width and depth respectively,
but need not exceed 40 feet each, except where a lot in this district abuts a
lot in any residential district. No building in the M-1 district shall be
closer than 100 feet to the property line of the residential district lot.
(g)   Equal to the side setback of the principle structure on the lot
immediately abutting the lot line in question.
(h)   The maximum front setback in the VC district shall be determined by
averaging the front setbacks of the principle buildings on the block of the lot
in question.
(i)   The minimum front setback in the HC district shall be 50 fet from M-52,
and 25 feet from all other roadways.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.067 EXCEPTIONS TO THE SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard reduction. For residential lots adjoining an alley, the
least width of a required side yard may be measured to the centerline of that
alley, provided that no building shall be erected closer than five feet to the
nearest alley right-of-way line.
   (B)   Rear yard reduction. When a lot of record in any residential district
has a depth of less than 115 feet prior to the effective date of this chapter,
the rear yard may be reduced to 20 feet. When there is a public alley at the
rear of a lot upon which the lot abuts for its full width, measurements of the
depth of the rear yard may be made to the centerline of the alley.
   (C)   Permitted yard encroachments.
      (1)   Paved terraces, patios, and uncovered porches shall not be subject
to yard requirements, provided:
         (a)   The paved area is unroofed and without the walls, parapets, or
other forms of solid, continuous enclosure that so link the paved area to the
principal building that an enclosed area is formed which appears functionally a
part of the principal building.
         (b)   The highest finished elevation of the paved area is not over
three feet above the average surrounding finished ground grade.
         (c)   No portion of any paved area is closer than five feet from any
lot line. The paved areas may have an open railing or fence not over three feet
high and may have noncontinuous windbreaks or visual screen fences or walls not
over six feet high and not enclosing more than one-half the perimeter of the
paved area.
      (2)   Unenclosed porches, roofed or unroofed, may project into a required
side or rear yard area a distance not to exceed eight feet, provided:
         (a)   The porch is unenclosed, no higher than one story, and is
erected on piers.
         (b)   The porch shall not be closer than eight feet at any point to
any side or rear lot line.
         (c)   No building shall have more than one porch in any one yard.
      (3)   Enclosed porches, either one-story, two-story, or an unenclosed
porch having solid foundations and capable of being enclosed shall be
considered an integral part of the building and shall, therefore, be subject to
all yard and area dimensional requirements established for principal buildings.
      (4)   Special structural elements, such as cornices, sills, beltcourses,
chimneys, gutters, eaves, pilasters and similar structural features may project
into any yard up to a maximum of two and one-half feet.
      (5)   Fire escapes, outside stairways, and balconies, if of open
construction, may project into the yard area up to a maximum of five feet.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.080 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prior building permits. Any building permit issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be valid, even though not conforming to
the provisions of this chapter, provided that construction is commenced within
90 days after the date of permit issuance and that the entire building shall be
completed according to the plans filed with the permit application within one
year after the issuance of the building permit.
   (B)   Access to a street. Any lot of record created after the effective date
of this chapter shall have frontage on a public street, except in the case of
an officially approved group housing development as provided in §
153.059. Any one lot of record created before the effective date of this
chapter without any frontage on a public street shall not be occupied without
access provided by an easement or other right-of-way no less than 20 feet wide.
   (C)   Rear dwelling prohibited. No building in the rear of and on the same
lot with a principal building shall be used for residential purposes except for
watchpeople, caretakers, and domestic employees whose employment functions are
related to the functions of the principal building, provided that all other
requirements of this chapter are satisfied.
   (D)   Dwelling standards. All dwellings shall comply with the minimum square
footage requirements of this chapter for the district in which it is located,
and have a core living area with a minimum dimension of 20 feet by 20 feet
within the principal portion of the building having exterior wall construction,
unless otherwise provided.
   (E)   Required water supply and sanitary sewerage facilities. After the
effective date of this chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered, or
moved upon a lot or premise and used in whole or in part for dwelling,
business, industrial, or recreational purposes unless it shall be provided with
a safe, sanitary and potable water supply and with a safe and effective means
of collection, treatment, and disposal of human excrete and domestic,
commercial, and industrial wastes. All the installations and facilities shall
conform with the minimum requirements of the County Health Department and the
State Health Department.
   (F)   Sidewalks. All new construction, and all alterations to a site
requiring site plan approval, shall trigger a requirement for the applicant to
construct a sidewalk along all adjacent public rights-of-way that do not
contain a sidewalk. This provision may be waived by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.081 SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses of structures for temporary dwelling. No structure shall be used
for dwelling purposes that does not meet the State of Michigan Building Code
requirements for a dwelling unit.
   (B)   Accessory buildings. Authorized accessory buildings may be erected as
a part of the principal building or may be connected to it by a roofed-over
porch, patio, breezeway, or similar structure, or they may be completely
detached. If attached to the principal building, an accessory building shall be
made structurally a part of it and shall comply in all respects with the
requirements applicable to the principal building. An accessory building not
attached and not made a part of the principal building, as provided in the
preceding statement, shall not be nearer than ten feet from any other separate
structure on the same lot.
      (1)   Accessory uses and garages. In residential districts, the number of
motor vehicles for which structural space may be provided as accessory to an
authorized use shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   R-1A residential districts, four motor vehicles, one of which
may be a commercial vehicle not exceeding one-ton rated capacity, and one and
one-half tons if the residence is part of an agricultural operation.
         (b)   R-1B residential districts, three motor vehicles, one of which
may be a commercial vehicle not exceeding one-ton rated capacity, and for each
5,000 square feet by which the lot exceeds the minimum lot area required, space
for one additional motor vehicle may be provided.
         (c)   R-M1 districts and group housing developments, two motor
vehicles for one-family and two-family dwellings and for each family or
household group housed in a multiple-family dwelling structure, but not more
than one of these two motor vehicles may be a commercial vehicle not exceeding
one ton rated capacity. Space in a garage accessory to a multiple-family
residence or a motel shall be rented only to occupants of the dwelling.
         (d)   A parking area of ten feet by 20 feet shall be considered as
adequate storage space for each authorized motor vehicle. Additional space may
be provided in a garage for uses incidental to a garage function or for hobby
workshops and storage areas.
      (2)   Lot coverage. The total lot coverage of accessory buildings shall
not exceed 15% in the R-1A and R-1B districts and 30% in all other districts.
      (3)   Setbacks. The required setbacks for accessory structures shall be
as follows, for all zoning districts.
         (a)   In a front yard. No accessory building shall project into any
front yard. For corner lots, the secondary street frontage shall be considered
a side yard.
         (b)   In a side or rear yard. No accessory building, including
detached garages, shall be closer than four feet to a side or rear lot line.
   (C)   Fences, walls, and screens.
      (1)   No fence, wall, or structural screen, other than plant materials,
shall be erected higher than eight feet on any residential property in the
village.
      (2)   Fences in front yards.
         (a)   M-1 District. In the M-1 District, fences in a front yard shall
not exceed six feet in height, and shall not obscure the vision of drivers at
intersections or on driveways.
         (b)   All other districts. Fences in the front yard of any property in
a district other than M-1 shall not exceed three feet in height, shall be
decorative in nature, and shall be constructed of wood, vinyl, or decorative
materials. Chain link fences are prohibited in front yards outside of the M-
1 District.
      (3)   No fence, hedge, or other screen planting shall extend into the
public-right-of-way.
      (4)   No hedge or other screen planting or other plant material shall
exceed a height of three feet in any residential front yard within the front
yard.
   (D)   Trash dumpsters.
      (1)   Location. Dumpsters shall be permitted in the side or rear yard,
provided that:
         (a)   No dumpster shall extend closer to the front of the lot than any
portion of the principal structure.
         (b)   The dumpster shall not encroach on a required parking space.
         (c)   The dumpster must be clearly accessible to servicing vehicles.
      (2)   Concrete pad. Dumpsters shall be placed on a concrete pad. The
concrete pad should extend a minimum of three feet in front of the dumpster
enclosure.
      (3)   Enclosure. Dumpsters shall be enclosed on three sides with a
permanent wall or fence, not less than six feet in height or at least six
inches above the height of the enclosed dumpster, whichever is taller. The
fourth side of the dumpster screening shall be equipped with an opaque,
lockable, gate that is the same height as the enclosure around the other three
sides. The minimum standards described above may be exceeded. Attractive
materials such as brick are encouraged.
      (4)   Site plan requirements. The location and method of screening of
dumpsters shall be shown on all site plans and approved by the Planning
Commission. Shared dumpsters used by multiple businesses are permitted.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Light fixture design.
         (a)   Overhead light poles may not exceed 25 feet in height.
         (b)   Exterior light sources greater than five feet high from grade
shall be fully shielded and directed downward at a 90 degree angle. Single-
family residences shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Maximum light intensity.
         (a)   The maximum intensity of light anywhere on a site may not exceed
20 footcandles. Lots in the VC District shall not be required to demonstrate
compliance with this standard in order to obtain site plan approval. However,
this standard shall be enforced in the VC District if a complaint is filed with
the village and the property is deemed to be out of compliance with this
standard.
         (b)   The maximum light spillage from private property onto a public
right-of-way shall be one footcandle. Lots in the VC District shall be exempt
from this requirement.
         (c)   The maximum light spillage from one property onto another shall
be 0.5 footcandles. Lots in the VC District shall be exempt from this
requirement.
      (3)   Exceptions. Temporary lighting, such as holiday decorations,
construction lighting, and emergency lighting shall be exempt from the above
requirements, provided that the light source in question does not remain in
place for more than 60 days.
      (4)   Waivers. The Planning Commission may modify or waive any or all of
the above requirements based on the specific conditions of a site, provided
that negative impacts on surrounding properties are minimal.
   (F)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping adjacent to the right-of-way.
         (a)   Street trees. Properties in the B-1, B-2, M-1, RM-1, and VC
districts must have one tree per 50 feet of road frontage. The required trees
may be located in the right-of-way if necessary due to the design of the site,
but shall be maintained by the adjacent private property owner.
         (b)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks must be installed along all road frontages
where they do not currently exist.
         (c)   Pavement adjacent to the right-of-way. In the event that a paved
parking lot abuts the right-of-way line, a five-foot wide greenbelt planted
with a continuous, three-foot-high hedge of evergreen shrubs, must be added to
physically separate the parking lot from the right-of-way. The greenbelt must
be installed along the entire frontage of the parking lot, except for driveway
entrances. Parking lots in the VC district existing prior to August 1, 2021
shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Landscaping within parking lots. Parking lots with greater than 20
spaces must provide landscaped islands to channelize traffic flow and reduce
the amount of non-permeable surface. Parking lots in the VC district existing
prior to August 1, 2021 shall be exempt from this requirement. Parking lot
islands shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Landscaped islands shall occupy at least 5% of the total parking
lot area.
         (b)   Each landscaped island shall be at least 100 square feet.
         (c)   Each landscaped island shall contain one tree.
      (3)   Landscaping between Residential and Non-Residential Districts.
Where a B-1, B-2, M-1,
or VC district abuts, or is immediately across a public right-of-way from, an
R-1A, R-1B, or RM-1 district, one of the following options must be constructed
along the property line:
         (a)   A six-foot high opaque wall constructed of brick or vinyl.
         (b)   A continuous hedge of evergreen trees, at least six feet high.
         (c)   A landscaped buffer zone at least 20 feet wide along the entire
length of the property line, containing one tree and three shrubs per 15 feet
of length.
      (4)   Waivers. The Planning Commission may modify or waive any or all of
the above requirements based on the specific conditions of a site, provided
that negative impacts on surrounding properties are minimal.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 SUPPLEMENTARY AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Exception to required lot area for residential districts. Any
residential lot created and recorded prior to the effective date of this
chapter may be used for any permitted use even though the lot area and/or
dimensions are less than those required for the district in which the lot is
located, provided:
      (1)   That the other requirements of the district are met.
      (2)   That no adjacent land or lot is owned by the owner of the lot in
question.
      (3)   That no lot shall be so reduced in area that the required open
spaces will be smaller than those established as a minimum for the district in
which the lot is located.
      (4)   That any lot so excepted shall be no less than 50 feet in width at
the street line.
   (B)   Lot area can be allocated once. No portion of a lot can be used more
than once in complying with the provisions for lot area and yard dimensions for
the construction of a proposed or the alteration of an existing building.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.083 SIGNAGE.
   All signs and sign structures, in the district noted, are subject to the
following:
   (A)   Permit required. All signs, except those otherwise noted, shall
require issuance of a permit by the Zoning Administrator who shall review each
application for compliance with this section. Each application for permit shall
include detailed plans and specifications for each sign and shall include the
type, size, location and illumination of each, and such other information
deemed necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Sign area. Sign area shall be calculated as the entire area within an
imaginary rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of the sign structure,
regardless of the shape of the sign (excluding all necessary supports or
uprights on which the sign is placed.)
      (1)   R-1A and R1-B Residential Districts. The following signs are
allowed:
         (a)   Up to 36 square feet of temporary, free standing, and non-
illuminated signs not to exceed four feet in height (including support posts)
in total.
      (2)   R-M1 multiple and group housing developments. The following signs
are allowed:
         (a)   All signs permitted in R-1A and R-1B districts.
         (b)   One free standing or attached sign or structure which shall not
exceed 24 square feet in area and which may be illuminated, provided that the
source of light is not visible.
      (3)   B-1 Local Business District, B-2 General Business District, and VC
Village Core Mixed Use District. The following signs are allowed:
         (a)   A total of four signs (any combination of wall signs or
freestanding signs) for each property, not to exceed 120 square feet in total.
Corner lots shall be permitted to have two additional signs and 60 additional
square feet. Complexes containing more than four tenants shall be permitted to
have one additional sign for each additional tenant.
         (b)   All light sources and immediately adjacent reflecting surfaces
shall be shielded from view, and no flashing lights or animated devices shall
be permitted. For the purposes of this section, the image or text on an
electronic message board sign shall not change more frequently than every six
seconds, and a sequential illumination sign shall not change more frequently
than every three seconds.
         (c)   Wall signs shall be subject to the following requirements:
            1.   No wall sign shall extend farther than 12 inches from the face
of the wall to which it is attached, provided, however, that where a sign
extends over a public sidewalk more than three inches from the face of the
wall, the bottom of the sign shall not be closer than eight feet to the ground
or sidewalk level below the sign.
            2.   The maximum width of any sign shall not exceed 90% of the
width of the facade to which it is attached.
            3.   The total sign area of all signs permitted on the face of any
wall shall not exceed 20% of the area of the face of the wall upon which such
sign or signs are attached, inclusive of windows and doorways. Signs may be
attached to any face of the building.
         (d)   Freestanding signs. One of the permitted signs may be a
freestanding sign when the building is set back at least 25 feet from the front
lot line, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   No part of such sign shall be located closer than ten feet
from any street line adjacent to the premises.
            2.   The area of such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet per
side.
            3.   Such sign shall not be closer to any side lot line than a
distance equal to its height.
            4.   The height of all such signs shall be limited to eight feet in
height.
            5.   The base of a freestanding sign must have the same width as
the sign itself, and may not exceed two feet in height. The base of a
freestanding sign must be made of materials designed to match the principal
building on the site. Pylon signs are not permitted.
         (e)   Sandwich board signs shall not exceed six square feet on each
side, with a maximum height of 42 inches, subject to the following
requirements:
            1.   Such signs may be located in the right-of-way but must be
within five feet of a building entrance.
            2.   The sign location shall not reduce the passable area of the
sidewalk below five feet, and shall not obstruct any door, including vehicle
doors, windows or fire escapes, and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
            3.   Such sign shall not be illuminated, nor shall it contain
moving parts or have balloons, streamers, pennants or similar adornments
attached to it.
            4.   Such sign shall be placed only during the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m., and shall be stored within a completely enclosed building when
not in use.
            5.   The village retains the right to remove such sign for
municipal purposes related to snow removal, traffic issues, utility maintenance
and the like.
            6.   Signs shall be stable and self-supporting. It is the
responsibility of the sign owner to remove the sign during inclement weather,
such as wind, rain or snow. No such sign shall be placed when there is a snow
accumulation on the sidewalk. The village accepts no liability for any injury
or damage caused by a sandwich board sign.
            7.   Such signs shall require a permit, but do not count as one of
the signs permitted by division (B)(3)(a) of this section.
         (f)   Signs attached to a pedestrian bench or other similar public
structure are permitted, but shall require a permit.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies, or marquees, with or without signage, may be
permitted, provided:
            1.   Signs shall be located on the vertical surfaces of the
structure or covering.
            2.   Any signs on an awning, canopy, or marquee shall be counted as
one of the signs permitted by division (B)(3)(a) of this section, and shall be
considered a wall sign for purposes of calculating the total allowable square
footage of wall signage for the site.
            3.   The awning shall not extend more than eight feet from the wall
to which it is attached.
            4.   The awning shall extend no closer than two feet to the curb
line of the adjacent street.
            5.   The awning, including any valence or fringe features, shall
hang no less than eight feet above the highest point on the ground (including
stairs or thresholds) underneath it.
            6.   The applicant must obtain a sign permit for the sign and a
building permit for the installation.
         (h)   Projecting signs not exceeding 20 square feet in area are
permitted to project from the front building face, provided:
            1.   No sign may project a distance in excess of six feet from the
wall to which it is attached, and no closer than two feet to the curb line of
the adjacent street.
            2.   No sign shall be hung less than eight feet above the ground or
sidewalk level below it.
            3.   A projecting sign shall be counted as one of the signs
permitted by division (B)(3)(a) of this section.
            4.   The top of the sign may not extend more than six feet above
the height of the roof line.
         (i)   Window signs are permitted when attached to the inside of a
window or door of a building, provided that the total window sign area shall
not exceed 25% of the total glass area of the window or door to which it is
attached. Such signs shall not require a permit, and do not count as a sign
permitted by (B)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   HC-1 Highway Commercial Districts. The following signs are allowed:
         (a)   All signs permitted in the B-1, B-2, and VC districts.
         (b)   Advertising structures permitted under the Highway Advertising
Act, M.C.L.A. 252.301.
         (c)   Freestanding signs. One of the permitted signs may be a
freestanding sign when the building is set back at least 25 feet from all
street lines adjacent to the premises, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   No part of such sign shall be located closer than ten feet
from any street line adjacent to the premises.
            2.   The area of such sign shall not exceed 32 square feet per
side.
            3.   Such sign shall not be closer to any side lot line than a
distance equal to its height.
            4.   The height of all such signs shall be limited to the height of
the building to which it is related, but in no case shall the sign exceed 25
feet in height.
            5.   Pylon signs are permitted, provided that the sign is
structurally sound.
      (5)   M-1 Industrial District. The following signs are allowed:
         (a)   Any sign permitted in any residential, agricultural, or business
districts and subject to the same requirements for those districts.
         (b)   Advertising structures permitted under the Highway Advertising
Act, M.C.L.A. 252.301.
      (6)   Tourist-oriented directional signs. The village may permit tourist-
oriented directional signs, as defined by M.C.L.A. 247.401, within its
jurisdictional boundaries, as provided by and pursuant to M.C.L.A. 247.403(7),
with the following conditions.
         (a)   An operator of a tourist-oriented activity who wishes to
participate in a directional sign program under Public Act 299 of 1996, as
amended, and is applying for a sign that would reside within the boundaries of
the village in accordance with the provisions of Public Act 299 of 1996, 2,
being M.C.L.A. 247.402, shall submit the application for review by the Village
Council or its designee.
         (b)   The Village Council or its designee may approve or reject the
placement of any tourist-oriented directional sign within its jurisdictional
boundaries under the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   The Village Council may appoint a designee by resolution to
approve or reject the placement of any tourist-oriented directional sign within
its jurisdictional boundaries under the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are not allowed in any zoning
district:
         (a)   Signs which are illegal under state or local law regulation or
ordinance.
         (b)   Signs or sign structures which are not clean or in good repair,
and which pose a hazard to the general public.
         (c)   Signs of any type that are located on a lot with no building or
structure.
         (d)   Signs not securely affixed to a substantial, permanent structure
or foundation, on the premises.
         (e)   Signs which attempt or appear to attempt to regulate, warn, or
direct the movement of traffic or which interfere with or resemble any official
traffic sign, signal, or device.
         (f)   Signs which are erected or maintained upon trees, painted or
drawn upon rock, or other natural features.
         (g)   Signs which project above the cornice or roof line of the
related use, except as otherwise noted.
         (h)   Signs depicting specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in §
153.003.
         (i)   Signs which are not consistent with the standards in this
chapter.
      (8)   Substitution. Any sign permitted to contain commercial messaging,
including advertising structures permitted under the Highway Advertising Act,
M.C.L.A. 252.301, is permitted to substitute a non-commercial message for a
commercial message. The intent of this clause is to prevent inadvertent
favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech that may be implied by
any other part of this section.
      (9)   Waiver process. The Village Council, after a public hearing that
meets the requirements of the State of Michigan and this chapter, shall have
the ability to waive or modify any of the above standards, provided that the
following criteria are met. A waiver granted under this section shall apply for
the lifespan of the sign in question, but shall not be transferable to any
other sign or premises.
         (a)   The applicant provides all requested information and pays all
applicable application and review fees, to be determined by the Village
Council.
         (b)   The proposed sign does not endanger the public health, safety,
and welfare by virtue of being distracting to drivers, obscuring vision, being
unnecessarily bright, being designed or constructed poorly, or in any other
way.
         (c)   The design of the sign is consistent with the character of the
surrounding area.
         (d)   The sign does not block the view of other nearby signs to the
extent that it would harm the ability of neighboring businesses to operate.
         (e)   The sign will not be a nuisance to any residential uses.
         (f)   A sign designed to meet the standards of this chapter would not
adequately serve the purpose desired by the applicant.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 SUPPLEMENTARY HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted exceptions: structural appurtenances. The following kinds of
structural appurtenances shall be permitted to exceed the height limitations
for uses and the following permitted exceptions may be authorized only when all
of the following conditions can be satisfied. No portion of any building or
structure permitted as an exception to a height limitation shall be used for
human occupancy or for commercial enterprise. Any structural exception to
height limitations shall be erected only to the height as may be necessary to
accomplish the purpose it is intended to serve, so as not to become a hazard to
aviation. If the roof area of the structural elements permitted to exceed the
height limitations exceed 20% of the gross roof area, they shall be considered
as integral parts of the whole structure, and thereby shall not be eligible for
permission to exceed height limitations:
      (1)   Ornamental in purpose, such as church spires, belfries, cupolas,
domes, ornamental towers, flag poles, and monuments.
      (2)   Appurtenances to mechanical or structural functions, such as
chimneys and smoke stacks, water tanks, elevators and stairwells, penthouses,
ventilators, bulkheads, radio towers, masts, aerials, television antennas, fire
and hose towers, and cooling towers.
      (3)   Commercial freestanding towers, when not attached to a building or
structure, shall be constructed under applicable state and federal regulations
of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Freestanding towers, such as TV or radio towers intended primarily
to serve the occupants of the main structure, shall not exceed one and one-half
the structural height limitation for structures in that district.
      (5)   Wireless telecommunications towers (see §
153.127).
   (B)   Permitted exceptions: residential districts. There shall be no
exceptions permitted for residential structures. However, certain
nonresidential structures in residential districts may be permitted to exceed
height limitations as described above.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.085 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to protect
those areas of the village which are subject to predictable flooding in the
floodplain areas of the major rivers, their branches and tributaries within the
village, so that the reservoir capacity shall not be reduced, thereby creating
danger to areas previously not so endangered in time of high water, or to
impede, retard, accelerate, or change the direction of the flow or carrying
capacity of the river valley or to otherwise increase the possibility of flood.
The regulations, while permitting reasonable use of the properties, will help
to protect human life, prevent or minimize material and economic losses, and
reduce the cost to the public in time of emergency, through public aid and
relief efforts occasioned by the unwise occupancy of the flood areas. All land
included in the floodplain area shall be subject to the requirements specified
herein, in addition to the normal zoning district requirements in which the
land shall be located.
   (B)   Floodplain areas. The floodplain areas within the village shall be
those delineated as the "100 year flood plain" on the official map produced by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (C)   Permitted principal uses. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, no building or structure shall be erected, converted, or structurally
altered, and no land and/or structure shall be used within the boundaries of
the 100 year flood plain, except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Open space uses, such as farms, truck gardens, nurseries, parks,
playgrounds, golf courses, preserves, bridle trails, nature paths, private or
commercial recreation, and other similar open uses.
      (2)   Off-street parking uses, provided that all parking shall be at
grade level and in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.100 and
153.101.
      (3)   Yard and setback areas required for any district within the
floodplain areas may be included within the floodplain areas. However, the
elevation of the lowest floor designed or intended for human habitation shall
be at least three feet above the established floodplain.
   (D)   Uses permitted by special use permit. Permitted use of land and
structures in the relevant Zoning District may be permitted within the
delineated flood plain by the application for and the issuance of a special use
permit with specified procedures and requirements, as outlined and shall be
subject to an engineering finding by the Village Engineer that the requirements
of this section are satisfied, provided that the use pattern and the structures
proposed to accomplish the use shall:
      (1)   Be so designed as not to reduce the water impoundment capacity of
the floodplain or significantly change the volume or speed of the flow of
water. The design may be accomplished by the use of piles, stilts,
cantilevering, or other such construction methods which will place the desired
building and structures above the determined flood elevation in a safe manner
so that the foundation and structural supports of buildings and structures will
withstand the anticipated level, volume, and velocity of the flood waters and
coincidentally minimize the impending of the natural free flow of the flood
waters.
      (2)   All buildings constructed under the special use permits shall have
a minimum first floor elevation of not less than three feet above the
established floodplain.
      (3)   Dumping or backfilling in the floodplain areas with any material in
any manner shall be prohibited unless through compensating excavation and
shaping of the floodplain, provided the flow and natural impoundment capacity
of the floodplain will be maintained or improved so that no significant or
measurable change in flow or reduction in impoundment capacity of the
floodplain would thereby result.
      (4)   Utilities, roads, and railroads may be permitted, when designed so
as not to increase the possibility of flood or be otherwise detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (5)   Under no circumstances shall the village incur any liability
whatsoever for the granting of any use or building in floodplain areas.
   (E)   Data submission. Prior to the issuance of a building permit for
structures on/or adjacent to floodplain areas, the Zoning Administrator shall
require the applicant for the permit to submit topographic data, engineering
studies, proposed site plans, or other similar data needed to determine the
possible effects of flooding on a proposed structure and/or the effect of the
structure on the flow of water. All the required data shall be prepared by a
registered professional civil engineer.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent of this chapter to permit the
continuance of a lawful use of any building or land existing at the effective
date of this chapter, although the use of land or structures may not conform
with the provisions of this chapter. It is also recognized that the uses are
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved and it is the
purpose of this chapter not to encourage the survival of these nonconforming
uses and structures. Further, it is the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
districts. The continuance of all nonconforming uses and structures within the
village shall be subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Structural changes or enlargement. The building or land use that is
nonconforming shall not be structurally changed, altered, or enlarged unless
the resultant changed, altered, or enlarged building or use conforms to the
provisions of this chapter for the district in which it is located. A basement,
cellar, garage, or any incompletely constructed structure in use as a dwelling
on the effective date of this chapter may be used as a dwelling following the
date, however, owners are encouraged to bring the structures to a state of
completion in conformance with the regulations of this chapter relative to
dwellings in the district in which the structure is located. If a change of
ownership occurs, the structure shall be deemed a nonconforming use and shall
be immediately discontinued. If a vacancy in such a structure occurs, the
provisions of division (E) of this section shall apply.
   (C)   Repair of nonconforming buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the repair, improvement, or modernizing of a lawful nonconforming
building to correct deterioration, obsolescence, depreciation, and wear,
provided that the repair does not exceed an aggregate cost of 30% of the
assessed value of the building, unless the subject building is changed by the
repair to a conforming use.
   (D)   Reconstruction and restoration. Any lawful nonconforming use damaged
by fire, explosion, an act of God, or by other causes, may be restored,
rebuilt, or repaired, provided that the restoration does not exceed 50% of its
assessed value, exclusive of foundations.
   (E)   Discontinuance or abandonment. Whenever a nonconforming use has been
discontinued for six consecutive months, or for 18 months during any three-year
period, the discontinuance shall be considered conclusive evidence of an
intention to abandonment. The nonconforming use shall not be reestablished, and
any future use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Changing uses. If no structural alterations are made, the Zoning Board
of Appeals may authorize a change from one nonconforming use to another
nonconforming use, provided the proposed use would be more suitable to the
zoning district in which it is located than the nonconforming use which is
being replaced. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a more nearly
conforming use or to a conforming use, the use shall not revert or be changed
back to a nonconforming or less conforming use.
   (G)   Prior construction approval. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit
the completion of construction and use of a nonconforming building for which a
building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this chapter,
provided that construction is commenced within 90 days after the date of
issuance of the permit and that the entire building shall have been completed
according to plans filed with the permit application within one year after the
issuance of the building permit.
   (H)   Termination of nonconforming land uses. The nonconforming uses of land
existing at the effective date of this chapter where no building is located may
be continued, provided that the nonconforming land use shall be terminated and
converted to conform with the provisions of this chapter within three years
after the effective date of this chapter, and provided further, that the
nonconforming land use shall not in any way be expanded or extended during this
three-year interval, either on the same property or adjoining property.
   (I)   Illegal nonconforming uses. Nonconforming uses of buildings or land
existing at the effective date of this chapter established without a building
permit, or those nonconforming uses which cannot be proved conclusively as
existing prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be declared illegal,
nonconforming uses and shall be discontinued within a period of three years
following the effective date of this chapter, subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (J)   District changes. Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be
changed so as to transfer an area from one district to another district of
another classification, the provisions of this section shall also apply to any
existing uses that become nonconforming as a result of the boundary changes.
   (K)   Elimination of nonconforming uses. In accordance with Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. 125.3101 through 125.3702,
as amended, the Village Council may acquire properties on which nonconforming
buildings or uses are located, by condemnation or other means, and may remove
the uses or may be used by the village for a public use. The net cost of the
acquisition may be assessed against a benefit district, or may be paid from
other sources of revenue.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.087 SITE PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Village Council finds that commercial,
industrial, multi-family, and certain other uses in the village have a
substantial impact upon the character of the community, and upon traffic,
utilities, and property values all affecting the public health, safety, and
general welfare. In order to foster the attractiveness of the community and to
enhance and preserve its desirability as a place to live and to work, preserve
property values, and in order to provide an efficient road and utility network,
ensure the movement of traffic, implement comprehensive planning and better
serve the public health, safety, and general welfare, it is determined that
site plans for the uses shall be required and reviewed according to the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Site plan review.
      (1)   Uses subject to site plan review. Except as provided in division
(B)(2) of this section, no nonresidential principal building shall be erected,
moved, externally altered, added to, or have any change in use which would
affect its approved off-street parking, loading, landscaping, or signage, and
no building or land shall be used nor any building, grading, or occupancy
permit shall be issued except in accordance with a site plan approved under
this section. Specifically, site plan review shall apply to all new
construction, including building additions and accessory uses, for the
following:
         (a)   All uses permitted by right in the following districts:
            1.   Commercial (B-1, B-2, and HC);
            2.   Mixed use (VC);
            3.   Industrial (M-1); and
            4.   Multiple-family (R-M1).
         (b)   Special land uses in all districts, and as reviewed pursuant to
the requirements of §§
153.115 through
153.134.
         (c)   All planned unit developments.
         (d)   All platted subdivisions developed pursuant to the Land Division
Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended.
         (e)   All site condo, condominium subdivisions, and other condominium
projects developed pursuant to the Condominium Act (M.C.L.A. 559.101 et seq.).
         (f)   All developments in wetlands and 100-year floodplains, including
single-family homes, for which a permit is required by the Michigan Department
of Environmental Quality.
         (g)   For any other use or development for which the submission of a
site plan is required by this chapter.
      (2)   Exceptions. The site plan review requirements of this section do
not apply to single-family homes and associated accessory structures unless
they fall under a category in division (B)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Administrative review. The site plan review requirements of this
section may be waived in whole or in part in favor of administrative review and
approval by the Zoning Administrator for projects which have limited potential
of causing serious impacts on the land in question, the neighboring properties,
or the community as a whole. The Zoning Administrator may seek the input of the
Village Planner, the Village Engineer, and others as necessary prior to any
administrative approval. The Zoning Administrator shall report all
administrative review actions each month to the Village Council with detailed
information as to the nature of the application and the criteria upon which the
decision to approve the application administratively was made.
   (C)   Reviewing authority. Site plans shall be reviewed and approved,
approved with conditions, or disapproved by the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission as provided in this section. The authority shall include
review by the Zoning Administrator, special committees, or other outside
experts and other public agencies, in accordance with procedures, requirements,
and standards of this chapter.
   (D)   Conceptual development site plan review. Applicants are encouraged to
submit a conceptual development site plan for review by the Zoning
Administrator and Village Planner. The intent of the conceptual site plan
review is to minimize errors, miscalculations, or misconceptions prior to the
submission for preliminary site plan review. This procedure is intended to be
for informational purposes only and shall not necessarily bear directly upon
later reviews. Proposed new construction on parcels of land which are
undeveloped or are to be redeveloped, or which will be developed in phases, are
especially encouraged to seek this review prior to the submission for
preliminary site plan review. The purpose of this is to indicate the general
design and layout of the project and to demonstrate the ability to be approved
as a site plan before substantial sums of money have been spent on design work.
   (E)   Site plan review procedures. Applications requiring site plan review
shall follow the following process:
      (1)   Applications for site plan review shall be submitted to the Village
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, Village Planner, Village Engineer, and
others at the request of the Planning Commission shall review the site plan and
submit written comments to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the site plan, based on
compliance of the site plan with this chapter. If denied, reasons for the
denial shall be cited. If approved, the applicant may submit an application for
the necessary building permits.
      (3)   Applications for site plan approval for all projects (minor and
major) shall consist of the following, unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator when the information would serve no substantially beneficial
purpose:
         (a)   An application form and appropriate fee as adopted by the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Ten reproducible copies of the site plan, no larger than 11
inches by 17 inches, with an appropriate text and graphic scale, shall be
submitted with the application.
         (c)   Legal description, lot line dimensions and bearings, tax parcel
number(s), certificate of survey, and address of the site.
         (d)   Proof of ownership, name and address of property owner of record
and the developer. Include telephone and fax numbers.
         (e)   Existing development:
            1.   Zoning and property information:
               a.   Zoning district of site and all adjacent property;
               b.   Land use of the site and adjacent property;
               c.   Proposed use of site; and
               d.   Lot area, in acres and/or square feet, excluding existing
road rights-of-way as well as that in proposed rights-of-way.
            2.   Existing deed restrictions, if any.
            3.   Location and outline of all existing development on the site,
such as buildings, drives, parking areas, wells, septic tanks, drain fields,
utilities, poles, ditches, underground storage tanks, above-ground storage
areas, and the like. Include the location of any existing floor drains.
            4.   Location, width, and purpose of existing easements.
            5.   Location of adjacent buildings, drives and parking areas.
         (f)   Proposed development:
            1.   Ground floor and total floor area to be constructed.
            2.   Floor coverage ratio (ground floor area/lot area).
            3.   Floor area ratio (total floor area divided by net lot area).
            4.   Number and types of dwelling units by number of bedrooms and
density for residential projects.
            5.   Building height, in feet and number of floors.
            6.   Number and type of buildings.
            7.   Required yards and transition strips (delineated on the plan).
            8.   Number of parking spaces required and provided with supporting
calculations.
            9.   Size of parking spaces and parking lot aisles.
            10.   Amount of recreational and open space facilities to be
provided.
            11.   Proposed deed restrictions, if any.
            12.   Proposed construction and completion dates.
            13.   Projected number of employees by shift.
         (g)   General proposed utility layout for sanitary sewer, water,
lighting, and storm water systems.
         (h)   Location and screening of trash storage areas.
         (i)   The location of any floor drains in proposed structures on the
site. The point of discharge for all drains and pipes shall be specified on the
site plan.
         (j)   The location and elevations of existing water courses and water
bodies, including county drains and manmade surface drainageways, floodplains,
and wetlands.
         (k)   Location of existing and proposed public water mains, public and
private drinking water wells, monitoring wells, irrigation wells, test wells,
or wells used for industrial processes.
         (l)   Inventory of hazardous substances to be stored, used or
generated on-site, presented in a format acceptable to the Village Fire Chief
(include CAS numbers). (CAS number = Chemical Abstract Service Number. This is
a unique number for every chemical established by a Columbus, Ohio,
organization which indexes information published in Chemical Abstracts by the
American Chemical Society).
         (m)   Description and location for any proposed above-ground and
below-ground storage facilities.
         (n)   Descriptions of type of operations proposed for the project and
drawings showing size, location, and description of any proposed interior or
exterior areas of structures for storing, using, loading or unloading of
hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, and/or polluting materials.
         (o)   Delineation of areas on the site which are known or suspected to
be contaminated, together with a report on the status of cleanup or closure.
         (p)   Existing topography, at two-foot contour intervals.
         (q)   Location and type of natural features on or adjacent to the
site, such as woods, streams, marshes, wetlands, fence rows, individual trees
of six inches or larger caliper when not located in a woods, 100-year flood
hazard area depicted in plan view.
         (r)   Soils information, for sites utilizing onsite septic tanks and
drainfields, location and extent of soils that are unbuildable in their natural
state because of organic content or water table.
         (s)   Location and overall dimensions of existing structures and
drives.
         (t)   Surface type and width of streets adjacent to site, and surface
elevations of existing street at the intersection of each proposed driveway or
street.
         (u)   Existing utilities serving the site location, size, inverts,
fire hydrants, gatewells, manholes, and catch basins, location and elevations
of ditches, culverts, and bridges adjacent to the site, location of utility
poles and lines, and location and size of natural gas lines and appurtenances.
         (v)   Completion of the environmental permits checklist on the form
provided by the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Approval of the site plan is valid for a period of one year. If a
final site plan for a major development project, or any phase of a major
development project, has not been submitted during that period, the approval of
the preliminary site plan shall be void. Preliminary site plans which expire
shall be required to be resubmitted and be processed as original applications.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may refer the site plan to a special committee
or to the Downtown Development Authority for additional review and
recommendation prior to final review.
   (H)   Other requirements:
      (1)   For uses having frontage and/or access on a regional arterial, the
number, design and location of access driveways and other provisions for
vehicular circulation shall comply with the requirements of the State
Department of Transportation or the County Road Commission as applicable.
      (2)   Landscaping, fences, screens, landscape buffers, and greenbelts
shall be provided and designed in accordance with the provisions of §
153.081(F).
      (3)   All elements of the site plan shall be designed to take into
account the site's topography, the size and type of plot, the character of
adjoining property and the type and size of buildings. The site shall be
developed so as not to impede the normal and orderly development or improvement
of surrounding property for uses permitted in this chapter.
      (4)   The landscape shall be preserved in its natural state, insofar as
practical, by removing only those areas of vegetation or making those
alterations to the topography which are reasonably necessary to develop the
site in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   The site plan shall provide reasonable visual and sound privacy for
all dwelling units. Fences, walks, barriers, and landscaping shall be used, as
appropriate, to accomplish these purposes.
      (6)   All buildings or groups of buildings shall be arranged so as to
permit necessary emergency vehicle access as required by the Fire Department.
      (7)   A pedestrian circulation system which is separated from the
vehicular circulation system may be required. In order to ensure public safety,
special pedestrian measures, such as sidewalks, crosswalks, crossing signals,
and other such facilities may be required in the vicinity of schools,
playgrounds, shopping areas and other uses which generate a considerable amount
of pedestrian traffic.
      (8)   The arrangement of public or common ways for vehicle and pedestrian
circulation shall be connected to existing or planned streets and pedestrian or
bicycle pathways in the area. Streets and drives which are part of an existing
or planned street pattern serving adjacent development shall be of a width
appropriate to the traffic volume they will carry and shall have a dedicated
right-of-way equal to that required in the standards of the County Road
Commission.
      (9)   All streets shall be developed in accordance with Chapter 152 and
County Road Commission specifications.
      (10)   Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that removal of
surface waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties or the public
storm drainage system. Provisions shall be made to accommodate storm water,
prevent erosion and the formation of dust. The use of detention/retention ponds
may be required. Surface water on all paved areas shall be collected at
intervals so that it will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic or create puddles in paved areas. All on-site storm drainage facilities
shall be developed in accordance with the specifications of the County Drain
Commissioner's office and/or the Village Engineer, as applicable.
      (11)   Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away
from adjacent properties and so that it does not impede the vision of traffic
along adjacent streets. Flashing or intermittent lights shall not be permitted.
      (12)   Properties abutting streets which have right-of-way deficiencies,
shall provide additional right-of-way to the appropriate agency as determined
by the Village Council. The additional right-of-way shall be provided to the
appropriate agency via written documentation prior to final site plan approval
by the Zoning Administrator.
      (13)   Safe, suitable, and adequate access shall be provided. The
following factors shall be considered when determining whether safe and
adequate access exists:
         (a)   Generally developments generating more than 500 trips per day
shall be required to
provide a second access point. Trip generation estimates shall be based upon
equations/rates provided in the most recent edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
         (b)   Topography and natural features surrounding the subject parcel
shall be considered.
         (c)   The provision of outlots, stub streets, and the like which may
facilitate future access.
         (d)   The likelihood of adjacent properties being developed in the
near future such that they could be connected to the subject parcel.
         (e)   Proximity to emergency services.
         (f)   The adequacy of the proposed street intersection in terms of
sight distances, spacing, slope, and the like.
      (14)   The project and related improvements shall be designed to protect
land and water resources from pollution, including pollution of soils,
groundwater, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, and wetlands.
      (15)   Stormwater detention, retention, transport, and drainage
facilities shall, insomuch as feasible, be designed to use or enhance the
natural stormwater system on-site, including the storage and filtering capacity
of wetlands, watercourses, and water bodies, and/or the infiltration capability
of the natural landscape. Stormwater facilities shall be designed so as not to
cause flooding or the potential for pollution of surface or groundwater, on-
site or off-site.
      (16)   General purpose floor drains shall be connected to a public sewer
system or an on-site holding tank (not a septic system) in accordance with
state, county and municipal requirements, unless a groundwater discharge permit
has been obtained from the State Department of Environmental Quality. General
purpose floor drains which discharge to groundwater are generally prohibited.
      (17)   Sites at which hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, or
potentially polluting materials are stored, used, or generated shall be
designed to prevent spills and discharges of the materials to the air, surface
of the ground, groundwater, lakes, streams, rivers, or wetlands.
      (18)   Secondary containment facilities shall be provided for above-
ground storage of hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, or potentially
polluting materials in accordance with state and federal requirements. Above-
ground secondary containment facilities shall be designed and constructed so
that the potentially polluting material cannot escape from the unit by gravity
through sewers, drains, or other means, directly or indirectly into a sewer
system, or to the waters of the state (including groundwater).
      (19)   Underground storage tanks shall be registered, installed,
operated, maintained, closed, or removed in accordance with regulations of the
State Department of Environmental Quality.
      (20)   Above-ground storage tanks shall be certified, installed,
operated, maintained, closed, or removed in accordance with regulations of the
State Department of Environmental Quality.
      (21)   Bulk storage facilities for pesticides and fertilizers shall be in
compliance with requirements of the State Department of Agriculture.
      (22)   Abandoned water wells (wells that are no longer in use or are in
disrepair), abandoned monitoring wells, and cisterns shall be plugged in
accordance with regulations and procedures of the State Department of
Environmental Quality and the County Health Department.
      (23)   State and federal requirements for storage, spill prevention,
recordkeeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of hazardous
substances, hazardous wastes, liquid industrial waste or potentially polluting
materials shall be met. No discharge to surface water or groundwater, including
direct and indirect discharges of waste, waste effluent, wastewater,
pollutants, or cooling water, shall be allowed without approval from
appropriate state, county, and local agencies.
   (I)   Validity of final site plans.
      (1)   Approval of final site plan is valid for a period of one year. If
actual physical construction of a substantial nature of the improvements
included in the approved site plan have not commenced and proceeded
meaningfully toward completion during that period, the approval of the final
site plan shall be void.
      (2)   Upon written application, filed prior to the termination of the
one-year site plan review/approval period, the Village Council may authorize a
single extension of the time limit for approval of a final site plan for a
further period of not more than one year. The extension shall only be granted
based on evidence from the applicant that the development has a likelihood of
commencing construction within, but not to exceed, one-year extension.
   (J)   Conformance prior to site plan approval. Prior to approving a site
plan, the Planning Commission shall require that the site plan conform to this
chapter, as amended.
   (K)   Conditions of approval.
      (1)   As part of an approval to any site plan, the Zoning Administrator
or Planning Commission may impose the conditions or limitations as in its
judgment may be necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, and
general welfare as provided by appropriate standards in this chapter.
      (2)   The conditions shall be related to and ensure that the site plan
review requirements of division (F) of this section are met.
      (3)   Approval of a site plan, including conditions made as part of the
approval, is attached to the property described as part of the application and
not to the owner of the property.
      (4)   A record of conditions imposed shall be maintained. The conditions
shall remain unchanged unless an amendment to the site plan is approved.
      (5)   A record of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and of the
Planning Commission, the reason for the decision reached, and any conditions
attached to that decision shall be kept and made part of the minutes of the
Planning Commission.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall make periodic investigations of
development for which site plans have been approved. Noncompliance with the
requirements and conditions of the approved site plan shall constitute grounds
for the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator, whichever had final
review/approval authority, to initiate a violation notice and enforcement
action to gain compliance with the approved site plan. Any action to terminate
site plan approval shall follow a hearing, of which the applicant or owner
shall be given advance notice by certified mail.
   (L)   Amendments to approved site plans.
      (1)   Any person who has been granted site plan approval shall notify the
Zoning Administrator of any proposed amendment to the approved site plan. The
Zoning Administrator shall have the power to approve amendments to approve site
plans, unless one of the following applies, in which case the Planning
Commission shall approve the revised site plan.
         (a)   The addition of land to the legal description of the original
site plan approval;
         (b)   The establishment of another use or uses;
         (c)   The addition of more sales or service area, or the addition of
dwelling units; and/or
         (d)   An expansion or increase in intensity of use.
   (M)   Appeal.
      (1)   An appeal of a Zoning Administrator's decision site plan shall be
to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   An appeal of a Zoning Board of Appeals decision shall be to the
County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.088 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Generally. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, Village
Council, or Zoning Board of Appeals may require the posting of a performance
guarantee to assure the completion of improvements or actions such as roadways,
utilities, fencing, or drainage, considered necessary to protect natural
resources or the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the village.
The proof of guarantee must be deposited with the Village Treasurer at the time
of permit issuance.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The performance guarantee can be one or a combination of the
following arrangements as allowed by the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Board of Appeals:
         (a)   A performance or surety bond. The bonds shall list the time
period in which the improvements are to be completed and shall be with an
acceptable bonding company authorized to do business in the state.
         (b)   A cash deposit or certified check to be held by the Village
Treasurer. The escrow account shall be for the time period estimated necessary
to complete the required improvements.
         (c)   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank authorized to
do business in the state.
         (d)   The amount of the performance guarantees shall be determined by
the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Board
of Appeals.
         (e)   Cash deposits shall be rebated or released to the proprietor in
amounts equal to the ratio of completed and accepted improvements to the entire
guaranteed improvements.
         (f)   Performance guarantees may not be required for improvements
guaranteed pursuant to the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.089 PROFESSIONAL REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Generally. Any application for site plan approval, a special use
permit, planned unit development, variance, or other use or activity requiring
a permit under this chapter above the following threshold, may require the
deposit of fees to be held in escrow in the name of the applicant. An escrow
fee shall be required by either the Zoning Administrator or the Planning
Commission for any development project unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator or Village Council. Waiver shall be based on a written conclusion
that there is no substantial information or analysis benefit to accrue as a
result of the application of this section. An escrow fee may be requested to
obtain a professional review of any other project which may, in the discretion
of the Zoning Administrator or Village Council, create an identifiable and
potentially negative impact on public infrastructure or services, or on
adjacent properties, and, because of which, professional input is desired
before a decision to approve, deny, or approve with conditions is made.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The escrow shall be used to pay professional review expenses of
engineers, community planners, and other professionals whose expertise the
village values to review the proposed application and/or site plan of an
applicant. Professional review will result in a report to the village
indicating the extent of conformance or nonconformance with this chapter and to
identify any problems which may create a threat to public health, safety, or
the general welfare. Mitigation measures or alterations to a proposed design
may be identified where they would serve to lessen or eliminate identified
impacts. The applicant will receive a copy of any professional review hired by
the village and a copy of the statement of expenses for the professional
services rendered.
      (2)   No application for approval for which an escrow fee is requested
will be processed until the escrow fee is deposited with the Village Clerk. The
amount of the escrow fee shall be established based on an estimate of the cost
of the services to be rendered by the professionals contacted by the Zoning
Administrator. The applicant is entitled to a refund of any unused escrow fees
at the time a permit is either issued or denied in response to the applicant’s
request.
      (3)   If actual professional review costs exceed the amount of an escrow,
the applicant shall pay the balance due prior to receipt of any land use or
other permit issued by the village in response to the applicants request.
      (4)   Disputes on the costs of professional reviews may be resolved by an
arbitrator satisfactory to both parties.
(Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 153.100 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent of parking provisions. It is the intent of this chapter that
off-street parking spaces shall be provided and adequately maintained by each
property owner in every zoning district for the use of occupants, employees,
and patrons of each building and premise constructed, altered, or enlarged
after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Definition. The term FLOOR AREA, as applied to offices, merchandising,
or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to
be used for services to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, or
tenants, including those areas occupied for fixtures and equipment used for
display or sale of merchandise, but excluding floor areas which are used
exclusively for storage, for housing of mechanical equipment integral with the
building, for maintenance facilities, or for those areas where customers,
patients, clients, salespeople, and the general public are denied access. FLOOR
AREA shall be measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or from the
center line of walls separating two buildings.
   (C)   Fractional spaces. When units of measurement determining the number of
required parking spaces result in a fractional space, the number of spaces
required shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   (D)   Waiver of parking requirements. The Planning Commission may modify or
waive all or a portion of the requirements of this chapter based on the
specific needs of the site, provided that negative impacts on neighboring
properties are minimal.
   (E)   Requirements for a use not mentioned. In the case of a use not
specifically mentioned, the requirements of off-street parking facilities for a
use which is mentioned and which the Planning Commission determines is most
similar to the use not listed shall apply.
   (F)   Use of parking areas. No commercial repair work, servicing, or selling
of any kind shall be conducted on any parking area. Required parking space
shall be used only for the parking of vehicles used to service the
establishment to which it is accessory and by its patrons.
      (1)   No charge shall be made for customers, employees, or other visitors
utilizing the parking facilities.
      (2)   No advertising sign shall be erected on required parking areas
except that not more than one directional sign at each point of ingress or
egress may be erected which may also bear the name of the enterprise the lot is
intended to serve. The signs shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and shall
not project beyond the property line of the premises.
   (G)   Building additions or other increases in floor area. Additional
parking shall be provided and maintained in proper ratio to any increased floor
area or building use capacity.
   (H)   Joint use of parking areas. The joint use of parking facilities by two
or more uses is recommended and may be granted by the Planning Commission
whenever the use is practical and satisfactory to each of the uses intended to
be served and when all requirements for location, design, and construction can
be satisfied.
      (1)   Computing capacities. In computing capacities of any joint use, the
total space requirement is the sum of the individual requirements that will
occur at the same time. If space requirements for individual uses occur at
distinctly different times, the total of the off-street parking facilities
required for joint or collective use may be reduced below the sum total of the
individual space requirements at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Record of agreement. A copy of an agreement between joint users
shall be filed with the application for a building permit and recorded with the
County Register of Deeds. The agreement shall include a guarantee for continued
use of the parking facility for each party to the joint use.
   (I)   Parking space requirements. The number of required off-street parking
spaces in all districts for every residential, recreational, institutional,
cultural, business, and industrial use shall be provided in accordance with the
following minimum requirements. The maximum number of parking spaces permitted
shall be 1.5 times the minimum.
      (1)   Two-family dwellings - two spaces for each family.
      (2)   Multiple-dwellings unit - 1.5 spaces for each dwelling.
      (3)   Boarding and lodging houses, fraternities, private clubs - one
space for each bedroom.
      (4)   Hotels/motels - one space for each guest room plus one space for
each employee.
      (5)   Convalescent home, convents, or similar use - one space for each
four beds plus one space for each employee in the largest shift.
      (6)   Hospitals, sanitariums, patient beds - one space for every three
beds plus one space for each employee in the largest shift.
      (7)   Clinics - four spaces for each doctor plus one space for each other
employee.
      (8)   Auditoriums (incidental to schools), churches, theaters, buildings
of similar use with fixed seats - one space for every two seats plus one space
for each employee in the largest shift.
      (9)   Auditoriums (other than incidental to schools), lodge halls,
meeting halls, community centers, or buildings of similar use without fixed
seats - one space for every four persons of legal capacity.
      (10)   Elementary and junior high schools - one space for every employee,
including administrators and teachers.
      (11)   High schools and colleges - one space for every employee,
including administrators and teachers, plus one space for every five students.
      (12)   Libraries, museums, and post offices - two spaces for every 500
square feet of floor area plus one space for every employee in the largest
shift.
      (13)   Private golf clubs, swimming pool clubs, tennis clubs, or other
similar uses - one space for every two people in the maximum capacity.
      (14)   Golf courses open to the general public except miniature or par
three courses - four spaces for each one golf hole plus one space for each
employee in the largest shift.
      (15)   Stadiums and sports arenas - one space for every two seats.
      (16)   Dance halls, pool and billiard rooms, exhibition halls, roller
rinks - one space for each 100 square feet of floor area.
      (17)   Bowling alleys - three spaces for each alley plus one space for
every employee in the largest shift.
      (18)   Miniature or par three golf courses - three spaces for each one
golf hole plus one space for each employee in the largest shift.
      (19)   Professional offices and banks - one space for every 200 square
feet of floor area.
      (20)   General offices - one space for every 200 square feet of floor
area.
      (21)   Clothing, furniture, appliance, hardware, automobile, machinery
sales, shoe repair, personal services (other than beauty and barber shops),
wholesale sales - one space for every 200 square feet of floor area.
      (22)   Barber shops and beauty parlors - two spaces for each beauty and/
or barber shop chair.
      (23)   Supermarkets, self-service food store - one space for every 100
square feet of floor area.
      (24)   Restaurants, cafeterias, taverns, bars - one space for every 75
square feet of floor area plus one space for every three seats.
      (25)   Automobile service and repair garages, gasoline filling, and
service stations - 1.5 spaces for each repair and service stall plus one space
for each employee in the largest shift.
      (26)   Drive-in restaurants - one space for every order station, plus one
non-order station space for every employee in the largest shift.
      (27)   Drive-in, restaurants and other drive-in businesses - stacking
space for five cars between the sidewalk area and the service window, plus one
space for every 75 square feet plus one space for every three seats.
      (28)   Retail stores, except as otherwise specified herein - one space
for every 150 square feet of floor area.
      (29)   Funeral homes and mortuaries - one parking space for every 50
square feet of floor area in slumber rooms, chapels, and assembly rooms.
      (30)   Warehouses, wholesale stores - one space for every 800 square feet
of floor area, plus one space for every employee in the largest shift.
      (31)   Industrial or manufacturing establishments, including research and
testing laboratories, creameries, bottling works, printing and engraving shops
- one space for every employee in the largest shift or one space for every 800
square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater.
   (J)   Location of parking areas. Required parking shall be provided on the
premises or within 1,000 feet measured from the nearest point of the parking
area to the nearest point of the building.
   (K)   Site plan review. Whenever four or more vehicles are required for a
given use under the requirements of this section, plans and specifications for
the construction or alteration of an off-street parking area shall be submitted
to the Zoning Administrator before a building permit can be issued. The plans
and specifications should show the location, basis of capacity calculation,
size, site design, surfacing, marking, lighting, drainage, curb cuts,
entrances, exits and any other detailed feature essential to the complete
design and construction of the parking area.
   (L)   Site development requirements. All off-street parking areas shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following
standards and requirements.
      (1)   A minimum area of 180 square feet shall be provided for each
vehicle parking space, each space shall be definitely designated and reserved
for parking purposes exclusive of space requirements for adequate ingress and
egress. Each space shall have a minimum width of nine feet and a minimum length
of 20 feet.
      (2)   Parking areas shall be so designed and marked as to provide for
orderly and safe movement and storage of vehicles.
      (3)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking area by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided.
         (a)   Except for parking space provided on single-family and two-
family residential lots, drives for ingress and egress to the parking area
shall be not less than 20 feet wide and so located as to secure the most
appropriate development of the individual property.
         (b)   Each entrance to and exit from any off-street parking area shall
be at least 25 feet from any adjacent lot within a residential district and at
least 50 feet from any intersection.
      (4)   Each vehicle parking space within an off-street parking area shall
be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering lanes. Backing directly
onto a street shall be prohibited. The width of required maneuvering lanes may
vary depending upon the proposed parking pattern, as follows.
         (a)   For right-angle parking patterns 75 to 90 degrees, the
maneuvering lane width shall be 20 feet.
         (b)   For parking patterns 54 to 74 degrees, the maneuvering lane
width shall be 15 feet.
         (c)   For parking patterns 30 to 53 degrees, the maneuvering lane
width shall be 12 feet.
         (d)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic
movement, except for the 90-degree pattern which may provide for two-way
traffic movement.
      (5)   Parking areas with a capacity of four or more vehicles shall be
surfaced with a material that shall provide a durable, smooth, and dustless
surface, and shall be graded and provided with adequate drainage facilities to
dispose of all collected surface water.
      (6)   Except for single-family and two-family residential lots, adequate
lighting shall be provided throughout the hours when the parking area is in
operation. The lighting shall not exceed an intensity of five foot-candles, nor
shall it be less than one and one-half foot-candles. All lighting shall be so
arranged so as to reflect light away from any residential property adjacent and
any adjacent road or street so the light will not interfere with traffic.
      (7)   Where a parking area with a capacity of four or more vehicles abuts
a residential district or public right-of-way in a residential district, a
buffer strip at least ten feet wide shall be provided between the parking area
and the adjoining property and a vertical screen shall be erected consisting of
structural or plant materials no less than four feet in height and spaced so as
to effectively screen the parking area from the residential area.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 163, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 225, passed 7-9-
2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 810-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.101 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. In order to prevent undue interference with public
use of streets and alleys every manufacturing, storage, warehouse, department
store, wholesale store, retail store, hotel, hospital, laundry, dairy,
mortuary, and other uses similarly and customarily receiving or distributing
goods by motor vehicle shall provide space on the premises for that number of
vehicles that will be at the premises at the same time on an average day of
full use.
   (B)   Additional to parking space. Loading space required under this section
shall be provided as area additional to off-street parking space as required
under §
153.100 and shall not be considered as supplying off-street parking space.
   (C)   Space requirements. There shall be provided adequate space for
standing, loading, and unloading services not less than 12 feet in width, 25
feet in length, and 14 feet in height, open or enclosed, for all uses indicated
in division (A) of this section, for uses listed in the following table, or for
similar uses similarly involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of
materials or merchandise.
Loading Spaces
Floor Area Number of Spaces
Loading Spaces
Floor Area                                              Number of Spaces
Commercial/Retail/Office
Each 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof             1 space
Hotels
Each 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof             1 space
Wholesale and Storage
First 2,000 square feet                                 None
Next 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof             1 space
Each additional 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1 space
Manufacturing
Each 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof             1 space
Funeral Homes
First 5,000 square feet or fraction thereof             1 space
Each additional 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof  1 space
Hospitals/Medical Clinics
First 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof            None
Next 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof            1 space
Each additional 200,000 square feet or fraction thereof 1 space
Schools/Churches
For each building                                       1 space
Other Uses
For each building over 5,000 square feet                1 space
 
   (D)   Access. Access to a truck standing, loading and unloading space shall
be provided from a public street or alley and the space shall be so arranged to
provide sufficient off-street maneuvering space as well as adequate ingress and
egress to and from a street or alley.
   (E)   Site requirements. Off-street loading spaces and access drives shall
be paved, drained, lighted, and shall have appropriate bumper or wheel guards
where needed. Any light used for illumination shall be so arranged as to
reflect the light away from adjoining premises and streets. Where off-street
loading space adjoins or abuts a lot or premises used for residential,
educational, recreational, or religious purposes, or abuts a residential
district, there shall be provided a masonry wall or solid fence not less than
six feet in height between the off-street loading space and the uses.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 225, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-
2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT
§ 153.115 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. Rather than permitting all of the many and varied
land use activities within individual and limited zoning districts, it is the
intent of this chapter to provide a set of procedures and standards for
specific uses of land or structures that will allow, on one hand, practical
latitude for the investor or developer, but that will, at the same time,
maintain sound provisions for the protection of the health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare of village inhabitants. In order to provide
controllable and reasonable flexibility, this subchapter permits detailed
review of certain specified types of land use activities which, because of
their particular and unique characteristics, require special consideration in
relation to the welfare of adjacent properties and to the community as a whole.
Land and structure uses possessing these characteristics may be authorized
within certain zone districts by the issuance of a special use permit. By such
a procedure, the Planning Commission has the opportunity to impose conditions
and safeguards upon each use which is deemed necessary for the protection of
the public welfare. The following sections, together with previous references
in other subchapters, designate specific uses that require a special use permit
and, in addition, specify the procedures and standards which must be met before
such a permit can be issued.
   (B)   Permit procedures. An application for a special use permit for any
land or structure use permitted under this subchapter shall be submitted and
processed under the following procedures.
      (1)   Submission of application. Any application shall be submitted
through the Village Clerk on a special form for that purpose. Each application
shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee as established by the Village
Council to cover costs of processing the application. No part of any fee shall
be refundable.
      (2)   Data required. Every application shall be accompanied by the
following information and
data:
         (a)   The special form supplied by the Village Clerk, filled out in
full by the applicant, including a statement of supporting evidence concerning
the required findings specified in division (3) below; and
         (b)   A site plan that conforms with the requirements of §
153.087.
      (3)   Planning Commission review and hearing. The application, along with
all required data, shall be transmitted to the Planning Commission for review.
The Planning Commission may appoint a special committee to review the
application and make recommendations relative thereto. After review, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing upon every application after at
least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall indicate the
place, time, and purpose of the hearing.
      (4)   Planning Commission approval or disapproval. Following the public
hearing provided for above, the Planning Commission shall consider the special
use permit application. This may occur at the same meeting. The Planning
Commission thereupon shall approve or disapprove the application or refer the
application elsewhere for further study. No special use permit shall be issued
by the Village Clerk unless the same shall have been approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (5)   Permit expiration. A special use permit issued under this section
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of the issuance of the
permit. If construction has not commenced and proceeded meaningfully toward
completion by the end of this one-year period, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing of the expiration or the revocation of the
permit.
      (6)   Revocation. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to
revoke any special use permit after it has been proved that the holder of the
permit has failed to comply with any of the applicable requirements in this
subchapter. After a revocation notice has been given, the use for which the
permit was granted must cease within 60 days.
      (7)   Reapplication. No application for a special use permit which has
been denied wholly or in part by the Planning Commission shall be resubmitted
until the expiration of one year or more from the date of the denial, except on
the grounds of newly-discovered evidence or proof of changed conditions.
   (C)   Basis for determinations. Before making a recommendation on a special
use permit application, the Planning Commission shall establish beyond a
reasonable doubt that the following general standards, as well as the specific
standards outlined in each applicable section of this subchapter, shall be
satisfied.
      (1)   General standards. The Planning Commission shall review each
application for the purpose of determining that each proposed use meets the
following standards and, in addition, shall find adequate evidence that each
use on its proposed location will:
         (a)   Be harmonious with and in accordance with the general principles
and proposals of the Future Land Use Plan of the village.
         (b)   Be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such a use will not change the
essential character of the area in which it is proposed.
         (c)   Not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future uses in the
same general vicinity and will be a substantial improvement to property in the
immediate vicinity and to the community as a whole.
         (d)   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services, such as highways, streets, police, fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewage facilities and schools.
         (e)   Not involve uses, activities, processes, materials and equipment
or conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any person, property or
general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, or odors.
         (f)   Be consistent with the intent and purposes of the zoning
district in which it is proposed to locate the use.
         (g)   Will not involve uses which will adversely and substantially
impact the economic viability of the Central Business District as a whole and
individual uses and business both present and future located therein.
      (2)   Conditions and safeguards. The Planning Commission may impose the
additional conditions and safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare,
for the protection of individual property rights, and for insuring that the
intent and objectives of this chapter will be observed. The breach of any
condition, safeguard, or requirement shall automatically invalidate the permit
granted.
      (3)   Specific requirements. The general standards and requirements of
this section are basic to all uses authorized by special use permit. The
specific and detailed requirements set forth in the following sections relate
to particular uses and are requirements which must be met by those uses in
addition to the foregoing general standards and requirements where applicable.
(Ord. 103, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 163, passed 6-4-
2001; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.116 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization. The intent of planned unit developments is to allow
flexibility in zoning approvals, in order to ensure high-quality development.
Under a planned unit development, the village may waive any zoning provision,
but, in exchange, may require improvements above and beyond the zoning
requirements. A planned unit development agreement shall be agreed upon by the
applicant and the village, and shall become the governing zoning document for
the lot(s) in question. Planned unit developments may be approved in any zoning
district.
   (B)   Objectives. The following objectives shall be considered in reviewing
any application for a planned unit development:
      (1)   To provide a more desirable living environment by preserving the
natural character of open fields, stands of trees, brooks, ponds, floodplains,
hills, and similar natural assets.
      (2)   To encourage the provision of open space and the development of
recreational facilities within new development.
      (3)   To encourage developers to use a more creative and imaginative
approach in the design of new development.
      (4)   To provide for more efficient and aesthetic use of open areas by
allowing the developer to reduce development costs through the bypassing of
natural obstacles.
      (5)   To encourage variety in the physical development pattern of the
village by providing a mixture of building types.
   (C)   Qualifying conditions. Any application for a planned unit development
shall meet the following conditions to qualify for consideration as a planned
unit development.
      (1)   The planned unit development site shall be under the control of one
owner or group of owners, and shall be capable of being planned and developed
as one integral unit.
      (2)   Public water and sewer facilities shall be available or shall be
provided as part of the site development.
      (3)   The proposed planned unit development shall meet the standards for
the approval of special land uses in §
153.115(C)(1).
   (D)   Uses that may be permitted. Any use may be permitted in a planned unit
development. The permitted uses within the PUD shall be explicitly stated in
the PUD agreement. The village retains the right to deny a planned unit
development based on a finding that the proposed uses are inappropriate with
the surroundings. The village may also require that some uses be removed from a
mixed-use PUD prior to approval.
   (E)   Approval procedure. The procedure for approving planned unit
developments shall be as follows:
      (1)   Preliminary staff review meeting. The Zoning Administrator, Village
Planner, and Village Engineer, and other village officials as necessary shall
meet with the applicant for PUD approval and shall develop a mutually agreeable
draft PUD agreement. The draft PUD agreement shall include a site plan meeting
the requirements of §
153.087.
      (2)   Planning Commission review and hearing. The site plan and draft PUD
agreement, along with all required information, shall be transmitted to the
Planning Commission for review. The Planning Commission may appoint a special
committee to review the application and make recommendations relative thereto.
After review, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing after at
least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall indicate the
place, time, and purpose of the hearing.
      (3)   Planning Commission recommendation. Following the public hearing
provided for above, the Planning Commission shall consider the PUD application.
This may take place at the same meeting as the public hearing. The Planning
Commission thereupon shall recommend approval or denial of the application to
the Village Council or refer the application elsewhere for further study.
      (4)   Village Council approval or denial. Following the Planning
Commission action provided for above, the Village Council shall consider the
PUD application at its next regular meeting. The Village Council thereupon
shall approve or disapprove the application. No PUD approval shall be issued by
the Village Clerk unless the same shall have been approved by the Village
Council.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.117 INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Site location principles. The following principles shall be utilized
to evaluate the proposed location of any institutional use in any zoning
district where the use is permitted by right or by special use. These
principles are alterable, depending upon the specific conditions of each
situation, but they shall be applied by the Planning Commission as general
guidelines to help assess the impact of an institutional use upon the district
in which the use is proposed to be located.
      (1)   Any institutional structure or use in a residential district
should, preferably, be located at the edge of the district, abutting either a
business or industrial district or adjacent to a public open space.
      (2)   Motor vehicle entrance should be made on a major thoroughfare or as
immediately accessible from a major thoroughfare as to avoid the impact of
traffic generated by the institutional use upon a residential area.
      (3)   Site locations should be preferred that offer natural or manmade
barriers that would lessen the effect of the intrusion of the institutional use
into a residential area.
   (B)   Site development requirements. The following standards shall apply to
the uses listed below:
      (1)   Hospitals.
         (a)   The proposed site shall be at least ten acres in area.
         (b)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting
a major thoroughfare. All ingress and egress to the off-street parking area
(for guests, employees, and staff) shall be directly from the major
thoroughfare.
         (c)   No more than 25% of the gross site shall be covered by
buildings.
         (d)   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all
residential view by a solid masonry wall six feet in height. Access to and from
the delivery and ambulance area shall be directly from a major thoroughfare.
         (e)   All signs shall be in accordance with the schedule outlined in §
153.083.
         (f)   Off-street parking space shall be provided in accordance with
the schedule outlined in §
153.100, and off-street loading in conformance with §
153.101.
      (2)   Churches.
         (a)   The proposed site shall be at least one acre in size plus one-
half acre per 100 seats in the main auditorium.
         (b)   The proposed site shall be so located as to have at least one
property line on a major or secondary thoroughfare. All ingress and egress to
the site shall be directly onto the thoroughfares or a marginal access service
drive thereof.
         (c)   All signs shall be in accordance with the schedule outlined in §
153.083.
         (d)   Off-street parking space shall be provided in accordance with
the schedule outlined in §
153.100.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.118 PRIVATE NON-COMMERCIAL RECREATION AREAS.
   (A)   Authorization. As urban development utilizes more and more land area
within the village, there is created an increasing need and demand for
recreational facilities to serve a concentration of urban dwellings. In order
to accommodate the demand, and to encourage private development of recreational
facilities within close proximity to the residences they serve, this section
permits the construction of certain types of nonprofit, noncommercial
recreation facilities within residential districts. These uses may be
authorized by the issuance of a special use permit when all of the procedures
and applicable requirements stated in §
153.115 and the additional requirements of this section can be complied with.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Private community swimming pools,
community recreation centers, tennis courts, and other noncommercial recreation
facilities may be authorized, provided the facilities are to be constructed,
maintained, and operated by an incorporated, nonprofit club or organization
with a specified limitation of members and, provided further, that the
recreation facilities shall be operated for the exclusive use of organization
members and their guests. Any use permitted herein shall not be permitted on a
lot or group of lots of record.
   (C)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. One acre with a minimum width of 150 feet.
      (2)   Site location. In those instances where the proposed site is
intended to serve club or organization members who reside beyond the immediate
neighborhood or subdivision in which the proposed site is located, the site
shall be located on a major thoroughfare and all ingress and egress for the
site shall be provided directly from the major thoroughfare.
      (3)   Yards. Front, side, and rear yards shall be at least 30 feet,
except on those sides adjacent to nonresidential districts wherein it shall be
ten feet. All yards shall be appropriately landscaped in trees, shrubs, and
grass. No structures or parking areas shall be permitted in the yards, except
for required entrance drives and those walls and/or fences used to obscure the
use from abutting residential districts.
      (4)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in
conformance with the schedule outlined in §
153.100. Prior to the issuance of a special use permit for any use permitted in
this section, a certified copy of the bylaws of the nonprofit organization
shall be filed with the Planning Commission in order to establish the
membership involved for computing the off-street parking requirements.
      (5)   Swimming pool. Whenever an unenclosed swimming pool is constructed
under this section, the pool shall be provided with a protective fence six feet
in height and entry shall be provided by means of a controlled gate.
      (6)   Lighting. No lighting shall have a visible source of illumination
unless the lighting is necessary to carry on particular recreation pursuits.
All lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so arranged as to
direct the light away from all residential lands which adjoin the site.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.119 STATE-LICENSED DAY CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Authorization. In order to facilitate the care of preschool children
within a desirable home environment, this section provides standards for
nursery schools and child care centers. These standards shall apply to all
state-licensed day care facilities, regardless of whether special use approval
is required in the applicable zoning district or not.
   (B)   Site development requirements. The following requirement for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. Nine thousand square feet with 75-foot lot
width, provided that no more than four children shall be kept on the premises
in addition to the children of the foster family. For each child not a member
of the family in excess of four, there shall be provided 200 square feet of lot
area in addition to the base figure of 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Off-street parking. Shall be provided in conformance with §
153.100.
      (3)   Signs. As provided in §
153.083.
      (4)   Play areas. There shall be provided on the site a usable outdoor
play area at the rate of 75 square feet for each child not a member of the
family, exclusive of required front yard, required side yard along a street,
and of driveways and parking areas. The play area shall be fenced for safety
and shall be screened from any adjoining residential land by suitable plant
material.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.120 FUNERAL HOMES AND MORTUARIES.
   (A)   Authorization. Because funeral homes and mortuaries perform special
and necessary services to urban populations, and in recognition of the unique
locational and site development characteristics of these functions, the
following standards apply:
   (B)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. One acre site with a minimum width of 150 feet.
      (2)   Site location. The proposed site shall front upon a major
thoroughfare. All ingress and egress points to the site shall be directly from
the thoroughfare.
      (3)   Appearance. All buildings shall be harmonious in appearance with
the surrounding area and shall be similar in design and appearance to any other
buildings within the immediate vicinity of the proposed site.
      (4)   Signs. As provided in §
153.083.
      (5)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in
conformance with the schedule outlined in §
153.100. Adequate off-street assembly area for vehicles used in funeral
processions shall be provided in addition to any required off-street parking
area.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.121 MOBILE HOME PARK DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization. The relatively transient and nonpermanent housing
characteristics of the modern mobile home require carefully planned site
facilities which are designed for the unique group living needs of the mobile
home dweller. Mobile home or trailer park developments have been provided in
many urban areas in response to this need. Mobile home park developments have
special characteristics which require full consideration of their locational
needs, their site layout and design, their demand upon community services, and
their relationship to and effect upon surrounding uses of land. All of the
procedures and applicable requirements stated in §
153.115 and the additional requirements of this section shall be complied with.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Any mobile home development may include
any or all of the following uses, provided that a plan of the proposed
development is approved by the state in accordance with M.C.L.A. 125.2301 et
seq., as amended, and provided further that the development plan can meet the
standards of this section:
      (1)   Mobile homes, trailers, trailer coaches, or similar vehicles
designed for occupancy as a dwelling as defined in §
153.003.
      (2)   Accessory buildings required for normal operation of the mobile
home development. The uses as stores, mechanical dispensers, equipment storage,
coin-operated laundry and dry cleaning facilities may be permitted, provided
that the uses:
         (a)   Shall not occupy more than 10% of total site.
         (b)   Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the
park.
         (c)   Shall be located, designed, and intended to serve the trade or
service needs of persons residing in the park.
         (d)   One permanent building for conducting the operation and
maintenance of mobile home park developments. A caretaker's residence may be
provided within or in addition to the permanent building.
         (e)   The following signs pertaining exclusively to the mobile home
park are permitted.
            1.   One freestanding, illuminated (but not flashing or moving)
sign may be located near one entrance on each street upon which the mobile home
park fronts according to the following.
               a.   On major roads as designated by the Planning Commission,
the sign shall not be larger than 25 square feet in size.
               b.   On all other streets the maximum permitted size shall be 12
square feet.
            2.   Signs shall not exceed ten feet in height.
            3.   Signs shall be located so as not to obstruct visibility of
pedestrians or motorists, within or without the mobile home park.
            4.   Signs purely for traffic regulation and direction within the
mobile home park may be utilized as required.
         (f)   The off-street parking requirements shall be accomplished by
providing group parking facilities within 300 feet of all mobile home lots they
are intended to serve and may be of a bay-type design. All parking areas shall
be of paved material, subject to the approval of the Village Street Commission.
No parking shall be permitted on any street or access lane. Additional parking,
equal to one space for four mobile homes, shall be provided for overflow
visitor parking, storage of park equipment and any tenant vehicles, boats, or
mobile homes temporarily out of service. No visitor vehicles shall be permitted
to be parked or stored within any required open space between mobile homes or
any drive or street within the mobile home park.
   (C)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of the state,
M.C.L.A. 125.2301 et seq., as amended, shall be complied with. A complete copy
of the plans and specifications filed as required under M.C.L.A. 125.2301 et
seq., as amended, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator at the time of
application for a special use permit. If any of the requirements of this
chapter are less than those in the state act, the state requirements shall
prevail. No mobile home park shall be maintained, operated or conducted without
an annual license from the State Department of Health. The County Health
Department and/or the Village Zoning Administrator may make an inspection of
construction at any appropriate time to determine compliance to approved plans
and specifications and any test data, records, or other information necessary
for the determination shall be provided by the park owner.
      (1)   Site size. A 20-acre site accessible to a major thoroughfare shall
be the minimum site size. A maximum mobile home site size shall be based on the
allowable maximum of 150 mobile home site spaces plus other applicable mobile
home park space requirements.
      (2)   Site location. The proposed site shall be accessible to a major
thoroughfare. All ingress and egress to the site shall be provided from the
thoroughfare. The major road shall be paved and of sufficient design capacity
as required by the Village Street Commission to safely and effectively handle
any increased traffic which has or will be generated by the mobile home park.
If the major road does not meet the required standards of the Village Street
Commission, the developer of the mobile home park shall pay the costs of the
necessary improvements before a special use permit is granted.
      (3)   Site yard dimensions. All buildings and mobile homes within the
mobile home park site shall be no closer than 50 feet from any public street
line and no closer than 50 feet from any side or rear property line of the
mobile home park site. The setback space shall be occupied by plant materials
and appropriately landscaped.
      (4)   Site screening. An obscuring structural fence or wall at least four
feet but not more than six feet in height shall be erected and used in
combination with plant material to effectively screen the mobile home park site
from surrounding uses. The plans and specifications for the mobile home park
development shall include the proposed arrangements of the plantings and/or
screening structures which shall be subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission.
      (5)   Site access. All developments shall be provided with at least two
points of entrance or exit from the mobile home park and the ingress and egress
shall be paved to a minimum width of 36 feet. The entrance or exit drives or
roadways shall be located no closer than 200 feet from the intersection of any
two public roads.
      (6)   Space requirements. The minimum lot area or premises used or
occupied by each mobile home shall be 4,500 square feet, exclusive of park
drives, parking area, service facilities, and required recreation areas and the
lot shall not be less than 45 feet in width.
      (7)   Yard requirements. There shall be a minimum side yard of 20 feet at
any entry side of a mobile home and a minimum side yard of 12 feet at the non-
entry side and 15 feet for corner lots. There shall be a minimum of ten feet
between the ends of the mobile home and the rear lot lines. Expandable rooms,
enclosed patios, or other structural appurtenances shall be included in
determining the mobile home stand or concrete apron area. Patios and individual
storage facilities shall be disregarded when determining yard widths. The edge
of any internal paved street shall be deemed a site boundary line.
      (8)   Setback. No mobile home shall be located closer than 15 feet to any
private street or roadway, nor shall it be located closer than 50 feet to any
public right-of-way, or closer than 50 feet to any park boundary line.
      (9)   Park roads. Each mobile home lot or premises shall have access to a
park driveway, roadway, or street which shall be paved to a minimum width of 24
feet and have a cross-section as approved by the Village Street Commission,
provided that no parking shall be permitted on the roadway. No park shall
provide or have direct access through any recorded single-family subdivision.
The required paving width for the streets, roadways, or driveways may be
adjusted if a one-way street pattern is proposed as part of the proposed site
development. The one-way street shall be paved to a minimum width of 20 feet,
provided no parking shall be permitted on the roadway.
      (10)   Walks and curbs. A 30-inch wide concrete walk shall be provided
from the entrance of each mobile home to common walks. Common walks shall be
four feet in width and shall provide access to all required service facilities
within the mobile home park. Curbing shall also be provided and may be in the
form of a one-piece curb, gutter, and sidewalk installation, where applicable.
      (11)   Mobile home lot improvements. A mobile home shall not be permitted
to occupy single or multiple sites if either its length or width would cause it
to occupy any minimum yard area or minimum distance as prescribed herein.
         (a)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a minimum stand
consisting of a solid concrete apron ten feet wide by 50 feet long. The
concrete apron shall be constructed of reinforced concrete to a depth of four
inches and shall be at least equal in area and dimension of the mobile home
occupying the site.
         (b)   An outdoor patio area of not less than 180 square feet shall be
provided at each mobile home site, conveniently located to the entrance of the
mobile home and appropriately related to open areas of the lot and other
facilities, for the purpose of providing suitable outdoor living space to
supplement the limited interior spaces of a mobile home.
         (c)   Each mobile home shall be supported on jacks or blocks uniformly
throughout the mobile home park.
         (d)   Skirting shall be provided by the park or by the tenants
uniformly throughout the park. The skirting will be of no less than 26-gauge
metal and attachable to the concrete apron so as to prevent entrance of rodents
and insects. One access door shall be permitted and screen vents shall be
installed to permit cross ventilation.
         (e)   Tie-down facilities will also be incorporated into the concrete
apron so that guy lines shall be installed under the mobile home at sufficient
intervals to prevent upheaval of mobile homes during severe winds and storms.
      (12)   Building height. No building or structure shall exceed 15 feet in
height, except that the one permanent building for conducting the business
operation and for recreation center shall not exceed one and one-half stories
or 20 feet in height. One central TV tower to service the mobile home park may
also exceed this height restriction.
      (13)   Lighting. No spot or flood lights shall be used for lighting or
advertising purposes. No other lighting for identification or advertising
purposes shall have a visible source of illumination. No lighting shall shine
on adjacent properties. All other lighting shall be in accordance with M.C.L.A.
125.2301 et seq., as amended.
      (14)   Play areas. Exclusive of other yard and open space requirements of
this section, there shall be provided a usable outdoor play area at the rate of
75 square feet for each mobile home space in the mobile home park. The open
space shall contain a minimum area of 12,000 square feet and should be
developed and maintained by the management to provide for recreation for the
children of the mobile home park.
      (15)   Fuel tanks. All fuel oil and all gas tanks shall be provided by
the park and furnished to each site underground only. All tanks shall be of an
approved type to comply with building code standards and shall be equipped with
vent pipes and with fused valves.
      (16)   Plumbing, water supply, and sewerage disposal.
         (a)   Plumbing fixtures shall be connected to a public sanitary sewer
or approved sewerage disposal system and shall meet the requirements of the
County Health Department and the State Plumbing Code.
         (b)   The plumbing connections to each mobile home site shall be
constructed so that all lines are protected from freezing, accidental damage,
or from creating any type of nuisance or health hazard. If unsafe health
conditions are present in either the water or sanitary sewer or disposal
system, the special use permit will automatically be terminated upon the
recommendation of the County Health Department.
         (c)   Running water from a public or state tested and approved water
supply shall be piped to each mobile home and shall be adequately protected
from frost. Municipal water shall be utilized if available and accessible.
      (17)   Tenant storage.
         (a)   Unless provided in current mobile home models, storage
facilities shall be provided on the lot, or in compounds located within
reasonable distance, generally not more than 100 feet from each stand. Storage
cabinets shall provide a minimum of 90 cubic feet and shall not exceed 35
square feet in floor measurement.
         (b)   Storage facilities shall be designed in a manner that will
enhance the appearance of the park and shall be constructed of suitable weather
resistant materials appropriate under the use and maintenance contemplated.
         (c)   Storage of goods and articles underneath any mobile home or out
of doors at any mobile home site shall be prohibited.
      (18)   Recreation areas. Exclusive of other yard and open space
requirements of this section, common usable recreation space of at least 100
square feet per mobile home site in the park with a minimum area of 8,000
square feet, shall be developed and maintained by the management. The area or
areas shall not be less than 100 feet in its smallest dimension and no further
than 500 feet from any mobile home site served. An indoor area or recreation
center shall be provided for inside recreation activities.
      (19)   Fire regulations. The mobile home park shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal.
      (20)   Television antennas. Every mobile home park shall construct a
central television antenna with service to each mobile home site provided by
underground wiring. Individual antennas on mobile homes shall be prohibited.
      (21)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be provided and so spaced that
no mobile home site is further than 400 feet from the hydrant.
      (22)   Electricity, lighting, telephones, oil, and gas. All wiring for
electricity, lighting, and telephone connections shall be placed underground,
as shall gas and oil lines. Street and yard lights shall be so placed and
sufficient in number to permit the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at
night.
      (23)   Refuse and garbage. All refuse and garbage shall be collected at
least once weekly. Where public service is not available, the service shall be
provided by the park. Central refuse incinerators may be permitted, subject to
the review of the Zoning Administrator.
      (24)   Storm shelter. In addition to aforementioned accessory uses, there
shall be provided an area within an enclosed structure, below grade, to be used
as a fallout, storm or tornado shelter, and of sufficient size to accommodate
the entire resident population of the park. The facility may or may not be in
conjunction with the recreation building or mobile home park office building.
      (25)   Mobile home sales. The sale of mobile homes shall be permitted by
individual owners. This shall not be construed, however, to allow the general
sales of mobile homes as a dealership or franchise.
      (26)   Occupancy. No permit for occupying any completed mobile dwelling
unit site shall be granted until all basic elements such as utilities, parking,
access, drives, walkways, and all appurtenances such as landscaping, recreation
areas, and swimming pools indicated on the approved plan have been inspected
and approved or a performance bond equal to the estimated cost of these items
has been posted. Further, no mobile dwelling unit shall occupy any site until
at least 50% of the sites are prepared and approved for use.
   (D)   Planned mobile home unit developments. It is the purpose of this
section to allow for an entirely new concept of mobile home development. Under
the provisions of this chapter, mobile home parks may be so designed to allow
for a cluster type of mobile home grouping with the clusters separated from
each other by common open space and housing units developed with related
recreational space such as golf courses, swimming pools, private parks,
community centers, and other recreational facilities. It is also the intent of
this section to allow the developer to use a more creative and imaginative
design for mobile home parks, to preserve unusual natural features of the site,
and to utilize excess or generally unusable land to bypass unusual natural
obstacles, thereby reducing overall development costs of the project. All
provisions of this section shall prevail, except as provided herein.
      (1)   Parks designed to provide a cluster type arrangement may reduce the
lot size abutting on common open space by 10%, provided the reduced area be
equally dedicated as common open space.
      (2)   The portion of the lot to be reduced shall be the rear yard, which
may be reduced to two feet. The front and side yard setbacks shall remain
uniform throughout the development.
   (E)   Campgrounds. Campgrounds for the accommodation only of travel
trailers, self-propelled homes, or vehicles designed primarily for living or
sleeping or used to carry units so designed with or without tents or tent
trailers and operated on a seasonal basis between May 1 and December 1. The
campground shall be subject to the requirements of the State Department of
Health.
      (1)   No campground shall be located except with direct access to a
county, state, or federal highway, with a minimum lot width of not less than 50
feet for the portion used for entrance and exit. No entrance or exit shall be
through a residential district or shall require movement of traffic from the
campground through a residential district.
      (2)   The minimum lot area per campground shall be three acres, with a
maximum of 20 acres.
      (3)   Spaces in campgrounds may be used by travel trailers provided they
meet any additional laws and ordinances of the state and the county and shall
be rented by the day or week only, and an occupant of the space shall remain in
the same campground for a period of not more than 30 days.
      (4)   Management headquarters, recreational facilities, toilets, showers,
laundry facilities, and other uses and structures customarily incidental to the
operation of a campground are permitted as accessory uses in any district in
which campgrounds are allowed, provided that:
         (a)   The establishments and the parking area primarily related to
their operations shall not occupy more than 10% of the area of the campground.
         (b)   The establishments shall be restricted in their use to occupants
of the campground.
         (c)   The establishments shall present no visible evidence of their
commercial character which would attract customers other than occupants of the
campground.
      (5)   No space shall be so located that any part intended for occupancy
for sleeping purposes shall be within 50 feet of the right-of-way line of any
freeway, expressway, or collector street, or within 25 feet of the right-of-way
of any minor street.
      (6)   In addition to meeting the above requirements, the campground site
plan shall be subject to the review and approval of the Mid-Michigan Health
Department.
      (7)   Campgrounds shall be permitted in existing or proposed mobile home
parks, subject to the provisions provided herein.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.122 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS, AUTO REPAIR GARAGES, AND TRUCK STOPS.
   (A)   Authorization. Facilities to serve motor vehicles are of considerable
importance within urbanizing areas where the basic mode of transportation is by
private automobile. To meet the demands of location and space for this type of
retail facility requires careful planning to properly integrate the service
station function into the pattern of other commercial and retail activities
serving the community. Because the integration requires special considerations
relating to location, site layout, storage facilities, traffic safety, and
compatibility with surrounding uses of land, the following standards must be
met.
   (B)   Objectives. It is the intent of this section to exercise a measure of
control over service station buildings and their sites and to establish a basic
set of standards within which individual solutions may be developed to meet the
retail service needs of motor vehicles. The objectives of the regulations set
forth in this section are to:
      (1)   Promote the type of development which will be compatible with other
land use activities located in areas where service stations will be
constructed.
      (2)   Control those aspects of service station design, site layout and
operation which may, unless regulated, be damaging to surrounding uses of land.
      (3)   Minimize the traffic congestion and safety hazards which are
inherent in service station activity.
   (C)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. Fifteen thousand square feet with a minimum
width of 150 feet.
      (2)   Site location. The proposed site shall have at least one property
line on a major or secondary thoroughfare.
      (3)   Canopy setback. A canopy may be installed over gas station pump
islands. The canopy shall be considered an accessory structure, subject to the
standards of §
153.081(B), except that the following shall take precedence over the
requirements of that section:
         (a)   The required setbacks for the canopy shall be half of the
required setbacks for the principal structure in the Zoning District, from all
lot lines.
         (b)   Canopies may be located in the front yard.
      (4)   Access drives. No more than two driveway approaches shall be
permitted directly from any major or secondary thoroughfare, nor more than one
driveway approach from any minor street, each of which shall not exceed 35 feet
in width at the property line.
         (a)   If the service station site fronts on two or more streets, the
driveways shall be located as far from the street intersection as practicable,
but no less than 50 feet.
         (b)   No driveway or curb cut for a driveway shall be located within
ten feet of an adjoining property line, as extended to the curb or pavement, or
within 20 feet of any exterior (corner) lot lines as extended.
         (c)   Any two driveways giving access to a single street should be
separated by an island with a minimum dimension of 20 feet at both the right-
of-way line and the curb or edge of the pavement.
      (5)   Curbing and paving. A raised curb of at least six inches in height
shall be erected along all of the street property lines, except at driveway
approaches. The entire service area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete or asphalt.
      (6)   Signs. As provided in §
153.083, provided that no signs, whether permanent or temporary, shall be
permitted within the public right-of-way.
      (7)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in
conformance with the schedule outlined in §
153.100.
      (8)   Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be so arranged so that it is
deflected away from adjacent properties.
(Ord. 103, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-
2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.123 (RESERVED).
§ 153.124 CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Authorization. It is the intent of this section to provide the
Planning Commission with a framework of regulatory standards to be utilized as
a basis for approving or disapproving home occupations.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Customary home occupations may be carried
on in residential structures under the following conditions:
      (1)   No more than one-half of the floor area of one story of the
dwelling is devoted to the use.
      (2)   No outdoor activities are carried on in connection with the use,
and that no more than one employee, other than the occupants of the dwelling,
is engaged in the activities.
      (3)   No manufacturing or commercial storage uses may be considered home
occupations. Offices for online sales are permitted, but in-person retail uses
are prohibited.
      (4)   There shall be no external evidence of the occupations or uses
except a small announcement or identification sign in accordance with §
153.083.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.125 MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Authorization. Because of particular functional and other inherent
characteristics, certain land and structure uses have a high potential of being
injurious to surrounding properties by depreciating the quality and value of
the property. Many of these uses may also be injurious to the village as a
whole unless they are controlled by minimum standards of construction and
operation. It is the intent of this section to provide a framework of
regulatory standards which can be utilized by the Planning Commission as a
basis for approving or disapproving certain special uses which may be permitted
by the issuance of a special use permit within the particular zone districts
cited.
   (B)   Site development requirements. A special use permit shall not be
issued for the occupancy or use of a structure or parcel of land, or for the
erection, reconstruction, or alteration of a structure unless complying with
the following site development requirements. Without limiting the powers of the
Planning Commission in any other section of this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall have the authority to revoke any special use permit when,
after reasonable warning, the operators of any use permitted under this section
fail to comply with any of the requirements stipulated.
      (1)   Incinerators and sanitary fills.
         (a)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with
all applicable state statutes.
         (b)   All active uses shall be enclosed by a fence six feet or more in
height for the entire periphery of the property. Fences shall be adequate to
prevent trespass and shall be placed no closer than 50 feet to the top or
bottom of any slope.
         (c)   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated
progressively as they are worked out or abandoned so that they shall be in
condition of being entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous, and blended with
the general surrounding ground form.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall establish routes for truck
movement in and out of the development in order to minimize the wear on public
streets, to minimize traffic hazards, and to prevent encroachment of traffic or
the byproducts of traffic (such as dust and noise), upon adjacent properties.
         (e)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat,
orderly condition as to prevent injury to any single property, any individual,
or to the village in general.
      (2)   Sewage treatment and disposal installations.
         (a)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with
all applicable state statutes. If any of the requirements of this division (B)
(2) are less than those in applicable state statutes, the state requirements
shall prevail.
         (b)   All operations shall be completely enclosed by a wire-link fence
not less than six feet high.
         (c)   All operations and structures shall be surrounded on all sides
by a transition strip at least 200 feet in width within which grass, plant
materials, and structural screens shall be placed to minimize the appearance
and odors of the installation. The Planning Commission shall approve all
treatment of transition strips.
      (3)   Drive-in theaters, race tracks, temporary and transient amusement
enterprises, golf driving ranges, and miniature golf courses (i.e. commercial
recreation facilities).
         (a)   All sites shall be located on a major thoroughfare. All traffic
ingress or egress shall be from the thoroughfare. Local traffic movement shall
be accommodated within the site so that entering and exiting vehicles will make
normal and uncomplicated movements into or out of the major thoroughfare.
         (b)   All points of entrance or exit for motor vehicles shall be
located no closer than 100 feet from the intersection of any two street(s) or
highway(s).
         (c)   Golf driving ranges shall provide the safety screening as deemed
reasonable and necessary by the Planning Commission to protect the safety and
welfare of adjacent areas.
         (d)   Race tracks and drive-in theaters shall be enclosed for their
full periphery with an obscuring screen fence at least six feet in height.
Fences shall be of sound construction, painted or otherwise finished neatly,
attractively, and inconspicuously.
         (e)   Drive-in theater ticket gates shall be provided in accordance
with the following rations: one ticket gate for 300-car capacity theaters, two
ticket gates for 600-car capacity theaters, three ticket gates for 800-car
capacity theaters, four ticket gates for 1,000-car capacity theaters. Vehicle
standing space shall be provided between the ticket gates and the street or
highway right-of-way line equal to at least 30% of the vehicular capacity of
the theater.
         (f)   Drive-in theater picture screens shall not be permitted to face
any public street and shall be so located as to be out of the view from any
major thoroughfare. The picture screen tower shall not exceed 65 feet in
height.
         (g)   For drive-in theaters, no more than two advertising signs not
exceeding in aggregate more than 500 square feet shall be permitted. The signs
shall only advertise the business and shall be so located as not to obstruct
traffic or vision upon any public street. In no event is any one sign to exceed
250 square feet.
      (4)   Adult entertainment establishments. The proposed use shall only be
allowed if:
         (a)   There are no other adult entertainment establishments within a
1,000 foot radius.
         (b)   There are no schools, libraries, churches, or public parks
within a 500 foot radius of the proposed adult entertainment establishment.
         (c)   Nude entertainers and material depicting nudity may not be
visible through the windows of the establishment.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.126 ACCESSORY RETAIL/RESTAURANTS IN THE M-1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Authorization. In recognition of the various accessory uses that have
been found compatible and reasonably harmonious with industrial uses operated
within the M-1 District, the village may authorize the construction,
maintenance, and operation of accessory uses in certain areas within the
industrial zoning district as specified in this section by the issuance of a
special use permit. The permit shall not be issued unless all procedures and
applicable requirements stated in §
153.115, together with the additional requirements of this section, can be
complied with.
   (B)   Accessory uses that may be permitted. The following land and structure
uses may be permitted on property within areas of the M-1 District:
      (1)   Retail sales of products related to the approved primary industrial
use of the property, provided that items for sale must contain, or be related
to, the materials or products originated or processed on the subject premises.
      (2)   Restaurants and/or brew pubs which provide for consumption on the
premises. Restaurant uses in the M-1 District shall also be subject to the
following:
         (a)   Shall not include a drive-in or drive-through component.
         (b)   No dancing or entertainment shall be permitted.
         (c)   Restaurants operated as an accessory use to the approved primary
industrial use of the property shall meet all requirements of the M-1 District.
(Ord. 202, passed 4-21-2008; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-
2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.127 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing wireless telecommunications facilities. The following shall
apply to wireless telecommunications facilities constructed before January 1,
2015:
      (1)   No Planning Commission or Village Council approval shall be
required for co-locations or modifications. The Zoning Administrator shall
review all applications for compliance with this chapter, with input from the
Village Planner or Village Engineer as necessary. The following standards shall
apply to co-locations and modifications:
         (a)   All ground equipment must be enclosed by an opaque fence at
least as tall as the tallest structure within the compound, not including the
tower.
         (b)   The facility must be accessible from a public right-of-way via a
driveway meeting the standards of this chapter.
         (c)   All RF emissions signage required by the FCC must be posted. All
other FCC standards must be met.
         (d)   A structural report, signed by a licensed structural engineer,
must be submitted. The report must show clearly that the tower is structurally
sound and can safely carry the weight of all proposed new antennas.
   (B)   New wireless telecommunications facilities. The following shall apply
to wireless telecommunications facilities constructed after January 1, 2015:
      (1)   The applicant must submit a report showing that all co-location
opportunities nearby have been considered and that a new tower is necessary for
one of the following reasons:
         (a)   Coverage would not be sufficient from any existing site.
         (b)   None of the potential co-location sites have towers that are
structurally sound enough to carry the additional equipment.
      (2)   All ground equipment must be enclosed by an opaque fence at least
as tall as the tallest structure within the compound, not including the tower.
      (3)   The facility must be accessible from a public right-of-way via a
driveway meeting the standards of this chapter.
      (4)   All RF emissions signage required by the FCC must be posted. All
other FCC standards must be met.
      (5)   A fall zone equal to the height of the tower must be maintained
between the tower and the nearest structure outside the proposed compound.
      (6)   The building height standards for the zoning district in question
shall not apply to towers for wireless telecommunications facilities. However,
the tower shall be the lowest possible height to provide the necessary service
coverage.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.128 SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES.
   The following standards shall apply to solar energy facilities.
   (A)   Solar energy facilities in the M-1 District must be approved by the
Planning Commission through the site plan approval process described in §
153.087, and must meet the following standards:
      (1)   A report must be submitted to the village stating that the solar
resources on the site are sufficient to achieve the goals of the solar energy
facility.
      (2)   The setback and lot coverage standards for the M-1 district must be
maintained.
      (3)   Sufficient access must be provided to the solar array to provide
for maintenance.
      (4)   Screening landscaping or fencing as described in §
153.081(F)(3) must be provided along all lot lines, regardless of the abutting
zoning district.
   (B)   Solar energy facilities in all other zoning districts must be approved
by the Planning Commission through the special use approval process described
in §
153.115, and must meet the following standards:
      (1)   The solar energy facility must be accessory to a permitted use the
zoning district.
      (2)   A report must be submitted to the village stating that the solar
resources on the site are sufficient to achieve the goals of the solar energy
facility.
      (3)   The solar energy facility must be designed to provide electricity
primarily for the principal use on the property.
      (4)   The solar energy facility shall be considered an accessory
structure, subject to the provisions of §
153.081(B), unless the solar array is located on the roof of the principal
structure. If the solar array is located on the roof of another accessory
structure, it shall be considered part of that accessory structure.
      (5)   Sufficient access must be provided to the solar array to provide
for maintenance.
      (6)   The solar energy facility must be screened from view from ground
level of all adjacent properties, unless the solar energy facility is located
on the roof of the principal structure or another accessory structure on the
lot.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.129 WIND ENERGY FACILITIES.
   Wind energy facilities in all zoning districts must be approved by the
Planning Commission through the special use approval process described in §
153.115, and must meet the following standards:
   (A)   The wind energy facility must be accessory to a permitted use the
zoning district, except in the M-1 district, where the wind energy facility may
be the principal use.
   (B)   The wind energy facility must be designed to provide electricity
primarily for the principal use on the property, except in the M-1 district.
   (C)   The setback and lot coverage standards for the zoning district in
questions must be maintained.
   (D)   Sufficient access must be provided to the wind energy facility to
provide for maintenance.
   (E)   A "fall zone" equal to the height of the windmill must be maintained
between the windmill and any other structure.
   (F)   The building height standards for the zoning district in question
shall not apply to towers for wind energy facilities. However, the windmill
shall be the lowest possible height to produce the needed energy for the
principal use on the property, except in the M-1 district, where it shall be
the lowest possible height needed to produce the desired amount of electricity.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.130 GOLF COURSES AND COUNTRY CLUBS.
   The following standards shall apply to golf courses and country clubs.
   (A)   The site area shall be 50 acres or more and shall be so designed as to
provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major arterial.
   (B)   A site plan of the proposed development shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Commission. The site plan shall indicate the location of
service roads, entrances, driveways, and parking areas and shall be so designed
in relationship to the major arterial that pedestrian and vehicular traffic
safety is encouraged.
   (C)   Development features shall be shown on the site plans, including the
principal and accessory buildings, structures, and parking areas, and shall be
so located as to minimize any possible adverse effects upon adjacent property.
All principal or accessory buildings and parking areas shall be not less than
200 feet from any property line of abutting residentially zoned lands.
   (D)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be provided as
required in §
153.100, including additional spaces which may be required for each accessory
use, such as a restaurant or bar.
   (E)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, the pool shall be located
at least 100 feet from abutting residentially zoned property lines and shall be
provided with a protective fence six feet in height, and entry shall be by
means of a controlled gate.
   (F)   All lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged and maintained as to direct the light away from all residential lands
which adjoin the site.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.131 GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   The following standards apply to group housing developments, including those
types of residential housing customarily known as garden apartments, terrace
apartments, townhouses, row housing units, and other housing structures of
similar character.
   (A)   Two or more residential buildings of similar or different character
may be built upon one lot or parcel of land when a site plan is submitted to
and approved by the Planning Commission and when the following site development
requirements have been complied with:
      (1)   The proposed project must be serviced by public or semi-private
water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer systems.
      (2)   Minimum site area. No group housing development shall be authorized
with a gross site area of less than two acres.
      (3)   Minimum lot area. No group housing development shall be established
on a lot or parcel having a width less than 150 feet, provided, however, that
for group housing the average lot area per family or dwelling unit shall not be
less than 2,500 square feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Not more than 35% of the net area within
property lines within a group housing project, including accessory buildings,
shall be covered by buildings.
      (5)   Yards and other open space.
         (a)   Between buildings. The minimum horizontal distance between
buildings (front to front, rear to rear, or front to rear) shall be 50 feet for
buildings one story in height. This distance shall be increased by no less than
five feet for every story added. The minimum distance between buildings may be
decreased by as much as ten feet toward one end if it is increased by a similar
distance at the other and consistent modifications are permitted by the Village
Planning Commission to accommodate plans which are not conventional in their
outline or in their relation to other buildings.
         (b)   Between ends of buildings. The horizontal distance between ends
of buildings shall be 20 feet or more for one or two story buildings. These
distances shall be increased by not less than five feet for every story added.
         (c)   Closed courts. No closed courts shall be permitted. However,
open arcades or garden walls not over six feet in height shall not be deemed
enclosing features.
         (d)   Yard dimensions. For buildings up to 35 feet in height, no
building shall be closer than 25 feet to any street, 35 feet to any rear
property line, or 20 feet to an interior side property line. For each one foot
of building height above 35 feet, one foot shall be added to required front,
side, and rear yards.
         (e)   Other dimensions. No dwelling unit in a group housing
development shall be closer to a street or private access drive than 25 feet,
or shall be further from a street or private access drive than 150 feet.
         (f)   Usable open space. A minimum usable open space area of 100
square feet per dwelling unit shall be provided within group housing
developments. The open space shall be provided at ground level, unoccupied by
principal or accessory buildings, and available to all occupants of the group
housing development. Each open space so provided shall have a minimum total
area of 1,200 square feet and shall be unobstructed to the sky and shall not be
devoted to service driveways or off-street parking or loading space, but shall
be usable for greenery, drying yards, recreational space, and other leisure
activity normally carried on outdoors.
      (6)   Signs. Shall be in accordance with requirements specified in §
153.081.
      (7)   Off-street parking space. Shall be provided as specified in §
153.100.
      (8)   Private streets. Private streets or private access drives may be
permitted within group housing developments, provided, that the following
minimum requirements are met:
         (a)   All streets, roadways, or private access drives will be paved to
a minimum width of 20 feet when parking is prohibited. Additional widths for
streets may be required by the Planning Commission based upon the particular
density and building relationship of the proposed group housing development.
         (b)   No dead-end street or roadway shall serve more than 75 families
as a means of vehicular access.
         (c)   Suitable turning facilities shall be provided for vehicles at
the terminus of all dead end streets or roadways. A minimum radius of 50 feet
shall be required for all turnarounds and additional width may be required by
the Village Planning Commission after consideration of the vehicular needs of a
particular group housing development proposal.
         (d)   Satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Planning
Commission regarding the maintenance and repair of streets, roadways, or access
drives.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.132 DRIVE-THROUGHS.
   The following standards apply to drive-throughs, regardless of the product
or service being offered at the drive-through.
   (A)   Service may be in automobiles or outdoors, but all other activities
shall be carried on within a building.
   (B)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 50 feet from the
intersection of any two streets.
   (C)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
   (D)   All motor vehicle parking and standing areas shall be provided and
improved in accordance with the requirements stated in §
153.100.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.133 JUNK YARDS.
   The following standards apply to junk yards:
   (A)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with all
applicable state statutes. If any of the requirements of this chapter are less
than those in applicable state statutes, the state requirements shall prevail.
   (B)   The site shall be a minimum of one acre in size.
   (C)   An obscuring fence or wall at least eight feet in height shall be
provided around the entire periphery of the site to screen the site from
surrounding property. The fence or wall shall be of sound construction,
painted, and otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously.
   (D)   All activities shall be confined within the fenced in area. There
shall be no piling of material above the height of the fence or wall, except
that movable equipment used on the site may exceed the wall or fence height. No
equipment, material, signs, or lighting shall be used or stored outside the
fenced in area.
   (E)   All fenced in area shall be set back at least 100 feet from any front
street or property line. The front yard setback shall be planted with trees,
grass, and shrubs to minimize the appearance of the installation. The spacing
and type of plant materials to be determined by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   No open burning shall be permitted and all industrial processes
involving the use of equipment for cutting, compressing, or packaging shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
   (G)   Whenever the installation abuts upon property within a residential or
agricultural district, a transition strip of at least 200 feet in width shall
be provided between the fenced in area and the property within a residential or
agricultural district. The strip shall contain plant materials or grass and
structural screens of a type approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.134 EXTRACTIVE USES.
   Excavation of soils and minerals. The excavation of peat, muck, sand,
gravel, clay, shale, or other natural mineral deposit, including the quarrying
of rock minerals, but except crude oil, may be authorized in the M-1 district
by the Planning Commission by the issuance of a special use permit, provided
that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The applicant must provide the village with an acceptable plan for the
reclamation of the excavation site at the end of its useful life. In addition
to the plan required in §
153.115, the applicant shall submit plans and proposals for the reuse of the
property after completion of excavation. As a minimum, the plans are to provide
rehabilitation of the excavated area so that the proposed site, when
rehabilitated, shall be in a condition of being lacking in hazards and be
inconspicuous and blend into the natural ground form of the area. The plans
shall include a contour plan.
   (B)   The village may require off-site community benefits as conditions of
the special use approval, provided that they are directly related to the
negative impacts of the quarry.
   (C)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with all
applicable state statutes. If any of the requirements of this chapter are less
than those in applicable state statutes, the state requirements shall prevail.
   (D)   The applicant shall file with the Planning Commission a performance
bond in the amount as the Village Engineer shall deem sufficient to ensure
completion of the work following excavation pursuant to the conditions as set
forth in §
153.115.
   (E)   All uses shall be enclosed by a fence, adequate to prevent trespass
and eight feet in height, and for the entire periphery of the excavation area.
The top of the slope of the excavation shall not be closer than 50 feet from
the property line.
   (F)   No slope shall exceed an angle with the horizontal of 45 degrees.
   (G)   All slopes and banks shall be reasonably graded and treated to prevent
erosion or any other potential deterioration.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall establish routes for truck movement to
and from the site in order to minimize the wear on public streets and to
prevent hazards and damage to properties in the community. That portion of
access roads within the area of operation shall be provided with a dustless
surface.
   (I)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to single property, any individual, or to the
village in general.
   (J)   Proper measures, as determined by the Planning Commission, shall be
taken to minimize the nuisance of noise and flying dust or rock. The measures
may include, when considered necessary, limitations upon the practice of
stockpiling of excavated materials on the site.
   (K)   When excavation and removal operations are completed, the excavated
area shall be graded so that no gradients in disturbed earth shall be steeper
than a slope of three-one (horizontal-vertical). A layer of arable topsoil, of
a quality approved by the Village Engineer, shall be spread over the excavated
area, except exposed rock surfaces, to a minimum depth of four inches in
accordance with an approved contour plan. The area shall be seeded with a
perennial rye grass and maintained until the area is stabilized and approved by
the Planning Commission.
   (L)   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated as they
are worked out or abandoned so that they shall comply with the rehabilitation
plan as approved by the issuance of the special use permit.
   (M)   Any extension of quarrying operations beyond the property lines
actually quarried at the effective date of this chapter shall be considered as
a new operation and shall require a special use permit. Any extension of an
approved quarrying operation that was not included in the original special use
permit shall require another special use permit.
   (N)   All existing pits at the effective date of this chapter shall be
inspected by the Zoning Administrator to determine the nature and extent of
nonconformity. The uses found to be nonconforming shall be so recorded and
newly-excavated areas shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and
rehabilitation of the presently operated nonconforming pit shall be made
conforming as required through the issuance of a special use permit within one
year of the inspection by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.135 MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 205(1) of Public Act 281 of 2016 (commercial-scale
medical marijuana) and Section 6.1 of Initiated Law 1 of 2018 (adult use
marijuana), the village authorizes the following state-licensed marijuana
facilities for operation within the municipality: growers, processors, safety
compliance facilities, secure transporters, and marijuana provisioning centers.
   (B)   A special use permit may be granted for the following marijuana uses,
if they are located in an M-1 zoning district, west of Elm Road, and not on
lots abutting Grand River Avenue. The area where marijuana businesses can be
approved shall be denoted on the village's official zoning map.
      (1)   Marijuana grow operations.
      (2)   Marijuana processing facilities.
      (3)   Marijuana safety compliance facilities.
      (4)   Marijuana secure transporters.
   (C)   A special use permit may be granted for a marijuana provisioning
center, if the location meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Located in an HC Zoning District.
      (2)   No less than 1,000 feet from an existing approved marijuana
provisioning center.
      (3)   West of Elm Road.
      (4)   Not abutting Grand River Avenue.
   (D)   All special use permits granted to the marijuana uses listed above
shall be conditioned on the licensing of the facility by the State of Michigan.
Facilities must meet all state requirements, including but not limited to those
of LARA and the MDEQ. Facilities must maintain an active license from the State
of Michigan under Public Act 281 of 2016 (commercial-scale medical marijuana)
and/or Initiated Law 1 of 2018 (adult use marijuana) at all times in order to
operate.
   (E)   The following shall apply to grow operations, processing facilities,
and safety compliance facilities:
      (1)   All facilities must be designed and operated to minimize the amount
of pesticides, fertilizers, nutrients, marijuana, and other potential
contaminants discharged into the public wastewater and/or stormwater systems.
      (2)   All facilities must be designed to minimize odors emanating from
the marijuana plants.
      (3)   All facilities must maintain a secure, closed, clean environment in
the room where marijuana is to be stored, grown, processed, or tested, in order
to prevent outside contamination and prevent the inadvertent and/or
unauthorized removal of marijuana from the facility. All facilities must
provide shower and locker room facilities for employees to ensure the provision
of a clean environment.
      (4)   All facilities must have adequate security to prevent access to the
marijuana by non-authorized personnel, including unauthorized removal. All
rooms that contain marijuana, in any form, must be individually locked and
accessible only to authorized personal.
      (5)   All drying, soil mixing, testing, processing, and other non-growing
activities must take place in a separate room from any growing activities.
      (6)   All facilities must be in compliance with the standards of this
chapter, including but not limited to the standards in §
153.062(E), at all times.
   (F)   The following shall apply to secure transporters:
      (1)   All facilities, vehicles, and processes must be designed and
operated to minimize the amount of pesticides, fertilizers, nutrients,
marijuana, and other potential contaminants discharged into the public
wastewater and/or stormwater systems.
      (2)   All facilities, vehicles, and processes must be designed to
minimize odors emanating from the marijuana plants.
      (3)   All operations must have processes in place to prevent the
contamination or pollination of the marijuana during the loading and unloading
process.
      (4)   All facilities, vehicles, and processes must have adequate security
to prevent access to the marijuana by non-authorized personnel, including
unauthorized removal. All marijuana must be stored in hermetically sealed
containers prior to transport.
      (5)   All operations must be in compliance with the standards of this
chapter, including but not limited to the standards in §
153.062(E), at all times.
   (G)   The following shall apply to provisioning centers:
      (1)   All facilities must be designed to minimize odors emanating from
the marijuana plants.
      (2)   All facilities must have adequate security to prevent access to the
marijuana by non-authorized personnel, including unauthorized removal. All
rooms that contain marijuana, in any form, must be individually locked and
accessible only to authorized personnel.
      (3)   No facility shall be open to the general public between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 8:30 a.m.
      (4)   No parking, other than by security employees of the provisioning
center, shall be allowed at the facility between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (5)   The facility shall operate entirely within an enclosed building. No
outdoor sales shall be permitted. Curbside service may be authorized by the
Village Council on a temporary basis.
      (6)   No smoking, inhalation, or consumption of marijuana shall take
place on the premises of the facility.
      (7)   All operations must be in compliance with the standards of this
chapter, including but not limited to the standards in §
153.062(E), at all times.
   (H)   If approved for a special use, and after payment of a fee to be
determined by the Village Council, marijuana facilities shall be issued an
operating license.
      (1)   The operating license must be renewed annually, through the payment
of a fee to be determined by the Village Council and through compliance with
the requirements of the State of Michigan and this chapter as demonstrated
through an inspection by the Building Official or his or her designee.
      (2)   The Operating License and State Marijuana Facility License must be
displayed in plain view clearly visible to village officials and Marijuana
Licensing Board authorized agents.
      (3)   All license holders shall be subject to periodic inspection, and
shall make their facilities available to any and all authorized state and local
building inspectors, environmental inspectors, and law enforcement personnel.
      (4)   Consistent with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, special use
approvals shall be designated to the property where the special use is
approved, not to the entity or individual applying for the special use permit.
However, the Operating License shall be granted to a particular entity or
individual. The Operating License shall not be transferable to any other entity
or individual, nor shall it be transferable to any other lot within the
village.
      (5)   An entity or individual wishing to operate a marijuana business on
a lot where a special use has been approved, but where no Operating License is
active, shall apply to amend the special use to reflect the proposed new
Operating License. Amending the special use shall have the same process as
obtaining a new special use permit, as described in this chapter.
   (I)   Within 30 days after special use approval, the village shall provide
the following to the Medical Marijuana Licensing Board:
      (1)   A copy of this chapter.
      (2)   A copy of any zoning regulations that apply to the applicant
facility.
      (3)   A description of any violation of this chapter or applicable zoning
regulations committed by the applicant, but only if those violations related to
activities licensed under Public Act 281 of 2016 (commercial-scale medical
marijuana) and/or Initiated Law 1 of 2018 (adult use marijuana).
   (J)   No person who has opened or operated a facility doing business or
purporting to do business under this section without first obtaining a special
use permit and a State Operating License shall be eligible for an Operating
License under this chapter.
   (K)   Licensed medical marijuana caregivers authorized by the State of
Michigan under Initiated Law 1 of 2008 (which legalized marijuana caregivers
but not commercial-scale medical marijuana) shall be considered home
occupations, shall not be permitted to operate in the M-1 or HC Zoning
Districts, and must comply will all applicable village ordinances, including,
but not limited to, §
153.062(E) and §
153.124, and all applicable state laws. No more than one caregiver shall
operate on any given lot.
   (L)   A special use permit for a medical marijuana use authorized by this
chapter and approved by the Village Council prior to November 6, 2018 may be
converted into a special use permit for a general marijuana use (which could
include medical, recreational, or both), through approval by the Village
Council. The applicant need not repeat the special use process. Instead, the
Village Council shall approve the conversion from medical to general if the
following requirements are met.
      (1)   The use is in compliance with all conditions of its ongoing special
use permit, and will continue to be in compliance with all conditions of its
ongoing special use permit after the transition to a general marijuana use.
      (2)   The use is in compliance with all state requirements and is either
licensed by the state or in the process of becoming licensed with the state.
      (3)   Any revisions to the original approvals for the use necessitated by
the conversion from medical to general must be accomplished in the following
fashion:
         (a)   Revisions to the conditions of a special use permit may be
approved through repeating the special use process (which may include a
conversion to a general marijuana use), or during an annual renewal of a
special use (at which time, the conversion approval may also take place).
         (b)   Revisions to the approved site plan may be approved through
Village Council approval of a revised site plan. The conversion approval may
also take place in conjunction with the revised site plan approval.
   (M)   Special use permits issued under this section may be revoked by the
Village Council for any of the following:
      (1)   Knowing fraudulent or material misrepresentation contained in the
application.
      (2)   A pattern of knowing violations of this section, after reasonable
notice and opportunity to cure.
      (3)   A loss after final determination of the State Medical Marihuana
Licensing Board of the permit holder's State Medical Marihuana Facility
License.
      (4)   Failure or refusal to pay the annual fee.
(Res., passed 6-11-2019; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.140 VILLAGE COUNCIL MAY AMEND.
   The regulations and provisions stated in the text of this chapter and the
boundaries of zoning districts shown on the Zoning Districts Map of the village
may be amended, supplemented, or changed by the Village Council in accordance
with Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A.
125.3101 through 125.3702, as amended.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.141 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Proposals for amendments, supplements, or changes may be initiated by the
Village Council on its own motion or by petition of one or more owners of
property to be affected by the proposed amendment.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.142 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Petition. Each petition by one or more owners for an amendment shall
be submitted by application to the Village Clerk on a standard form provided. A
fee as established by the Village Council shall be paid at the time of
application to cover costs of necessary advertising for public hearing, for the
use of a standard amendment sign, and investigation of the amendment request.
No part of the fee shall be returnable to a petitioner. The Village Clerk shall
transmit the application to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Public hearing. After deliberations on any proposal, the Planning
Commission shall conduct a public hearing before any regulations shall become
effective. Not less than 15-days notice of the time and place of the public
hearing shall first be published in an official paper or paper of general
circulation in the village and not less than 15-days notice of the time and
place of the public hearing shall first be given by registered United States
mail to each public utility company and to each railroad company owning or
operating any public utility or railroad within the districts or zones
affected, and a hearing be granted any person interested at the time and place
specified.
   (C)   Planning Commission recommendation. Following the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall issue a recommendation to the Village Council on
whether to approve or deny the application.
   (D)   Village Council action. Based on the Planning Commission's
recommendation, the Village Council shall take action on the rezoning
application, either approving it or denying it.
   (E)   Resubmittal. No application for a rezoning which has been denied by
the Village Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of the last denial, except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or proof of
changed conditions found upon inspection by the Village Council to be valid.
(Ord. 85, passed 2-2-1981; Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-
2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.143 REZONING WITH CONDITIONS.
   The village recognizes that, under certain instances, it may be to the
village's and the landowner's advantage to consider rezoning of certain lands
if the application is accompanied by a site plan and subject to certain
conditions. Accordingly, it is the intent of this section to provide a
conditional rezoning option to landowners in accordance with the provisions of
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, P.A. 110 of 2006, as amended.
   (A)   Eligibility. An applicant shall have the option of seeking conditional
rezoning in connection with submission of an application seeking rezoning. To
be eligible for review as a conditional rezoning, the applicant must own the
land in question or must have an interest in the property such as a lease or an
agreement in principle to purchase the property. If the applicant is not the
landowner, they must submit written consent from the landowner for the property
to be the subject of the application. The applicant shall, as part of an
application for rezoning of land to a new zoning district classification,
voluntarily offer certain site-specific regulations or conditions that are
equally or more restrictive than the regulations of this chapter for the
proposed zoning district.
   (B)   Application requirements. A conditional rezoning amendment shall be
initiated by submission of a complete application and site plan to the village,
along with the required fee established by Village Council.
      (1)   General information. In the case of any amendment to the official
Zoning Map, the following information shall accompany the application and fee:
         (a)   A legal description and street address of the subject land,
together with a survey and location map identifying the subject land in
relation to surrounding properties.
         (b)   The name, address, and contact information (phone, email, etc.)
of the applicant.
         (c)   The name and address of the landowner, and a statement of the
applicant's interest in the subject land, if not the owner in fee simple title.
         (d)   Written consent by the landowner for the property to be the
subject of the application.
         (e)   The existing and proposed zoning district designation of the
subject land and surrounding properties.
         (f)   A written description of how the requested amendment meets the
criteria stated in this section.
      (2)   Additional information for a conditional rezoning application. The
conditional rezoning application shall include the following additional
information:
         (a)   Conditional rezoning site plan. The applicant shall provide a
conditional rezoning site plan, including all required information in Section
9.1.5. The site plan shall be approved or denied along with the conditional
rezoning.
         (b)   Rezoning conditions. The applicant, subject to the following,
shall propose rezoning conditions in writing. Such rezoning conditions shall
not:
            1.   Authorize uses or development of greater intensity or density
than are permitted in the district proposed by the rezoning.
            2.   Authorize uses or development expressly or implicitly
prohibited in the district proposed by the rezoning.
   (C)   Review and approval procedures. The review and approval process shall
be the same as for rezoning amendments without conditions, as described in §
153.142.
   (D)   Conditional rezoning agreement. The applicant shall prepare a proposed
conditional rezoning agreement. The proposed agreement shall incorporate the
conditional rezoning plan proposed by the applicant, and shall set forth the
rezoning conditions and any other terms mutually agreed upon by the parties
relative to the land subject to the proposed conditional rezoning.
      (1)   Contents and terms. A conditional rezoning agreement shall include
the following terms:
         (a)   Agreement and acknowledgment that the conditional rezoning was
proposed by the applicant to induce the village to grant the rezoning, and that
the village relied upon such proposal and would not have granted the rezoning
but for the terms in the conditional rezoning agreement.
         (b)   Agreement and acknowledgment that the conditions and conditional
rezoning agreement are authorized by all applicable state and federal laws and
constitution, and that the conditional rezoning agreement is valid and was
entered into on a voluntary basis, representing a permissible exercise of
authority by the village.
         (c)   Agreement and understanding that the land in question shall not
be developed or used in a manner that is inconsistent with the conditional
rezoning plan and conditional rezoning agreement.
         (d)   Agreement and understanding that the approval and conditional
rezoning agreement shall be binding for an agreed upon amount of time, or inure
to the benefit of the landowner and the village, and their respective heirs,
successors, assigns, and transferees in perpetuity.
         (e)   Agreement and understanding that, if a conditional zoning
becomes void in the manner provided in this section, no development shall be
undertaken or permits for development issued until the underlying zoning
district classification of the land has been re-established by resolution of
the Village Council.
         (f)   Agreement and understanding that each of the requirements and
conditions in the conditional rezoning agreement represents a necessary and
reasonable measure which, when considered with all other conditions and
requirements, is roughly proportional to the increased impact created by the
use represented in the approved conditional rezoning, taking into consideration
the changed zoning district classification and the specific use authorization
granted.
      (2)   Effective date and recording of conditional rezoning agreement. A
conditional rezoning shall become effective following both publication in the
manner provided by law and recording of the conditional rezoning agreement with
the Oakland County Register of Deeds office by the applicant with proof of
recording given to the Clerk's Office.
      (3)   Amendment of conditional rezoning agreement. Amendment of a
conditional rezoning agreement shall be proposed, reviewed, and approved in the
same manner as a new conditional rezoning application.
      (4)   Expiration of conditional rezoning agreement. The conditional
rezoning approval shall expire following a period of one year from the
effective date of the rezoning unless:
         (a)   Approved development of the land commences within such one year
period and proceeds diligently and in good faith as required by ordinance to
completion; or
         (b)   The rezoning is extended for good cause by the Village Council.
   (E)   Approval criteria. The applicant shall have the burden of
demonstrating that the following requirements and standards are met by the
conditional rezoning plan, rezoning conditions, and conditional rezoning
agreement:
      (1)   Enhancement of the project area. The Planning Commission shall
determine that approval of the conditional rezoning shall:
         (a)   Accomplish the integration of the proposed land development
project with the characteristics of the project area; and
         (b)   Result in an enhancement of the project area that would be
unlikely to be achieved or would not be assured without the use of conditional
rezoning.
      (2)   In the public interest.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall determine that, in considering the
site specific land use proposed by the applicant, sufficient conditions have
been included in the conditional rezoning plan and conditional rezoning
agreement so that the public interest would be served by granting the
conditional rezoning.
         (b)   In determining whether approval of a proposal would be in the
public interest, the benefits that would be reasonably expected to accrue from
the proposal shall be balanced against, and be found to clearly outweigh the
reasonably foreseeable detriments thereof, taking into consideration reasonably
accepted planning, engineering, environmental and other principles and factors.
      (3)   Other amendment considerations. In considering a conditional
rezoning amendment, the Planning Commission and Village Council shall also
consider the following factors:
         (a)   Consistency with the Master Plan's goals, policies, and future
land use map, including planned timing or sequence of development. If
conditions have changed since the Master Plan was adopted, the consistency with
recent development trends in the area shall be considered.
         (b)   Compatibility of all potential uses allowed in the zoning
district(s) under the proposed conditional rezoning with the site's physical,
geological, hydrological, and other environmental features, including potential
ground water contamination.
         (c)   Compatibility of all potential uses allowed in the zoning
district(s) under the proposed conditional rezoning with surrounding uses,
densities, and zoning in terms of suitability, intensity, traffic impacts,
aesthetics, infrastructure and potential influence on property values.
         (d)   Capacity of available utilities and public services to
accommodate all potential uses allowed in the zoning district(s) under the
proposed conditional rezoning without compromising the health, safety, and
welfare of village residents or burdening the village or Ingham County with
unplanned capital improvement costs or other unplanned public expenses.
         (e)   Capability of the road system to safely and efficiently
accommodate the expected traffic generated by all potential uses allowed in the
zoning district(s) under the proposed conditional rezoning.
         (f)   The apparent demand for the types of potential uses allowed in
the zoning district(s) under the proposed conditional rezoning in relation to
the amount of land currently zoned and available in the village and surrounding
communities to accommodate the demand.
         (g)   The boundaries of the proposed zoning district(s) in
relationship to the surrounding area and the scale of future development on the
site.
         (h)   The requested conditional rezoning will not create an isolated
or incompatible zone in the area.
         (i)   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Village Council.
   (F)   Zoning district designation. If approved, the zoning classification of
the rezoned land shall consist of the district to which the land has been
rezoned accompanied by a reference to "CR" (Conditional Rezoning). For example,
the Official Zoning Map designation for a conditional rezoning to the B-
2 District would be "B-2/CR."
   (G)   Re-application. Whenever a conditional rezoning application has been
rejected by the Village Council, a new application may be submitted, provided
at least one of the following conditions is met:
      (1)   There is a substantial change in circumstances relevant to the
issues or facts considered during review of the application.
      (2)   New or additional information is available that was not available
at the time of the review.
      (3)   The new application is materially different from the prior
application.
      (4)   At least 365 days have passed since the rejection of the previous
application.
   (H)   Extension of conditional rezoning approval. In the event that a bona
fide development has not commenced within two years from the effective date of
the rezoning, the conditional rezoning and conditional rezoning agreement shall
be void and of no effect.
      (1)   The Village Council may approve one extension of up to 365 calendar
days, upon written request by the applicant or landowner received by the
Village Clerk before the two year time limit expires.
      (2)   The applicant for an extension shall show good cause why the
extension should be granted.
   (I)   Revert to former zoning. If the conditional zoning becomes void and of
no effect, then by automatic reverter set forth in the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, P.A. 110 of 2006, as amended, the land shall revert to its former zoning
classification, which shall be confirmed by resolution of the Village Council.
   (J)   Change in use or ownership. Any change in use or ownership on a site
subject to a conditional rezoning agreement shall require Planning Commission
review and approval to confirm that the site will still be in compliance with
the approved conditional rezoning agreement. This approval shall be in addition
to any other approval required for the proposed changes on the site.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 153.155 CREATION.
   There shall be a Village of Webberville Planning Commission pursuant to P.A.
33 of 2008, as amended, being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A.
125.3801 et seq., hereinafter referred to as the Commission with the powers and
duties as therein set forth and as hereinafter provided and staffed Planning
Department. This subchapter shall be officially known and described as the
Village of Webberville Planning Commission Ordinance.
(Ord. 205 passed, 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.156 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Village
President subject to approval by the Village Council. To be qualified to be a
member and remain a member of the Commission, the individual shall meet the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Shall be a qualified elector of the village, except one non-
qualified elector may be a member of the Commission.
      (2)   Shall not be a declared candidate for any political office.
      (3)   After an individual's first appointment and before reappointment
shall have attended training for Commission members, pursuant to §
153.158 below, unless waived by a majority vote of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Shall meet the conditions provided for each individual member in
sections of this subchapter, except the geographical location of the
individual's residency may be considered optional.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed for three-year terms. However when first
appointed a number of members shall be appointed to one-year, two-year, or
three-year terms such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of all Commission
members will expire each year. If a vacancy occurs, the vacancy shall be filled
for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided for an original
appointment such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of all Commission
members continue to expire each year.
   (C)   The membership shall be representative of the important segments of
the of community, such as the economic, governmental, educational, and social
development of the village, in accordance with the major interests as they
exist in the village, listed for example purposes as follows:
      (1)   Agriculture.
      (2)   Natural resources.
      (3)   Recreation.
      (4)   Education.
      (5)   Public health.
      (6)   Government.
      (7)   Transportation.
      (8)   Industry.
      (9)   Commerce.
   (D)   The membership shall also be representative of the entire geography of
the village to the extent practicable, and as a secondary consideration to the
representation of the major interests.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.157 PROFESSIONAL REVIEW AND ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Commission may request professional reviews and assistance from
village staff and consultants, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Village Planner.
      (2)   Village Clerk.
      (3)   Village Attorney.
      (4)   Village Engineer.
      (5)   Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Department of Public Works.
      (7)   Fire Department.
      (8)   Ingham County Sheriff.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.158 TRAINING.
   Appointed members of the Commission shall attend educational programs
designed for training members of Michigan planning commissions if the adopted
Village of Webberville budget for that fiscal year includes funds to pay for
tuition, registration, and travel expenses for the training. Nothing in this
section shall deem a member who has not had training from finishing his or her
term of office unless the member resigns or is removed by action of the
Webberville Village Council.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.159 MEMBERS, APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   The Village Clerk annually shall determine which members terms of office
expire in that year and shall notify the Village President of such expirations.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.160 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Village Council may remove a member of the Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Failure to disclose a potential conflict of interest
shall be considered malfeasance in office. Failure to repeatedly attend
Commission meetings shall be considered nonfeasance in office.
   (B)   The secretary of the Planning Commission shall report any member who
has missed three regular meetings in a row to the Village Council.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.161 MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   The Village Council shall fill any vacancy in the membership of the
Commission for the unexpired terms in the same manner as the initial
appointment.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.162 FIRST APPOINTMENT TO COMMISSION.
   The Village Council shall appoint all members of the Commission as specified
in §
153.156 in the first instance as soon as practicable after the effective date
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.163 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such with compensation
as established by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.164 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet at least once every quarter and a majority
of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary
business of said Commission and all questions which shall arise at their
meetings shall be determined by a vote of the majority of the members of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The affirmative vote of the total number of seats for members of the
Commission, regardless if vacancies or absences exist or not, shall be
necessary for the adoption, or recommendation for adoption, of any plan or
amendment to a plan.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.165 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall have their powers and duties as set forth in P.A.
33 of 2008, as amended, being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A.
125.3801 et seq., and P.A. 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as amended, being
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, (M.C.L.A. 125.3101 et seq.).
   (B)   The Village Council hereby reserves the authority to approve the
Master Plan and amendments thereto.
   (C)   Temporary permits. The Planning Commission shall be the authority to
permit temporary structures for dwelling purposes, including trailer coaches,
subject to the following procedures and limitations:
      (1)   An application for a permit for the erection or movement of a
temporary structure for dwelling purposes, including trailer coaches, shall be
made to the Board on a special form used exclusively for that purpose.
      (2)   The Board shall give due notice to the applicant and to all
property owners within 300 feet of the property affected at least five days
before the hearing will be held on the application.
      (3)   A temporary permit shall not be granted unless the Board finds
adequate evidence that the proposed location of use will not be detrimental to
property in the immediate vicinity, and that the proposed water supply and
sanitary facilities have been approved by the County Health Department.
      (4)   The Board may impose any reasonable conditions, including setbacks,
land coverage, off-street parking, landscaping, and other requirements deemed
necessary to protect adjoining properties and the public welfare. The violation
of any such condition shall automatically invalidate the permit.
      (5)   The permit issued shall clearly set forth the conditions under
which the permit is granted and shall state that the proposed temporary
dwelling structure is to be vacated upon expiration of a specific time limit
not to exceed six months. No permit shall be transferable to any other owner or
occupant.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.166 MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations,
which records shall be a public record.
(Ord. 205, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-2-1998; Ord. 230, passed 12-9-2014; Ord., passed 8-10-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   STREET VACATIONS
         
II.   BONDS
         
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
IV.   SALES AND TRANSFERS OF LAND
         
V.   FRANCHISES
         
VI.   TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
TABLE I: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Southwest one-fourth of Section 12, T3N, R2E, Oak Street,
199      10-22-2007  vacated; easement retained for public utilities, cable
                     television, and telecommunications
 
TABLE II: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
30       8-19-1957   Issuance and sale of revenue bonds to finance construction
                     of water supply system
                     Issuance and sale of revenue bonds to finance the
58       12-1-1975   improvement, enlargement, and extension of existing
                     sanitary sewage collection facilities
89       2-1-1982    Amends Ord. 30 and Ord. 58
104      6-1-1987    Issuance of revenue bonds to finance construction of
                     wastewater treatment facility
150      10-5-1998   Amends Ord. 30
192      2-20-2006   Issuance and sale of revenue refunding bonds
214      7-11-2011   Issuance and sale of revenue refunding bonds
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The west one-half of the northwest one-fourth of Section
154      3-20-2000   12, T3N, R2E, rezoned from A-1 Agricultural to R-1A One-
                     Family Low Density Residential
                     The west one-half of the northwest one-fourth of Section
156      3-20-2000   12, T3N, R2E, rezoned from A-1 Agricultural to R-1A One-
                     Family Low Density Residential
164      6-25-2001   Property rezoned from R-1A One-Family Low Density
                     Residential to R-1B Medium Density Residential
165      7-16-2001   Parcel #33-43-08-02-451-024 rezoned from R-1A One-Family
                     Low Density Residential to R-1B Medium Density Residential
178      2-3-2003    Parcel #33-43-08-12-151-002 rezoned from A-1 Agricultural
                     to B-2 General Business
179      4-14-2003   Properties rezoned
                     Parcel #33-43-08-12-326-001, located on South Gramer Road,
183      2-16-2004   rezoned from A-1 Agricultural to R-1A.1 Neighborhood Low
                     Density Residential
189      4-4-2005    Property rezoned from R-1A Agricultural to R-1A.1
                     Neighborhood Low Density Residential
 
TABLE IV: SALES AND TRANSFERS OF LAND
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
98           2-4-1985    Land conveyance
119          12-3-1990   Conveyance to Webberville Building Authority
120          12-3-1990   Conveyance to Webberville Building Authority
                         Authorizing execution of purchase agreement and all
Res. 98-5    5-20-199    necessary closing documents for the purchase of the
                         property owned by Mildred Hawley.
175          12-2-2002   Conveyance of land to Mr. Bernard J. Simons
Res. 2023-05 8-22-2023   Relinquishing certain territory to the Township of
                         Leroy
                        
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
29A      7-1-1956    Gas franchise granted to Consumers Power Company
106      8-3-1987    Gas franchise granted to Consumers Power Company
138      9-11-1995   Cable franchise granted to Horizon Cable
216A     7-11-2017   Gas franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company
160A     11-14-2017  Gas franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company
                    
 
TABLE VI: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
102          11-11-1985  Adopted original plan
182          9-22-2003   Adopted second amendment to plan
196          4-23-2007   Adopted third amendment to plan
Res. 2018-02 2-26-2018   Confirming amendment to the plan
230-A        5-15-2018   Adopting and approving an amendment to the plan
231          8-13-2019   Adopting and approving an amendment to the plan
Res. 2020-   5-27-2020   Approving plan amendment #2
—          6- -2020    Adopting and approving amendment #2 to the plan
Res. 2021-01 6-29-2021   Approving amendment to plan
Res. 2022    4-18-2022   Approving plan amendment No II
Res. 2023-01 9-18-2023   Approving amendment plan
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite      Code Section
15.231–15.246    32.05;
                   110.04
15.261–15.275    32.05
24.201–24.328    70.02
61.1               52.01;
                   92.01
                   30.01;
62.1 et seq.       31.15;
                   31.30
65.1 et seq.       30.03
66.1               93.11;
                   130.07
67.25              92.01
68.31–68.35      92.01
69.6               92.01
69.21–69.23      92.01
69.25              92.01
71.3               92.01
71.4               92.01
117.4i(e)          153.003
117.5b             10.01
125.1415a(1)       37.10
125.1501 et seq.   151.02,
                   151.20
125.1501–125.153132.07
125.1514           151.02
125.1651–125.168132.02
125.1653           32.07
125.1653(7)        32.07
125.1657           32.07
125.1662           32.08
125.1663–125.166332.08
125.1664–125.166632.08
125.2301 et seq.   153.121
125.2301           153.003
125.3101 et seq.   153.165
                   153.020;
125.3101–125.3702153.035;
                   153.086;
                   153.140
125.3801 et seq.   153.155;
                   153.165
141.2101           Ch. 35
211.761 et seq.    33.16
247.401            153.083
247.402            153.083
247.403(7)         153.083
252.301            153.083
257.1–257.923    70.01
257.4              Ch. 71, Sch. I
257.61 et seq.     91.01
257.252a(3)        93.05
257.252a(4)        93.05
257.252a(5)        93.06
257.252b(2)        93.09
257.252b(6)        93.09
257.252e           93.07
257.252f           93.07
257.252g           93.08
257.683            93.01
324.1101 et seq.   94.01
324.1143           94.01
333.1101 et seq.   51.04
333.1101           153.003
333.12721          52.12
484.2251           110.04
484.3101 et seq.   110.01;
                   110.03
559.101 et seq.    153.087
                   152.02;
                   152.06–
                   152.08;
560.101–560.293  152.10;
                   152.13;
                   152.99;
                   153.087;
                   153.088
560.113            152.04
560.113–560.118  152.04
560.114            152.04
560.115–560.117  152.04
560.118            152.04
600.8395           Ch. 72, Sch. I
600.8396 et seq    36.01
600.8396           36.04
600.8701 et seq.   92.99
600.8707(2)        92.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
29A          7-1-1956    TSO V 
30           8-19-1957   152.10;
                         TSO II
32           12-12-1961  114.01–
                         114.07
37           5-6-1963    91.01;
                         91.99
43           5-12-1969   152.10
49           9-14-1970   150.01–
                         150.05
50           9-14-1970   131.01–
                         131.03
51           8-2-1971    150.20–
                         150.23
52           4-9-1973    52.12
55           4-8-1974    152.10
57           2-12-1975   Ch. 71, Sch. IV
58           12-1-1975   TSO II
63           10-2-1978   91.01;
                         91.99
65           10-2-1978   70.99;
                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
66           10-16-1978  70.99;
                         Ch. 72, Sch. I
78           10-1-1979   Ch. 72, Sch. I
80           4-7-1980    150.04;
                         150.05
                         113.01–
83           8-4-1980    113.20;
                         113.99
85           2-2-1981    153.142
86           3-2-1981    Ch. 71, Sch. III
88           1-4-1982    Ch. 72, Sch. I
89           2-1-1982    TSO II
90           2-1-1982    91.01
91           9-13-1982   92.01;
                         92.99
92           10-4-1982   32.01–
                         32.11
                         33.01–
93           5-2-1983    33.06;
                         32.08–
                         32.11
94           7-2-1984    92.02;
                         92.99
96           9-10-1984   153.061;
                         153.064
97           11-13-1984  131.01
98           2-4-1985    TSO IV
100          6-3-1985    32.04
102          11-11-1985  TSO VI
                         153.061;
                         153.064;
103          5-5-1986    153.065;
                         153.115;
                         153.122
104          6-1-1987    TSO II
106          8-3-1987    TSO V 
108          9-1-1987    Ch. 72, Sch. I
111          3-7-1988    152.01–
                         152.15
112          3-7-1988    30.03
                         51.01–
114          11-7-1988   51.11;
                         Ch. 51, App. A
117          11-6-1989   51.08;
                         Ch. 51, App. A
118          6-4-1990    Ch. 71, Sch. II
119          12-3-1990   TSO IV
120          12-3-1990   TSO IV
123          7-1-1991    111.02;
                         111.99
124          7-1-1991    70.04;
                         70.99
126          7-1-1991    70.03;
                         70.99
128          7-6-1992    95.01–
                         95.07
132          10-4-1993   112.01–
                         112.19
138          9-11-1995   TSO V 
139          11-5-1995   Ch. 72, Sch. I
140          1-8-1996    111.01
142          7-1-1996    94.01 through
                         94.07
                         153.060;
144          7-7-1997    153.061;
                         153.064
145          8-4-1997    92.01;
                         92.99
                         153.001–
                         153.005;
                         153.020;
                         153.021;
                         153.035–
                         153.040;
                         153.055;
                         153.056;
                         153.058–
                         153.064;
146          3-2-1998    153.080–
                         153.082;
                         153.084–
                         153.086;
                         153.100;
                         153.101;
                         153.115;
                         153.117–
                         153.124;
                         153.140–
                         153.142;
                         153.999
                         130.01–
148          3-2-1998    130.07;
                         130.99
Res. 98-5    5-20-1998   TSO IV
149          6-1-1998    93.01–
                         93.11
150          10-5-1998   TSO II
                         153.003;
153          5-3-1999    153.061;
                         153.064
155          12-6-1999   92.15 through
                         92.20
154          3-20-2000   TSO III
156          3-20-2000   TSO III
157          1-8-2001    153.055
159          4-16-2001   Ch. 72, Sch. II
160          4-16-2001   Ch. 72, Sch. I
162          5-7-2001    Ch. 72, Sch. I
                         153.002;
                         153.062;
163          6-4-2001    153.087–
                         153.089;
                         153.100;
                         153.115
164          6-25-2001   TSO III
165          7-16-2001   TSO III
166          7-16-2001   91.01
173          4-1-2002    31.01
174          5-20-2002   70.99;
                         Ch. 71, Sch. I
175          12-2-2002   TSO IV
178          2-3-2003    TSO III
176          2-17-2003   151.01
177          2-17-2003   90.01
179          4-14-2003   TSO III
180          4-14-2003   110.01–
                         110.17
182          9-22-2003   32.04;
                         TSO VI
183          2-16-2004   TSO III
184          4-19-2004   32.05
185          8-16-2004   Ch. 72, Sch. I
186          9-20-2004   31.15–
                         31.19
187          9-20-2004   31.30–
                         31.34
189          4-4-2005    TSO III
192          2-20-2006   TSO II
191          6-19-2006   50.01–
                         50.11
193          11-20-2006  153.055
194          11-20-2006  30.02
195          1-8-2007    70.99;
                         Ch. 71, Sch. I
196          4-23-2007   32.04;
                         TSO VI
197          8-6-2007    70.02;
                         70.99
198          8-6-2007    70.01;
                         70.99
199          10-22-2007  TSO I
200          11-20-2007  30.01
201          12-17-2007  34.01–
                         34.05
202          4-21-2008   153.062;
                         153.126
204          10-20-2008  151.03;
                         151.99
                         153.155–
205          2-9-2009    153.164;
                         153.166
206          8-24-2009   153.003;
                         153.066
207          8-24-2009   Adopting Ordinance
208          11-9-2009   151.03
210          6-7-2010    91.01;
                         91.99
211          11-8-2010   52.01–
                         52.11
212          4-11-2011   153.062
213          5-9-2011    50.03
214          7-11-2011   TSO II
215          8-8-2011    151.04
216          5-7-2012    37.01 -
                         37.12
217          1-14-2013   37.08
218          1-14-2013   30.02
219          3-11-2013   153.060;
                         153.065
220          3-11-2013   52.13
                         10.10;
221          3-11-2013   153.021;
                         153.061;
                         153.064
222          5-14-2013   151.02
223          5-14-2013   151.20
                         Ch. 72, Schs. I;
225          7-9-2013    II;
                         153.100;
                         153.101
                         153.060;
226          7-9-2013    153.061;
                         153.064
227          11-12-2013  96.01 -
                         96.07
229          11-12-2013  96.01
                         153.003;
                         153.035 -
                         153.040;
                         153.055 -
                         153.067;
                         153.080 -
                         153.089;
230          12-9-2014   153.100;
                         153.101;
                         153.115 -
                         153.134;
                         153.140 -
                         153.143;
                         153.155 -
                         153.166;
                         153.999
216A         7-11-2017   TSO V
160A         11-14-2017  TSO V
Res. 2018-02 2-26-2018   TSO VI
—          5-15-2018   32.04
230-A        5-15-2018   TSO VI
92-A         3-12-2019   32.04
                         153.003;
Res.         6-11-2019   153.055;
                         153.062;
                         153.135
231          8-13-2019   TSO VI
Res. 2020    5-27-2020   TSO VI
—          6           TSO VI
Res. 2021-01 6-29-2021   TSO VI
                         153.001 -
                         153.005;
                         153.020;
                         153.021;
                         153.035 -
                         153.040;
                         153.055 -
                         153.067;
                         153.080 -
—          8-10-2021   153.089;
                         153.100;
                         153.101;
                         153.115 -
                         153.135;
                         153.140 -
                         153.143;
                          153.155 -
                         153.166;
                         153.999
Res. 2022-   4-18-2022   TSO VI
§ 90.01     1-10-2023   90.01
132          2-10-2023   132.01
Res. 2023-01 9-18-2023   TSO VI
Res. 2023-05 8-22-2023   TSO IV
                         153.003,
                         153.055,
Res.         3-25-2024   153.060,
                         153.061,
                         153.062,
                         153.065
                        
 
