BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES
AT THE TIME OF THIS RECODIFICATION
Mayor             Ted Gross
                  
Town Council
Council President Elizabeth ‘Liz’ Loper
Alderman          Jeff Duncan
Alderman          David White
Alderman          William Birch
Alderman          Holly Reitenauer
Town Attorney     Keith Davis
Town Manager      William H. Thrasher, ICMA-CM
Town Clerk        Sandi DuBose
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2-2016
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA, ENACTING A CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA, REVISING, AMENDING,
RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY; PROVIDING FOR SEVERABILITY; PROVIDING
FOR REPEAL; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Briny
Breezes are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Florida empower and
authorize the Town of Briny Breezes to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Briny Breezes has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Briny Breezes of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND ALDERMAN OF THE TOWN OF BRINY
BREEZES, FLORIDA:
   Section 1.   The Town of Briny Breezes hereby finds that the recitations
contained in the preamble hereof are true and correct and the same are
incorporated herein by reference as legislative findings of fact.
   Section 2.   The general ordinances of the Town of Briny Breezes as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Briny Breezes,
Florida."
   Section 3.   That the repeal provided for herein shall not be construed to
revive any Ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
Ordinance that is repealed by this Ordinance.
   Section 4.   That any and all additions or amendments to such Code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the Town Council to make
the same a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into such Code so
that reference to the "Code" or the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida", or similar references, shall be understood and intended to
include such additions and amendments.
   Section 5.   This Code of Ordinances as adopted herein shall consist of the
following Titles, as well as the Titles added, amended, or revised by the
future codification of Ordinances approved after Ordinance 3-2015, effective 8-
7-2015.
BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
CHARTER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   Employees and Officials
      32.   Elections
      33.   Meetings
      34.   Tax and Finance
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Water Shortage
      51.   Water and Sewer Rates
      52.   Sewer Code
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   Traffic Regulations
      71.   Traffic Infractions Administrative Hearings
      72.   Bicycles
      73.   Stopping, Standing, Parking
      74.   Impoundment of Vehicles
      75.   Golf Carts
      76.   Traffic Schedules
      77.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
      91.   Beaches
      92.   Fire Prevention and Protection
      93.   Streets and Sidewalks
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Alcoholic Beverages
      111.   Amusements
      112.   Telecommunications
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General
      131.   Offenses Against Property
      132.   Offenses Against Morals
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Coastal Construction
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Comprehensive Plan
      153.   Land Development Code
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Franchises
      III.   Agreements
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 6.   All ordinances prior to Ordinance 3-2015, effective 8-7-2015,
pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of this Ordinance except as they are
included and re-ordained in whole or in part in such Code; provided, such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of this Ordinance, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
Section 7.   This Ordinance codifies the Briny Breezes Code of Ordinances
through Ordinance 3-2015, passed on 8-7-2015. This Ordinance shall have no
effect on the validity of any Ordinance approved after Ordinance 3-2015.
Ordinances after Ordinance 3-2015 shall be included in subsequent codification
updates of the Briny Breezes Code.
Section 8.   This Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Briny Breezes is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of this Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 9.   This Code shall be in full force and effect as provided herein,
and this Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 10.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Town of Briny Breezes, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Section 11.   If any word, phrase, clause, section or portion of this Ordinance
or the codification shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion or words shall be deemed a separate and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Briny Breezes,
Florida, in regular session on first reading on August 18, 2016, and in special
session on second reading on September 8, 2016.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES
/s/ Michael Hill              /s/ Susan Thaler
MICHAEL HILL, MAYOR               PRESIDENT, SUSAN THALER
                         /s/ Christina Adams
(TOWN SEAL)                  ALDERMAN, CHRISTINA ADAMS
                         /s/ Allen Behringer
                        ALDERMAN, ALLEN BEHRINGER
                         /s/ Robert Jurovaty
                        ALDERMAN, ROBERT JUROVATY
                         /s/ James McCormick
                        ALDERMAN, JAMES McCORMICK
ATTEST:
/s/ Robert Jurovaty
ROBERT JUROVATY, Town Clerk Pro Tem
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND CORRECTNESS:
/s/ John J. R. Skrandel
JOHN J.R. SKRANDEL
Attorney For Town of Briny Breezes
CHARTER
PART I
ARTICLE I. - Creation, Restatement, Name, Municipal Seal,
Municipal Powers.
Sec. 1.1. - Creation, restatement.
   As set forth in the transcripts of the proceedings of March 19, 1963
pursuant to the actions taken by those freeholders and registered voters of the
area hereinafter described, and in accordance with Florida law, the
municipality known as the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida was lawfully
established. Said transcripts are kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk
and are appended to this Charter in Appendix "A". Pursuant to a vote of the
electors of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida on March 9, 2021, this Restated
Charter has been adopted as the Charter of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.
Note: The Transcripts from the March 19, 1963 proceedings served as the
original Charter of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, until the adoption of
this Restated Charter, approved by electors March 9, 2021.
Sec. 1.2. - Name.
   The name of the municipality is the "Town of Briny Breezes, Florida."
Sec. 1.3. - Municipal powers.
   The Government of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida shall have all
governmental, corporate, and proprietary powers to enable it to conduct
municipal government, perform municipal functions, and render municipal
services, and may exercise any power for municipal purposes except as otherwise
provided by law.
Sec. 1.4. - Municipal seal.
   The Municipal Seal of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida is described as a
circle with the words "Town of Briny Breezes" in the top half of the circle and
the word "Florida" in the bottom half of the circle, all lettering being white;
also with the image of a sailfish through the center of the circle, crossing
the circle with the bill of the sailfish extending through the right side of
the circle and the tail of the sailfish extending through the left side of the
circle.
ARTICLE II. - Corporate Limits.
Sec. 2.1. - Corporate limits.
   The legal description of the territorial limits of the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida, though not printed herein, is kept on file in the Office of
the Town Clerk and is appended to this Charter in Appendix "B."
Sec. 2.2. - Additional lands.
   The territorial limits of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, shall also
include any and all lands which may be annexed thereto from time to time as
provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Local Government Boundaries, Chapter 171, Florida Statutes.
ARTICLE III. - Government.
Sec. 3.1. - Town Council; Mayor; Aldermen.
   The government of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, shall be vested in a
governing body to be known as the "Town Council of the Town of Briny Breezes,
Florida." sometimes hereinafter referred to as the Town Council, composed of
six (6) elected officers, one of whom shall be called the Mayor, and the
remaining five (5) of whom shall be called Aldermen.
Sec. 3.2. - Eligibility to hold office on the Town Council.
   No person shall be eligible to serve as an elected officer of the Town of
Briny Breezes, Florida (Mayor and Aldermen) unless he or she is a citizen of
the United States, a registered voter in Palm Beach County, Florida eligible to
vote in Briny Breezes municipal elections, and a resident of the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida who resides at least six (6) months out of twelve (12) months
of each year in the Town of Briny Breezes and who is available to attend Town
Council meetings during said period.
Sec. 3.3. - Mayor and Alderman serve at large; Seats.
   The Mayor and Alderman shall all serve at large and may reside anywhere in
the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida. The five Aldermen shall hold one seat each
(seats one-through five) and the Mayor shall hold seat six. A candidate may
qualify for one elective seat only.
Sec. 3.4. - Qualifications of electors; conduct of elections; Elections to be
non-partisan and at-large.
   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, prescribe the qualifications of Town
electors. The Town Council shall also, by ordinance, regulate the conduct of
Town Council elections, which shall be conducted on a non-partisan basis
without regard for or designation of the political party affiliation of the
candidate. Elections shall be at large, by all town electors eligible to vote.
Sec. 3.5. - Term of office.
   The Mayor and Aldermen shall each be elected to serve for a period of two
(2) years and until their successors are elected and sworn, or as otherwise may
be provided by law. Alderman seats 1, 3 and 5 shall be elected in odd numbered
years. Alderman seats 2 and 4, along with the Mayor seat six, shall be elected
in even numbered years.
Sec. 3.6. - Regular municipal election dates.
   On the second Tuesday in March of each year, unless otherwise required by
the county supervisor of elections or by law, an election by qualified electors
of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida shall be held to elect a Mayor and/or
Aldermen to succeed the members whose election is provided for herein.
Sec. 3.7. - Appointment of Town Council President.
   The members of the Town Council elected shall meet for organization on the
first Tuesday following their election, and at said meeting shall be sworn in
and then shall appoint one Alderman as President of the Town Council, who shall
hold such office for a term of one year and until his or her successor shall be
appointed. The Town Council President shall preside over all Town Council
meetings but shall have no administrative duties except as required to carry
out the responsibilities stated herein.
Sec. 3.8. - Mayor.
   The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of Town government for ceremonial
purposes; for service of process upon the Town; for execution of contracts,
deeds and other documents; as the Town elected official designated to represent
the Town in all agreements with other governmental entities or certifications
to other governmental entities; and by the Governor for purposes of military
law. The Mayor shall have no administrative duties except as required to carry
out the responsibilities stated herein. The Mayor shall preside over Town
Council meetings in the absence of the Town Council President. The Mayor shall
not vote on any matter before the Town Council except to break a tie vote by
the Aldermen.
Sec. 3.9. - Compensation of elected officers.
   The Mayor and Aldermen of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida shall serve
without compensation.
Sec. 3.10. - Vacancies.
   The Town Council shall prescribe, by ordinance, procedures for filling a
vacancy in elected office caused by death, resignation, or removal from office;
and shall also prescribe, by ordinance procedures for filling a vacancy in
candidacy caused by death, withdrawal or removal from the ballot of a qualified
candidate following the end of the qualifying period which leaves fewer than
two candidates for an office.
Statutory reference:
   Charter Amendments, Sec. 166.031(6), Florida Statutes.
Sec. 3.11. - Meetings and procedures of the Town Council; Voting.
   The Town Council shall meet regularly and shall prescribe, by ordinance, the
times and places for such meetings. The Town Council shall also prescribe, by
ordinance, the procedures for calling special meetings and workshop meetings
and shall further prescribe, by ordinance, notice requirements for all Town
Council meetings. The Town Council shall determine its own rules of procedure;
however, all such rules shall conform with state law requirements for public
meetings and public participation. A majority of the voting Aldermen on the
Town Council shall constitute a quorum. No action of the Town Council, except
as otherwise provided herein or by law or by ordinance of the Town Council
shall be valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority
of the quorum present.
Statutory reference:
   Public Business, Chapter 286, Florida Statutes.
Sec. 3.12. - Removal/recall of elected officers.
   Any member of the Town Council, including the Mayor and all Aldermen, may be
removed from office in accordance with the procedures set forth at Sec.
100.361, Florida Statutes, as that section may be amended or revised from time
to time.
Statutory reference:
   Recall of Municipal Elected Officials, Sec. 100.361, Florida Statutes.
ARTICLE IV. - Administration.
Sec. 4.1. - Town administration defined.
   Town administration shall include a Town Manager, a Town Clerk and a Town
Attorney and such other personnel as may be provided for by this Charter,
Florida law or as prescribed by ordinance of the Town Council from time to
time.
Sec. 4.2. - Town Manager.
   The Town Manager shall be appointed and employed by the Town Council and
shall serve as the chief administrator of the Town under the supervision and
direction of the Town Council. The Town Manager shall be chosen by the Town
Council solely on the basis of his or her administrative and executive
qualifications. The Town Manager is not required to be a resident of the Town
of Briny Breezes. The Town Manager's powers and duties shall be as follows:
   (1)   To see that the laws and ordinances of the Town are enforced.
   (2)   To attend all meetings of the Town Council and of its committees, if
requested, with the right to take part in the discussion but without having a
vote, and to file a report of the Town Manager's actions during the preceding
month at each regular Town Council meeting.
   (3)   To recommend to the Town Council such measures as the Town Manager may
deem necessary or expedient in the interests of the Town, to keep the Town
Council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the Town, and
to submit for its consideration an annual budget.
   (4)   To appoint, direct, supervise and manage all Town employees, and when
deemed necessary in the best interest of the Town, to suspend or remove any
Town employee except as may otherwise be provided by law or ordinance of the
Town Council.
   (5)   To act as purchasing agent for the Town pursuant to applicable
procurement regulations; to enter into contracts on behalf of the Town for
goods and services within the purchasing limits for the Town Manager as may be
prescribed by ordinance of the Town Council; and to dispose of surplus property
pursuant to law or ordinance of the Town Council.
   (6)   To perform such other duties as the Town Council may direct.
Sec. 4.3. - Town Clerk.
   The Town Clerk shall be appointed and employed by the Town Manager and shall
function under the supervision and direction of the Town Manager. The Town
Clerk shall be chosen by the Town Manager solely on the basis of his or her
professional qualifications. The Town Clerk is not required to be a resident of
the Town of Briny Breezes. The Town Clerk's powers and duties shall be as
follows:
   (1)   To attend all meetings of the Town Council and of its committees, and
to keep a record of the proceedings of such meetings in a minutes book to be
provided and kept for that purpose. Copies from said minutes book, certified by
the Town Clerk under the corporate seal of the Town, shall be received in
evidence in all courts and places in proof thereof.
   (2)   To preserve and maintain an ordinance book for the recording and
preservation of all duly adopted ordinances; and to preserve and maintain a
resolution book for the recording and preservation of all duly adopted
resolutions. Copies from said ordinance or resolution book, certified by the
Town Clerk under the corporate seal of the Town, may be received in evidence in
all courts and places in proof thereof.
   (3)   To conduct all functions related to municipal elections in the Town
and serve as the Town's elections supervisor.
   (4)   To have custody of and keep the Town seal, as well as all Town
records, books, and documents.
   (5)   To administer oaths.
   (6)   To perform such other duties as the Town Manager may direct.
Sec. 4.4. - Town Attorney.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at the pleasure of
the Town Council and to act as legal advisor to the Town.
ARTICLE V. - Land Use.
Sec. 5.1. - Planning and zoning board.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Board whose general
duty shall be to periodically review the general overall welfare, design and
appearance of the town with regard to buildings, roads, utilities, storm and
sanitary sewers, improvements and all new projects of any nature. The Planning
and Zoning Board's specific composition and duties shall be further prescribed
by ordinance of the Town Council.
ARTICLE VI. - Transition Schedule.
Sec. 6.1. - Continuation of former Charter provisions.
   All provisions of the former Charter, described more particularly in Article
I above, which are not embraced herein and which are not inconsistent with this
Restated Charter shall become ordinances of the Town subject to modification or
repeal in the same manner as other ordinances of the Town.
Sec. 6.2. - Ordinances preserved.
   All ordinances in effect upon the adoption of this Restated Charter, to the
extent not inconsistent with it, shall remain in force until repealed or
changed as provided by law.
Sec. 6.3. - Rights of Officers and Employees.
   Nothing in this Restated Charter except as otherwise specifically provided
shall affect or impair the rights or privileges of persons who are Town
officers or employees at the time of adoption. Elected officers shall continue
to hold their offices and discharge the duties thereof until their successors
are elected and sworn.
Sec. 6.4. - Pending Matters.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative
proceedings involving the Town shall continue except as modified pursuant to
the provisions of this Restated Charter.
APPENDIX A
Editor’s note:
   Printed herein are the recorded proceedings creating the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida
   TRANSCRIPT OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING CREATING THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF
BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA
   It having been conclusively determined that there are 170 male and female
inhabitants, who are freeholders and registered voters of the area hereafter
described, the following proceedings were taken for the creation of a municipal
corporation, to-wit:
   In accordance with the provisions of Section 165.03 Florida Statutes of
1959, on the 15th day of February, 1963, a notice signed by registered voters
and freeholders aforesaid was posted in three places of public resort in the
immediate vicinage, and within the area hereinafter described, the places of
posting being the Briny Breezes Park Office, the Briny Breezes Park Club House
and the Briny Breezes Park Auditorium, requiring all persons, male and female,
who are freeholders and who are registered voters residing in the proposed
corporate limits, to assemble on the 19th day of March, 1963, at 10:00 o’clock
A. M. in the Briny Breezes Park Auditorium in Briny Breezes Park, in the
community known as Delray Beach, Florida, to select officers and organize a
municipal government, such notice and the affidavit of posting same as
aforesaid are herein set forth as follows:
   NOTICE TO ASSEMBLE AND ORGANIZE
   Notice is hereby given that on the 19th day of March, 1963, at 10:00 A. M.,
all persons, male and female, who are freeholders and who are registered voters
residing in the proposed corporate limits hereinafter described, are required
to assemble at the auditorium in the community now known as Briny Breezes to
select officers and organize a municipal government within the area of Palm
Beach County, Florida, described as follows, to-wit:
The south 609 feet of Government Lot 1 of Section 34, Township 45 South, Range
43 East; and all that part of the south 1469 feet of the W½ of the NW¼ of
Section 34, lying East of the center line of the Intracoastal Waterway,
together with all riparian and littoral rights thereunto belonging or in any
manner appertaining thereto; excepting therefrom the following:
   (a)   Beginning at a point in the westerly right of way line of State Road
No. A1A, as shown on plat on file in the office of the County Engineer of said
Palm Beach County, said westerly right of way line being parallel to, and 38
feet westerly from, the east line of the W½ of the NW¼ of said Section 34, and
said point of beginning being 1230.67 feet northerly, measured along said
westerly right of way line, from the south line of said W½ of the NW¼ of
Section 34, and 1364.99 feet southerly, measured along said westerly right of
way line, from the north line of said W½ of the NW¼ of Section 34; thence North
2°27'30" East, along said westerly right of way line (Note. For the purpose of
this description, the south line of said W½ of the NW¼ of Section 34, is
assumed to bear East and West; and all other bearings used herein are relative
thereto) a distance of 79.46 feet; thence West a distance of 82 feet; thence
south 2°27'30" west a distance of 193.80 feet; thence east a distance of 82
feet; thence north 2°27'30" east a distance of 9.29 feet; thence west a
distance of 77 feet; thence north 2°27'30" east a distance of 105.05 feet;
thence east a distance of 77 feet to the point of beginning;
   (b)   Beginning at a point in the westerly right of way line of State Road
No. A1A, as shown on plat on file in the office of the County Engineer of said
Palm Beach County, said westerly right of way line being parallel to, and 38
feet westerly from, the east line of the W½ of the NW¼ of said Section 34, and
said point of beginning being 1066.33 feet northerly, measured along said
westerly right of way line, from the south line of said W½ of the NW¼ of
Section 34, and 1529.33 feet southerly, measured along said westerly right of
way line, from the north line of said W½ of the NW¼ of said Section 34; thence
North 2°27'30" East, along said westerly right of way line (Note. For the
purpose of this description, the south line of said W½ of the NW¼ of Section
34, is assumed to bear East and West, and all other bearings used herein are
relative thereto) a distance of 50 feet; thence west a distance of 82 feet;
thence south 2°27'30" west a distance of 50 feet; thence east a distance of 82
feet to the point of beginning; and
   (c)   The easterly 100 feet of Lots 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240, 241, 242
and 243 (the westerly boundary of which land is a line parallel with and 100
feet west of the easterly boundary of said Lots 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240,
241, 242 and 243), less the easterly 28 feet thereof now constituting a part of
the right of way for State Road No. A1A, according to the plat of Briny Breezes
recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Palm Beach County,
Florida, in Plat Book 3 at page 46; and which is more particularly described as
follows: Beginning at a point in the westerly right of way line of State Road
No. A1A, as shown on plat on file in the office of the County Engineer of said
Palm Beach County, said westerly right of way line being parallel to, and 38
feet westerly from, the east line of the W½ of the NW¼ of said Section 34, and
said point of beginning being 605.13 feet northerly, measured along said
westerly right of way line, from the south line of said W½ of NW¼ of Section
34, and 1990.53 feet southerly measured along said westerly right of way line,
from the north line of said W½ of the NW¼ of Section 34; thence North 2°27'30"
East, along said westerly right of way line (Note. For the purpose of this
description, the south line of said W½ of the NW¼ of Section 34 is assumed to
bear East and West, and all other bearings used herein are relative thereto) a
distance of 240.20 feet; thence west a distance of 72 feet thence south
2°27'30" west a distance of 240.20 feet; thence east a distance of 72 feet to
the point of beginning.
   (d)   The East 105 feet of Lots 255, 256 and 257 and the North 19.97 feet of
the east 105 feet of Lot 254, BRINY BREEZES, a Subdivision in Palm Beach
County, Florida, according to the plat thereof recorded in the office of the
Clerk of the Circuit Court in and for Palm Beach County, Florida, in Plat Book
3, page 46.
   The foregoing notice to assemble and organize has been executed by the
undersigned freeholders and registered voters residing in the above described
proposed corporate limits this 15th day of February, 1963.
STATE OF FLORIDA
COUNTY OF PALM BEACH
On this day personally appeared before me, Hugh E. David, who having been first
duly sworn, deposes and says: That he posted in three (3) places of public
resort, to-wit: Briny Breezes Park Office, the Briny Breezes Park Club House,
and the Briny Breezes Park Auditorium, on the fifteenth day of February, 1963,
true copies of the above and foregoing notice to assemble and organize and that
said notices remained so posted until the nineteenth day of March, 1963.
/s/ Hugh E. David                /s/ Harry A. Nation
/s/ Guy Phelps               /s/ Herbert N. Kessman
/s/ William H. Sperry            /s/ Halleck O. Butts
/s/ Gilbert M. Eckert             /s/ Raymond Knaus
/s/ Arthur M. Harnish            /s/ Hubert N. Aiken
/s/ Valentine M. Bearson          /s/ Russell W. Besser
Sworn to and subscribed before me in the town of Briny Breezes this 5th day of
March, 1963.
                     /s/ E. Carpenter
                     Notary Public
                     My commission expires:
   At the time and place set forth in the above notice, there assembled 151
male and female inhabitants who are freeholders and registered voters within
the area above described, they being more than two-thirds of those whom it was
proposed to incorporate, whereupon the following proceedings took place:
   The meeting was called to order by Hugh David. Present on the stage with Mr.
David were Mr. Evans Crary, Sr., Attorney, of Stuart, Florida, and Mrs. Phyllis
Boykin, recording secretary.
   After Mr. Harry Nation was nominated as temporary chairman of the meeting, a
motion was made by Mr. Charles Leiter that the nominations be closed. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Louis Lorenzen. The motion was carried by unanimous
vote. Mr. Nation took the Chair.
   The notice to assemble and organize dated the 15th day of February, 1963,
was read by the recording secretary, Mrs. Phyllis Boykin.
   The Chairman, Mr. Nation, proposed to the freeholder inhabitants present
that the area of Briny Breezes Park be incorporated as a town. The proposal to
incorporate was carried by unanimous approval. The name of the Town was opened
for nominations. The name selected for the town is BRINY BREEZES, FLORIDA, by
unanimous approval.
   By a vote of 151 to nothing the following corporate seal was chosen, to-wit:
A circle with the name “Town of Briny Breezes, Florida” with the picture of a
sailfish thru the center, crossing the circle with the bill of the sailfish on
one end and the tail of the sailfish on the other.
   The following metes and bounds description was unanimously adopted as the
territorial limits of the corporation, to-wit:
   That part of the South 609 feet of Government Lot 1, Section 34, Township 45
South, Range 43 East, Palm Beach County, Florida, and that part of the South
1469 feet of the West half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section 34,
lying East of the center line of the Intracoastal Waterway with all riparian
and littoral rights thereunto belonging or in any manner appertaining thereto;
more particularly described as follows:
   BEGINNING at the intersection of the center line of the Intracoastal
Waterway, according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 17, Page 13A,
Public Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, with the westerly extension of
the center line of Cherokee Avenue as shown on the plat of Briny Breezes,
according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 3, Page 46, Public Records
of Palm Beach County, Florida, said center line of Cherokee Avenue being also
described as the north line of the South 1469 feet of the West half (W½) of the
Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section 34, Township 45 South, Range 43 East; thence
easterly along the center line of said Cherokee Avenue, a distance of 914.7
feet, more or less, to a point in the westerly line of Government Lot 1 of said
Section 34; thence southerly along said westerly line of Government Lot 1, a
distance of 859.9 feet, more or less, to a point in a line 609 feet north of
and parallel to the South line of said Government Lot 1; thence easterly along
said parallel line, a distance of 965 feet, more or less, to the high water
line along the shore of the Atlantic Ocean; thence southerly, meandering the
high water line along the shore of the Atlantic Ocean to a point in the South
line of said Government Lot 1 of said Section 34; thence westerly along the
South line of said Government Lot 1 and the westerly extension thereof, a
distance of 1924.8 feet, more or less, to a point in the center line of the
aforesaid Intracoastal Waterway; thence North 7°40'50" East along the center
line of said Intracoastal Waterway, a distance of 1483.11 feet to the point of
beginning;
   Excepting therefrom the following described parcels of land:
Parcel 1.
   Beginning at a point in the westerly right of way line of State Road No. A1A
according to the plat thereof recorded in Road Plat Book 1, Page 58, Public
Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, said westerly right of way line being
parallel to and 38 feet westerly from the East line of the West half (W½) of
the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of said Section 34, said point being also 1066.33
feet northerly, measured along said westerly right of way line from the South
line of said West half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section 34;
thence North 2°27'30" East, along said westerly right of way line (the south
line of said West half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section 34, is
assumed to bear East and West, and all other bearings used herein are relative
thereto), a distance of 243.80 feet;  thence West, a distance of 82 feet;
thence South 2°27'30" West, a distance of 243.80 feet; thence East, a distance
of 82 feet to the point of beginning.
AND:
Parcel 2.
   Beginning at a point in the westerly right of way line of State Road No. A1A
according to the plat thereof recorded in Road Plat Book 1, Page 58, Public
Records of Palm Beach County, Florida, said westerly right of way line being
parallel to and 38 feet westerly from the East line of the West half (W½) of
the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of said Section 34, said point also being 605.13
feet northerly, measured along said westerly right of way line, from the south
line of said West half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of said Section 34;
thence North 2°27'30" East, along said westerly right of way line, (the South
line of said West half (W½) of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼) of Section 34, is
assumed to bear East and West, and all other bearings used herein are relative
thereto) a distance of 240.20 feet; thence West, a distance of 72 feet; thence
South 2°27'30" West, a distance of 240.20 feet; thence East, a distance of 72
feet to the point of beginning.
   Mr. Nation asked Gilbert Eckert to act as Chairman Pro-Tem.
   After Mr. Eckert took the chair, the nominations were open for the office of
Mayor.
   Mr. Harry Nation nominated Mr. Hugh E. David. Motion was made by Herbert
Kessman that the nominations be closed. Motion was seconded by Mr. Henry C.
Nelson. Hugh E. David was elected Mayor by unanimous vote.
   Mr. Nation again resumed the chair.
   Mr. George Sanford made a motion that we hold the number of Aldermen elected
to no more than five in number. This motion was seconded by Mahlon Ogden. The
motion was carried by unanimous approval.
   The nominations were then opened for Aldermen, and the voting resulted in
the following men being elected as Aldermen:
Ray Knaus                      Harry Nation
Mahlon Ogden                   Halleck Butts
Gilbert Eckert
   Nominations were then open for the position of Town Marshal, and Richard
Rasure was elected as the Town Marshal by unanimous approval.
   Nominations were then opened for Town Clerk, and Mr. Russell Besser was
elected Town Clerk.
   There being no further business for consideration, the meeting of the
resident freeholders was thereupon adjourned.
   TRANSCRIPT OF PROCEEDINGS OF MEETING OF THE OFFICIALS OF THE TOWN OF BRINY
BREEZES, FLORIDA
   Mr. Hugh E. David, having being sworn in as Mayor of the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida, at 2 o’clock P. M. on the afternoon of March 19th, 1963, in
the office of Paul T. Douglas, County Judge, Palm Beach County, in the County
Court House, West Palm Beach, Florida, called a meeting of the elected
officials of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, for the purpose of swearing in
the officers.
   The meeting was held in the Board of Directors Room of the office of Briny
Breezes Inc. at 3:15 P. M., March 19th, 1963.
   Those present were:
      Mr. Harry Nation, Alderman
      Mr. Ray Knaus, Alderman
      Mr. Gilbert Eckert, Alderman
      Mr. Halleck Butts, Alderman
      Mr. Mahlon Ogden, Alderman
      Mr. Russell Besser, Town Clerk
      Mr. Richard Rasure, Town Marshal
      and
      Mrs. Phyllis Boykin, Recording Secretary
   Mr. Hugh David administered the oath of office to each of the above named
men individually.
   By secret ballot, it was determined that Aldermen Ray Knaus, and Halleck
Butts shall serve the two year term, while Aldermen Harry Nation, Gilbert
Eckert and Mahlon Ogden shall serve the one year term. The Mayor, Mr. Hugh
David, the Town Clerk, Mr. Russell Besser and the Town Marshal, Mr. Richard
Rasure, shall serve one year terms.
   Discussion was held on the forthcoming proceedings.
   There being no further business, Mr. Russell Besser made a motion that the
meeting be adjourned, which was seconded by Mr. Halleck Butts and carried by
unanimous approval. The meeting was so adjourned.
ATTEST:
/s/   Russell W. Besser
   Town Clerk
 
(CORPORATE SEAL)
 
/s/   Hugh E. David               /s/   Harry A. Nation
Mayor                      /s/   Mahlon H. Ogden
/s/ Halleck O. Butts                   /s/   Raymond Knaus
/s/ Gilbert M. Eckert                  Aldermen
Clerk’s Certificate
STATE OF FLORIDA          )
COUNTY OF PALM BEACH       )   ss:
TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES      )
   I, Rita L. Taylor, hereby certify that I am the duly appointed and acting
Town Clerk pro tem of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida; that the foregoing is
a true and correct copy of the Charter for the Town of Briny Breezes, the
original of which is on file in the Office of the Town Clerk pro tem of the
Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official
seal of said Town, this 29th day _____ of April A.D. 1994.
_____________________________
Rita L. Taylor
Town Clerk pro tem
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Briny Breezes shall
be designated as the “Briny Breezes Town Code”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Palm Beach County, Florida.
      F.S. The latest edition of the Florida Statutes.
      HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass or causeway in the town,
dedicated or devoted to public use.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural
and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, canal, waterway, beach, public
building or any place of business or assembly open to the public or frequented
by the public.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Florida.
      STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place,
square, bridge, viaduct, underpass, overpass, tunnel or causeway in the town,
dedicated or devoted to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
      TOWN or CITY. The Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.
      TOWN COUNCIL or THE COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Briny
Breezes, Florida.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1977 Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication, or that
expire on their own terms.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and all amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (F.S. § 943.14(4)) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see
F.S. §§ 119.01 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any other ordinance or resolution of the
town or in any rule, regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency
of the town under authority duly vested in him or her or it any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code
or any other ordinance or resolution of the town or such rule, regulation or
order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 60 days, or both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Except where otherwise provided, every day any violation of such code
or any other ordinance or resolution of the town or such rule, regulation or
order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for violations of municipal ordinances, see F.S. § 162.22
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ELECTIONS
      
33.   MEETINGS
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
35.   CODE ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Old-Age and Survivors Insurance
   
30.01   Extension of benefits
   
30.02   Exclusions
   
30.03   Execution of agreements by Mayor
   
30.04   Withholdings from wages
   
30.05   Contributions by town
   
30.06   Records and reports kept
   
30.07   Adoption of terms of Social Security Act
   
30.08   Town Manager designated as custodian of funds and reporting agent
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see
Chapter 32
   Traffic infractions administrative hearing, see
Chapter 71
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Home Rule Powers Act, see F.S. Ch. 166
OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE
§ 30.01 EXTENSION OF BENEFITS.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the town to extend
effective as of January 1, 1972, to the employees and officials thereof, not
excluded by law, nor excepted herein, the benefits of the system of Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and
amendments thereto; and by F.S. Ch. 650, and to cover by such plan all services
which constitute employment as defined in F.S. § 650.02, performed in the
employ of the town by employees and officials thereof.
(1977 Code, § 2-27) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   There is hereby excluded from this subchapter any authority to include in
any agreement entered into under § 30.17 any service, position, employee or
official now covered by or eligible to be covered by an existing retirement
system.
(1977 Code, § 2-28) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.03 EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the state agency, for the purpose of
extending the benefits provided by the system of Old-Age and Survivors
Insurance to the employees and officials of this town as provided in §§ 30.15
and 30.16, which agreement shall provide for such methods of administration of
the plan by the town as are found by the state agency to be necessary and
proper, and shall be effective with respect to services in employment covered
by such agreement performed on and after January 1, 1972.
(1977 Code, § 2-29) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.04 WITHHOLDINGS FROM WAGES.
   Withholdings from salaries, wages or other compensation of employees and
officials for the purpose provided in § 30.15 are hereby authorized to be made,
and shall be made, in the amounts and at such times as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the
state agency designated by the laws or regulations to receive such amounts.
(1977 Code, § 2-30) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.05 CONTRIBUTIONS BY TOWN.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds, derived from general
income which includes all income except restricted funds, such amounts at such
times, as may be required to pay promptly the contributions and assessments
required of the town as employer by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, which shall be paid over to the lawfully designated state agency
at the times and in the manner provided by law and regulation.
(1977 Code, § 2-31) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.06 RECORDS AND REPORTS KEPT.
   The town shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall adhere to the
regulations of the state agency.
(1977 Code, § 2-32) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.07 ADOPTION OF TERMS OF SOCIAL SECURITY ACT.
   The town does hereby adopt the terms, conditions, requirements,
reservations, benefits, privileges and other conditions there unto
appertaining, of Title II of the Social Security Act as amended, for and on
behalf of all officers and employees of its departments and agencies to be
covered under the agreement
(1977 Code, § 2-33) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
§ 30.08 TOWN MANAGER DESIGNATED AS CUSTODIAN OF FUNDS AND REPORTING AGENT.
   The Town Manager is hereby designated the custodian of all sums withheld
from the compensation of officers and employees and of the appropriated funds
for the contribution of the town, and the Town Manager is hereby made the
withholding and reporting agent and charged with the duty of maintaining
personnel records for the purposes of this section.
(1977 Code, § 2-34) (Ord. 1-72, passed 3-23-1973)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Judge Ad Litem; Mayor
   
31.02   Town Clerk
   
31.03   Town Manager
§ 31.01 JUDGE AD LITEM; MAYOR.
   During the absence, disability or disqualification of the Mayor to act as
Municipal Judge of the town, the President of the Town Council shall appoint a
Judge Ad Litem to act as Judge in the place and stead of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2-65, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that the facts contained in the preamble of the
ordinance codified herein are true and correct and they are incorporated herein
by reference as legislative findings of fact.
   (B)   The salary and benefits for the office of Town Clerk, together with
the manner of payment, shall be set by resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council is authorized to appoint a Town Clerk Pro Tem
whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Town Clerk. The Town Clerk Pro Tem
so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the term of the vacant office
until the next regular election, or until a subsequent vacancy in said office
occurs by reason of the resignation or the inability of the appointee to
continue to so serve in such capacity. Upon appointment, the Town Clerk Pro Tem
shall fulfill and perform all the duties and obligations of the office of Town
Clerk, and shall be entitled to receive the emoluments of office fixed for the
office of Town Clerk.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the office of Town Clerk shall
include the following:
      (1)   To serve as Clerk of the Town Council and perform such clerical and
business services of the town according to the duties and obligations of said
position as required by law;
      (2)   To keep the records of the Council and be responsible for the
recording, filing, indexing and safekeeping of all proceedings of the Council
and the other boards, commissions and agencies of the town;
      (3)   To maintain the books, records and financial accounts of the town
as the town’s bookkeeper;
      (4)   To prepare estimates of revenue and expenditures and give other
assistance in the preparation of the town’s annual budgets;
      (5)   To be in attendance as the Clerk at all Council meetings and to
maintain an accurate journal of al Council proceedings;
      (6)   To prepare the agenda for Council meetings under the supervision
and direction of the Town Council;
      (7)   To arrange for the publication of all ordinances, resolutions,
public notices an all other documents required to be published by law or by the
direction of the Town Council;
      (8)   To be the custodian of all contracts, deeds, ordinances,
resolutions, journals, records and documents of the town and to keep and
maintain a current and accurate record thereof;
      (9)   To be responsible for and assist in the codification of the code or
ordinances of the town;
      (10)   To be the registrar of electors and responsible for the orderly
and efficient conduct of the town elections; and
      (11)   To perform such other duties which are assigned by the Town
Council.
   (E)   Whenever necessary for the timely and efficient operation of the town
business and affairs, the Town Council is authorized to appoint one or more
Deputy Town Clerks to assist the Town Clerk or Town Clerk Pro Tem in the
performance of the duties and obligations of the office, and to provide the
means and manner for compensation of appointees to the position of Deputy Town
Clerk.
   (F)   The Town Council shall appropriate sufficient funds in the annual
budget to defray the costs and expense necessarily incurred by the Town Clerk
in providing the aforesaid clerical and business services to the town.
   (G)   This section shall take effect on October 23, 2008.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 10-23-2008; Ord. 7-2016, passed 12-22-2016)
§ 31.03 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Creation of position. 
      (1)   There is hereby created the position of Town Manager who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Town Council. The Town Manager shall be
responsible to the Town Council for the administration of all town affairs
placed in his or her charge by or under any state statute, town ordinance, town
resolution, or town contract. In the absence of any specific direction in any
ordinances, resolutions, or from the Town Council, the President of the Town
Council may direct the Town Manager to perform such duties as are necessary for
the proper functioning of the town until the next meeting of the Town Council
where the Council may consider such direction and approve or disapprove of
such.
      (2)   During the term of the agreement, the Town Manager shall not be a
member of the Town Council, an elected official, nor a member of any committee,
board, advisory group, or other body serving the Town of Briny Breezes or
appointed by the Town Council. If the Town Manager applies to run for any
elected office, whether within the Town of Briny Breezes or elsewhere, he or
she shall be deemed to have terminated this agreement as of the date and time
of the filing of their notice or application for office.
      (3)   In the absence or incapacity of the Town Manager or, if there be no
Town Manager, the Town Clerk and the members of the Town Council shall perform
the duties otherwise performed by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Town Manager shall have the skill, knowledge,
experience, education, and other qualifications as the Town Council deems fit.
   (C)   Appointment and removal. The Town Council shall appoint the Town
Manager by resolution. Said appointment shall be by a majority vote of the Town
Council at any meeting at which a quorum of the Council is present. The Town
Manager shall begin their duties only after they have executed a written
agreement for services approved by Town Council resolution.
      (1)   The Town Manager contract shall particularly and specifically
describe the following:
         (a)   That the Town Manager serves at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
         (b)   Beginning and ending dates of the agreement for services, any
extensions thereof, and how the extensions are exercised.
         (c)   All remuneration and the frequency of payment.
      (2)   Regardless of any provision to the contrary in the agreement
between the Town Council and the Town Manager, the following shall apply to the
Town Manager position in addition to being made an express part of the
agreement, whether or not the agreement actually recites these provisions:
         (a)   Removal of the Town Manager shall be by a majority vote of the
Town Council at any meeting at which a quorum of the Council is present.
         (b)   The Town Council may remove the Town Manager for any reason or
for no reason at all. If removed, the Town Council shall designate the date on
which the removal shall be effective. If the Town Council fails to designate
the exact date the removal is to be effective, the Town Manager's removal shall
be effective immediately.
         (c)   In the case of removal, the Town Council may, by resolution,
provide for the Town Manager to receive a severance of up to one week's pay or
any amount less than that sum, but no more. If the resolution is silent on this
matter, the Town Manager shall not be entitled to nor paid any severance.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Town Manager shall be:
      (1)   To attend all meetings of the Town Council and provide a report on
the state of the town and the Town Manager's duties.
      (2)   To attend all other town meetings as directed in support of the
town's interests and affairs.
      (3)   To see that the laws and ordinances and resolutions are fairly and
evenly enforced.
      (4)   To perform all other duties required by the town code and any other
ordinance or resolution of the Town Council and state law.
      (5)   To perform any and all other duties as directed by the President of
the Town Council from time to time that are not contrary to or in conflict with
the state or federal law, town ordinances, town resolutions, or direction from
the Town Council.
      (6)   To supervise, advise, and assist all departments and employees of
the town.
      (7)   To report to the Town Council his or her recommendations as to the
appointment and discharge of all town employees, but the hiring and termination
of all town employees shall be made by the Town Council.
      (8)   To recommend to the Town Council for adoption such measures as he
or she may deem necessary or advisable.
      (9)   To transfer certain town funds between and among the Town Council-
established FDIC insured accounts from time to time, in the town’s best
interests.
(Ord. 2-2017, passed 9-28-2017; Res. 2020-12, passed 10-22-2020)
CHAPTER 32: ELECTIONS
Section
   
32.01   State election laws
   
32.02   Permanent single registration system
   
32.03   Use of system by town
   
32.04   Precinct
   
32.05   Qualification of electors
   
32.06   Dates for holding elections
   
32.07   No primary elections for town candidates
   
32.08   Arrangements for elections
   
32.09   Town Election Canvassing Board; inspectors and clerks; Supervisor of
Elections
   
32.10   Notice of election
   
32.11   Additional requirements for special elections
   
32.12   Candidates for town office
   
32.13   Candidate information to Supervisor of Elections
   
32.14   Canvass of returns; certificate of election
   
32.15   Determination of election results
   
32.16   Date for taking office
   
32.17   Unopposed candidate on ballot
   
32.18   Death, withdrawal or removal of a candidate
   
32.19   Vacancy in candidacy
   
32.20   Filling an office due to vacancy in candidacy
   
32.21   Oath of office
   
32.22   Filling a vacancy in an incumbent’s office
§ 32.01 STATE ELECTION LAWS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided under this chapter, all town elections
shall be conducted pursuant to the Florida Election Code, consisting of F.S.
Ch. 97 through 106, inclusive, and such Special Acts of Florida as may be
applicable.
   (B)   The ballots in town elections shall conform as nearly as possible to
the form of ballot prescribed by the general election law of the state, and
requirements of the Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections.
   (C)   The general law in regard to absentee ballots and mail-in ballots
shall apply to all absentee ballots and mail-in ballots for elections within
the town, which ballots shall be issued by the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections.
   (D)   The town hereby exercises its right to exempt itself from the
applicable provisions of F.S. § 101.657, of the Florida Election Code, which
relates to and provides for the methods and procedures for early voting in
elections. The town shall not provide for early voting in its municipal
elections.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 4-04, passed 1-27-2005; Ord. 03-2021, passed
10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.02 PERMANENT SINGLE REGISTRATION SYSTEM.
   A permanent single registration system for the registration of electors to
qualify them to vote in all town elections is hereby established to conform to
the requirements of F.S. Ch. 98, as hereinafter revised and amended. Electors
in town elections shall be registered pursuant to this system by the Palm Beach
County Supervisor of Elections. Electors so registered shall not thereafter be
required to register or re-register, except as provided by law.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.03 USE OF SYSTEM BY TOWN.
   (A)   The Palm Beach County Board of County Commissioners, with the
concurrence of the Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections, may arrange the
boundaries of the town's election precinct to conform to the boundaries of the
town, subject to the concurrence of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections shall deliver the
records required for a town election to the Town Council on a timely basis
before the election and collect them promptly after the election is completed.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.04 PRECINCT.
   There shall be one precinct for the town, which shall consist of the entire
town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.05 QUALIFICATION OF ELECTORS.
   Every citizen of the United States who is at least 18 years of age, who is a
legal resident of the state, of the county, and of the town at the time of the
holding of a town election, who is registered pursuant to the Florida Election
Code, and who is otherwise qualified to vote under the laws of the state, shall
be authorized to vote at such town election.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.06 DATES FOR HOLDING ELECTIONS.
   Regular town elections shall be held each year on the second Tuesday in
March, except for the town's municipal election in 2016 and in each subsequent
year that is a multiple of four if the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections schedules the municipal elections to be on the same date as the state
presidential preference primary. In those years wherein the Palm Beach County
Supervisor of Elections schedules the municipal elections to be on the same
date as the state presidential preference primary, the regular town election
shall be held on the election date designated by the Palm Beach County
Supervisor of Elections. In any year wherein the scheduling of the state
presidential preference primary does not cause the Palm Beach County Supervisor
of Elections to change the schedule of the municipal election date, the regular
town election shall be held as usual, on the second Tuesday in March. Special
town elections shall be held whenever required by law, or as deemed necessary
pursuant to a resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-7-2015; Ord. 03-2021,
passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.07 NO PRIMARY ELECTIONS FOR TOWN CANDIDATES.
   No primary elections shall be required to determine candidates for any
elective office of the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.08 ARRANGEMENTS FOR ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall make all arrangements necessary for holding all
town elections, and shall declare the results thereof.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections to perform, authenticate and certify the logic and accuracy test for
the election machines and equipment assigned for use in all elections held
within the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.09 TOWN ELECTION CANVASSING BOARD; INSPECTORS AND CLERKS; SUPERVISOR OF
ELECTIONS.
   (A)   A Town Election Canvassing Board, consisting of the Canvassing Board
established by Palm Beach County, consisting of the Palm Beach County
Supervisor of Elections, the Mayor of Palm Beach County, and one circuit court
judge from the 15th Judicial Circuit, or their designees, shall be the
canvassing board for the town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections to distribute, count and canvass the town's absentee ballots and
mail-in ballots cast in all elections held within the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.10 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall issue a proclamation calling any general and
special election, except as herein otherwise provided, stating therein the date
for the election, where the same shall be held, naming the offices and
vacancies to be filled or questions to be decided, the dates fixed for
qualifying for office, and the dates fixed for filing campaign expense
statements.
   (B)   The Town Clerk or designee shall cause the same to be posted not less
than 30 days prior to the beginning of qualifying for the election, in two
public places in the town.
   (C)   The Town Clerk or designee shall deliver a copy of the notice of
election to the Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections.
   (D)   The Town Clerk or designee shall publish the notice of election once
in a newspaper of general circulation, to appear not less than ten days prior
to the beginning of the qualifying period for the election.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.11 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall not set the date for any special election
without obtaining prior consent from the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections that such date is available and that the Palm Beach County Supervisor
of Elections is available to canvass such special election as required by F.S.
§ 100.151.
   (B)   The Town Clerk or designee shall publish notice of the special
election in a newspaper of general circulation, to first appear at least 30
days prior to the election. The publication shall be made at least twice, once
in the fifth week and once in the third week prior to the week in which the
election is to be held.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.12 CANDIDATES FOR TOWN OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   Town Council. Any qualified elector may become a candidate for a
Town Council Alderman seat to be filled at any election by filing a written
application with the Town Clerk or designee, stating that: he or she intends to
be a candidate for an Alderman seat at such election; the seat number (Alderman
- seats one through five) of the office sought; that he or she is qualified
under the Constitution and laws of the state and the laws and ordinances of the
town to hold the office sought; that he or she has not violated any of the laws
of the state or the town relating to elections or registration of voters; and
requesting that his or her name be placed upon the ballot for the office of
Alderman seat number being sought. Such application shall be signed and sworn
to by the candidate before a notary public or other officer authorized to
administer oaths.
      (2)   Mayor. Any qualified elector may become a candidate for the office
of the Town Mayor by filing with the Town Clerk or designee, all of the
following:
         (a)   Completed candidate petition forms (current version of Form DS-
DE 104) executed by at least 20 electors of the town, requesting the name of
the proposed candidate be placed on the ballot for the office of Town Mayor to
be voted on at the next general or special election at which the office of
Mayor will be elected.
         (b)   Completed written application stating that: he or she intends to
be a candidate at such election; the title of the office sought (Mayor- seat
six); that he or she is qualified under the Constitution and laws of the state
and the laws and ordinances of the town to hold the office sought; that he or
she has not violated any of the laws of the state or the town relating to
elections or registration of voters; and requesting that his or her name be
placed upon the ballot. Such application shall be signed and sworn to by the
candidate before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer
oaths.
         (c)   Payment of the applicable verification fee to the Palm Beach
County Supervisor of Elections for the cost of verifying each petition form
signature shall be made by the town on behalf of the candidate(s).
   (B)   The candidate's application shall be filed with the Town Clerk or
designee no earlier than noon on the second Tuesday in November, nor later than
noon on the fourth Tuesday in November preceding the calendar year in which the
election is to be held.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 3-2015, passed 8-7-2015; Ord. 6-2016, passed
12-22-2016; Ord. 3-2017, passed 11-30-2017; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021;
Ord. 05-2022, passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.13 CANDIDATE INFORMATION TO SUPERVISOR OF ELECTIONS.
   The Town Clerk or designee shall provide the names of all candidates and the
offices for which they have filed with the Palm Beach County Supervisor of
Elections no later than 5:00 p.m. on the first Friday following the end of the
qualifying period.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.14 CANVASS OF RETURNS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   The result of the voting when ascertained and certified by the Town Election
Canvassing Board, shall be delivered to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall,
not later than noon of the second day after receipt of the certified results of
the election, furnish a certificate of election to each person shown to have
been elected.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.15 DETERMINATION OF ELECTION RESULTS.
   (A)   The person receiving the highest number of votes for the office sought
shall be declared to be elected to the office. Upon receipt of the certified
results of the election from the Town Clerk, the Town Council shall declare the
results at a public meeting to be held the first Tuesday thereafter.
   (B)   A tie between two or more candidates for an office shall be decided by
lot to be conducted by the Town Clerk.
   (C)   No run-off elections shall be required to determine which candidates
are elected to town office.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.16 DATE FOR TAKING OFFICE.
   Candidates elected to town office by the electorate shall assume the duties
of their office on the first Tuesday following certification of their election.
Candidates appointed to town office by the Town Council shall assume their
duties immediately, or as provided by their appointment.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.17 UNOPPOSED CANDIDATE ON BALLOT.
   Whenever only one qualified candidate appears on the ballot for election to
an office, whether due to non-opposition for that office or caused by the
death, withdrawal or removal of an opposing candidate from the ballot, the sole
candidate shall be declared automatically elected, and no election for that
office shall be required.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.18 DEATH, WITHDRAWAL OR REMOVAL OF A CANDIDATE.
   (A)   In the event of the death, withdrawal or removal from the ballot of a
qualified candidate following the end of the qualifying period, that
candidate’s name shall be stricken from the ballot provided for that election.
The stricken candidate’s name shall not be printed or be on the ballot or be
shown as a candidate on any voting papers. If the ballot cannot be changed, any
votes for that candidate’s name shall be null and void.
   (B)   If such omission leaves only one qualified candidate on the ballot for
that office, that candidate shall be an unopposed candidate and declared
automatically elected and no election for that office shall be required.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.19 VACANCY IN CANDIDACY.
   A vacancy in candidacy shall exist when no candidate has applied and
qualified to be on the ballot for that office, or as the result the death,
withdrawal or removal from the ballot of all qualified candidates following the
end of the qualifying period. Whenever there is no qualified candidate on the
ballot for an office, that office shall be declared vacant on the ballot for
that election.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021)
§ 32.20 FILLING AN OFFICE DUE TO VACANCY IN CANDIDACY.
   At its first meeting after the election, the Town Council shall declare any
office that was left unfilled due to a vacancy in candidacy to be a vacant
office. The Council, by plurality vote, shall appoint a qualified elector to
fill that vacancy for the full term of that office.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.21 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Before undertaking their official duties, those elected or appointed
to town office shall take an oath of office in substantially the following
form:
   “I, (name), do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support, protect and
defend the constitution and government of the United States and of the State of
Florida against all enemies, domestic or foreign, and that I will bear true
faith, loyalty and allegiance to the same, and that I am entitled to hold
office under the constitution; that I will faithfully perform all the duties of
the office of (title) of the Town of Briny Breezes on which I am about to
enter. So help me God.”
   (B)   Thereupon those so elected or appointed shall be considered to assume
the functions and powers of their office and to enter upon their several duties
as said officers of the town.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
§ 32.22 FILLING A VACANCY IN AN INCUMBENT’S OFFICE.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs in any office due to the death, resignation or
removal from office of an incumbent official, the Town Council, by plurality
vote, shall appoint a qualified elector to fill that vacancy for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (B)   Each Alderman shall be qualified to vote to fill any vacancy in a town
office at any regular meeting of the Town Council or at any special meeting
called for that purpose.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 9-23-1998; Ord. 03-2021, passed 10-28-2021; Ord. 05-2022,
passed 9-22-2022)
CHAPTER 33: MEETINGS
Section
Special Meetings; Request by Mayor or Town Council Member
   
33.01   Request for special meeting when Town Council is not in session
   
33.02   Information required for special meeting request
   
33.03   Duties of Town Clerk and Council members
   
33.04   Public notice of special meetings
   
33.05   Preparation and distribution of agenda for special meeting
Special Meetings; Organizations Other than Town Council; Request by Member
   
33.20   Request for special meeting when a town organization is not in session
   
33.21   Information required for a special meeting request
   
33.22   Duties of the Town Clerk and members of the organization
   
33.23   Public notice of special meetings
   
33.24   Preparation and distribution of agenda for special meeting
 
   
33.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Council request form
   
Appendix B:   Other board request form
SPECIAL MEETINGS; REQUEST BY MAYOR OR TOWN COUNCIL MEMBER
§ 33.01 REQUEST FOR SPECIAL MEETING WHEN TOWN COUNCIL IS NOT IN SESSION.
   Whenever the Town Council is not in session, the Mayor or an Alderman of the
town may request that a special meeting of the Town Council be convened by
signing and dating a written request therefor and delivering the request to the
Town Clerk for immediate presentation to the remaining Council members. An
example of a form that may be used by a Council member to request a special
meeting is set forth in
Appendix A to this chapter, which
Appendix A is made and declared to be a part of this enactment.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
§ 33.02 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR SPECIAL MEETING REQUEST.
   A request for a special meeting of the Town Council by the Mayor or an
Alderman shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The request shall specify the type of special meeting the Council
members are being asked to attend, such as an official meeting of the Town
Council, or a Council workshop session, or a Local Planning Agency meeting or
workshop session, or some other type of assembly.
   (B)   The request shall state the reason, purpose or subject matter for
which the special meeting is being called, and the business to be transacted at
the special meeting shall be limited to those matters that are reasonably
included therein.
   (C)   If the need for the meeting arises from an emergency that requires the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety or general welfare,
an explanation of the nature of the emergency shall be included in the request.
   (D)   The request shall state the place, date and time at which the meeting
is to be held.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
§ 33.03 DUTIES OF THE TOWN CLERK AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the request for a special meeting, the Town Clerk
shall promptly present the request to the remaining members of the Town Council
to obtain their individual consent or rejection thereof. If the Clerk is unable
to contact any Council members due to their absence or for other cause, the
Clerk shall such enter such explanation on the request form in lieu of that
member’s signature.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Town Clerk, each of the remaining Council
members, without discussion among themselves, shall promptly enter his or her
approval or disapproval on the special meeting request, sign and date the
request, and return it to the Town Clerk for further processing. The Mayor, who
is eligible to initiate a special meeting request but does not have the right
to vote thereon, shall sign and date the request to acknowledge receipt
thereof.
   (C)   After obtaining the response from the remaining Council members, the
Town Clerk shall promptly tally the results of the votes cast, enter the
results on the request form, and advise the Council members accordingly. The
Clerk shall inform the public of the results by posting a true copy of the
completed request in the manner as hereinafter provided, which posting shall
serve as public notice of the meeting to be so convened.
   (D)   The completed request for the special meeting, containing the
responses of the Council members and the Clerk’s tally of the Council members
vote thereon, is an official public record of the town and shall be retained by
the Town Clerk as part of the minutes of the Town Council meetings.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
§ 33.04 PUBLIC NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council calls for a special meeting, the Town Clerk shall
post public notice thereof at least three days prior to the date of the
meeting, except for special meetings called due to an emergency that requires
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety or general
welfare, which meetings shall be convened without complying with the aforesaid
delay.
   (B)   The public notice shall state the date, time and place of the meeting
and the purpose for which such meeting is called. The notice shall be posted at
the entrance to the town hall and at two other prominent public places within
the town in a manner that the notice is clearly visible to the public from the
exterior thereof.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
§ 33.05 PREPARATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AGENDA FOR SPECIAL MEETING.
   The Town Clerk, together with the assistance of the Town Attorney as may be
required, shall prepare and distribute an agenda for each special meeting of
the Town Council. The Town Clerk shall promptly deliver a copy of the agenda to
the members of the Town Council and interested parties and post a copy of the
agenda in the same manner as provided for giving public notice of meetings. The
Town Clerk shall provide additional copies of the agenda for the public as may
be reasonably required. No business shall be transacted at a special meeting
other than that which is stated in the public notice thereof.
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
SPECIAL MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONS OTHER
THAN TOWN COUNCIL; REQUEST BY MEMBER
§ 33.20 REQUEST FOR SPECIAL MEETING WHEN A TOWN ORGANIZATION IS NOT IN SESSION.
   Whenever a board, commission, committee, agency and other organization of
the town is not in session, a member of that organization may request an
assembly and call for the convening of a special meeting of the organization
when it is not in session by signing and dating a written request therefor and
delivering the request to the Town Clerk for immediate presentation to the
organization’s remaining members. A sample form that may be used by the member
of such organization to request a special meeting is set forth in Appendix B,
which Appendix is made and declared to be a part of this enactment.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
§ 33.21 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR A SPECIAL MEETING REQUEST.
   A request for a special meeting of a board, commission, committee, agency
and any other organization of the town by a member thereof shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The request shall specify the type of special meeting the members of
the organization are being asked to attend, such as an official meeting of the
organization, or a workshop session or some other type of assembly that is
adequately described;
   (B)   The request shall state the reason, purpose or subject matter for
which the special meeting is being called, and the business to be transacted at
the special meeting shall be limited to those matters that are reasonably
included therein;
   (C)   If the need for the meeting arises from an emergency that requires the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety or general welfare,
an explanation of the nature of the emergency shall be included in the request;
and
   (D)   The request shall state the place, date and time at which the meeting
is to be held.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
§ 33.22 DUTIES OF THE TOWN CLERK AND MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the request for a special meeting, the Town Clerk
shall promptly present the request to the remaining members of the said
organization to obtain their individual consent or rejection thereof. If the
Clerk is unable to contact any members due to their absence or for other cause,
the Clerk shall such enter such explanation on the request form in lieu of that
member’s signature.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the request for meeting from the Town Clerk, each of
the remaining members of the said organization, without discussion among
themselves, shall promptly enter his or her approval or disapproval on the
meeting request form, sign and date the request form, and return it to the Town
Clerk for further processing. The signature of the member initiating the
request for a special meeting shall signify that member’s consent and vote to
convene the assembly.
   (C)   After obtaining the responses from the remaining members of the said
organization, the Town Clerk shall promptly tally the results of the votes
cast, enter the results on the request form, and advise the organization’s
members accordingly. The Clerk shall inform the public of the results by
posting a true copy of the completed request in the manner as hereinafter
provided, which posting shall serve as public notice of the meeting to be so
convened.
   (D)   The completed request for the special meeting, containing the
responses of the organization’s members and the Clerk’s tally of the members
vote thereon, is an official public record of the town and shall be retained by
the Town Clerk as part of the minutes of that organization’s meetings.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
§ 33.23 PUBLIC NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Whenever an organization of the town has successfully completed a call
for a special meeting, the Town Clerk shall post public notice thereof at least
three days prior to the date of the meeting, except for special meetings called
due to an emergency that requires the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, safety or general welfare, which meetings shall be convened
without complying with the aforesaid delay.
   (B)   The public notice shall state the date, time and place of the
organization’s meeting and the purpose for which such meeting is called. The
notice shall be posted at the entrance to the Town Hall and at two other
prominent public places within the town in such a manner that the notice is
clearly visible to the public.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
§ 33.24 PREPARATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AGENDA FOR SPECIAL MEETING.
   The Town Clerk, together with the assistance of the Town Attorney, as may be
required, shall prepare and distribute an agenda for each special meeting of a
town organization. The Clerk shall promptly deliver a copy of the agenda to the
members of the organization and make it available to interested parties, and
shall post a copy of the agenda in the same manner as provided for giving
public notice by § 33.23. The Clerk shall provide additional copies of the
agenda for the public as may be reasonably required. No business shall be
transacted at a special meeting other than that which is stated in the public
notice thereof.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this §§
33.20 through
33.24, upon conviction thereof, may be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed
$100 as determined within the discretion of the Court. Any act which is a
violation of §§
33.20 through
33.24, and which, by its nature, is continuous shall be deemed a separate
violation for each day such violation exists.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
APPENDIX A: COUNCIL REQUEST FORM COUNCIL MEMBER’S REQUEST FOR A SPECIAL MEETING
OF THE BRINY BREEZES TOWN COUNCIL
   The undersigned Council Member of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, hereby
requests that a (Check One) [ ] Special Meeting [ ] Special Workshop Session
[ ] Other Assembly (Specify)
_______________________________________________________________ of the members
of the Briny Breezes Town Council be called to order and held at (Check One)
[ ] Briny Breezes Town Hall, 4802 North Ocean Boulevard, Briny Breezes,
Florida, or, if other, check and specify [ ]
_________________________________________ on (date and time)
_______________________. This Special Council Meeting is requested for the
following reason, purpose, or subject manner:
   The signature of an Alderman to this request signifies that Council member’s
vote agreeing to convene the Special Meeting.
Signed:                        Date:               
      Member of the Town Council
Title:
NOTICE TO THE TOWN CLERK FOR DELIVERY TO THE
OTHER REMAINING MEMBERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL
   THE TOWN CLERK IS DIRECTED to proceed without delay to present this request
to the other remaining members of the Briny Breezes Town Council who are
present and available to vote thereon. Upon receipt of this request, the
Council members, without discussion among themselves, shall promptly signify
their agreement or disagreement therewith, sign their names in the spaces
provided, and return this request to the Town Clerk for further processing.
When the response from the remaining Council members of has been completed, the
Town Clerk shall promptly tally the votes and inform the Council members of the
results. If a plurality of the Town Aldermen vote in agreement with the request
for meeting, the meeting of the Town Council shall be held as requested, but
not otherwise. Whenever a meeting request is approved, the Town Clerk shall
promptly post a true copy of the completed request form as the public notice
thereof.
Council Member Name   Signature       Date         Vote
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Warren Bailey, President
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Lawrence Bray
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Sharon Kendrigan
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Dennis Smith
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Janet Zerull
_________________________________   ____________   TO ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT
Roger Bennett, Mayor                     OF INFORMATION ONLY
 
   CERTIFICATE BY TOWN CLERK
   I HEREBY CERTIFY that I have presented this Request for Special Council
Meeting to the Members of the Town Council who have signed, dated and endorsed
their responses thereto, and by tally of their votes, the members of the Town
Council have decided that they
   (Check One) [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
with the above request for Special Meeting as submitted.
                                              
Nancy Boczon, Town Clerk of the               Date
Town of Briny Breezes
(Ord. 7-07, passed 12-20-2007)
APPENDIX B: OTHER BOARD REQUEST FORM
REQUEST FOR THE ASSEMBLY OF THE MEMBERS OF A BOARD, COMMISSION, AGENCY OR OTHER
ORGANIZATION OF THE TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES
   The undersigned is a member of the _________________________________________
of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida, and hereby requests that a (Check One)
[ ] Meeting [ ] Workshop Session [ ] Other Type of Assembly (Specify:
_____________) of the members of the aforesaid group be called to order and
held at (Check One) [ ] the Briny Breezes Town Hall, 4802 North Ocean
Boulevard, Briny Breezes, Florida, or, if other, check and specify [ ]
________________________ on (date and time) __________________.
   This request that the members of the aforesaid group shall be called into
assembly is for the following reason or purpose:
___________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
The signature of the Member making this request signifies that member’s consent
and vote agreeing to convene the assembly.
Signed: ___________________________________________________      Date:
____________
      Member of the aforesaid group of the town, and Title
NOTICE TO THE TOWN CLERK FOR DELIVERY TO THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE AFORESAID
GROUP OF THE TOWN OF BRINY BREEZES
   THE TOWN CLERK Pro Tem, is hereby directed to proceed without delay to
present this request to the other members of the aforesaid group of the Town of
Briny Breezes who are present and available to vote thereon. Upon receipt of
this request, the aforesaid members, without discussion among themselves, shall
promptly signify their agreement or disagreement therewith, sign their names in
the spaces provided, and return this request to the Town Clerk Pro Tem, for
further processing. When the response from the other members has been
completed, the Town Clerk Pro Tem, shall promptly tally the votes and inform
all of the members of the group as to the results. If a plurality of the
members vote in agreement with the Request for Assembly, the assembly of the
group shall be held as requested, but not otherwise. Whenever a request for
assembly is approved, the Town Clerk shall promptly post a true copy of the
completed request as a form of public notice thereof.
Group Member’s Name Signature       Date          Vote
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Chairperson
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Alderman
_________________________________   ____________   [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
Alderman
CERTIFICATE BY TOWN CLERK PRO TEM
   I HEREBY CERTIFY that I have presented this Request for Assembly to the
members of the aforesaid group of the Town of Briny Breezes who have signed,
dated and endorsed their responses thereto, and by tally of their votes, the
members of the group have decided that they
(Check One) [ ] AGREE [ ] DISAGREE
with the above Request for Assembly as submitted.
_____________________________________         Dated and Posted:
__________________
Town Clerk, Pro Tem
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 11-29-2012)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Taxes
   
34.01   Tax on real and personal property
Public Service Tax; Electricity
   
34.15   Authority for public service tax
   
34.16   Public service tax levied; amount and rate of tax; services taxed
   
34.17   Purchaser obligated to pay tax to the service provider
   
34.18   Service provider obligated to collect tax from purchaser
   
34.19   Provider is liable to town for tax it fails to collect
   
34.20   Discontinuance of service for purchaser’s failure to pay tax
   
34.21   Collecting tax imposed at monthly intervals
   
34.22   Remittance of tax to the town by provider
   
34.23   Records to be kept by service providers
   
34.24   Audit of sales and tax collection records of service providers
   
34.25   Purchasers exempt from taxation
   
34.26   Effective date of public service tax
Accounting Policy and Procedures Manual
   
34.30   Accounting Policy and Procedures Manual adopted by reference
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL TAXES
§ 34.01 TAX ON REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   An ad valorem tax of three mils (.003) is hereby levied upon all real
and personal property within the town limits.
   (B)   Said ad valorem tax shall be due and payable on November 1 of each
year, beginning November 1, 1973.
   (C)   Said ad valorem tax shall be computed on the basis of assessments
annually made for county purposes by the Tax Assessor in and for the county.
(Ord. 3-73, passed 7-9-1973)
PUBLIC SERVICE TAX; ELECTRICITY
§ 34.15 AUTHORITY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TAX.
   The authority for the public service tax hereby imposed is derived from § 9,
Article VII, and § 2(b), Article VIII, of the Florida Constitution, and is an
implementation of the taxing power granted to municipalities by F.S. §§ 166.201
and 166.231.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.16 PUBLIC SERVICE TAX LEVIED; AMOUNT AND RATE OF TAX; SERVICES TAXED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied, established and imposed a public service tax
of 6% on the purchase of electricity, metered or bottled gas (natural,
liquefied petroleum gas or manufactured gas). The tax is levied only upon
purchases within the town.
   (B)   The tax hereby imposed shall not be applied against any fuel
adjustment charge, and such charge shall be separately stated on each bill. The
term FUEL ADJUSTMENT CHARGE means all increases in the cost of utility services
to the ultimate consumer resulting from an increase in the cost of fuel to the
utility subsequent to October 1, 1973.
   (C)   There is hereby levied, established and imposed a public service tax
of 6% on the purchase of other utility services which are competitive with
those enumerated in division (A) above, which tax shall be computed on a
comparable base; however, fuel oil purchased as a competitive service is hereby
taxed a public service tax at the rate of 2.4 cents per gallon.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.17 PURCHASER OBLIGATED TO PAY TAX TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER.
   A duty is hereby imposed on the purchaser of the utility services which are
taxed hereunder to pay the public service tax to the service provider, for the
use of the town, at the time the purchaser pays the service provider’s bill or
charges for such service. It shall be unlawful for any purchaser of service
taxed under this subchapter to neglect, fail or refuse to pay the public
service tax hereby levied and imposed on such purchases, at the time purchaser
pays for the service provided. The purchaser’s failure, neglect or refusal to
pay the public service tax hereby imposed at the time of payment for the
service provided does not relieve the purchaser of liability to the town for
the amount of the public service tax due.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.18 SERVICE PROVIDER OBLIGATED TO COLLECT TAX FROM PURCHASER.
   A duty is hereby imposed on the provider of the utility services which are
taxed hereunder to collect from the purchaser the public service tax on the
service provided, for the use of the town, at the time the purchaser pays the
service provider’s bill, charges or selling price for such service, upon each
transaction. It shall be unlawful for any provider of service taxed under this
subchapter to collect the payment for the service provided without at the same
time collecting the public service tax hereby levied and imposed on such
purchases.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.19 PROVIDER IS LIABLE TO TOWN FOR TAX IT FAILS TO COLLECT.
   It shall be unlawful for any provider of service taxed under this subchapter
to collect the payment for the service provided without at the same time
collecting the public service tax hereby levied and imposed on such purchases.
If any provider of service taxed under this subchapter fails, neglects or
refuses to collect the tax levied by this subchapter from the purchaser thereof
at the time the purchase price for such service is paid, the service provider
shall be deemed to have elected that it will assume and pay such tax itself,
and the service provider shall thereupon be liable to the town for payment of
the amount of such tax in like manner as if the tax had been actually paid to
the seller by the purchaser. The town shall cause all suits and actions to be
brought against such service providers to recover the tax due; however, no
service provider shall be liable for the payment of such tax on unpaid or
uncollected bills.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.20 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR PURCHASER’S FAILURE TO PAY TAX.
   (A)   If any purchaser of the utilities, services and items taxed under this
subchapter shall fail, neglect or refuse to pay to the service provider the
charge for the services provided and the public service tax hereby imposed and
as hereby required on account of the purchase for which such charge is made, or
either, the service provider is hereby authorized to immediately discontinue
further service to such purchaser until the tax and the seller’s bill shall
have been paid in full.
   (B)   The service provider shall immediately report all such failures to pay
the taxes imposed hereunder to the town.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.21 COLLECTING TAX IMPOSED AT MONTHLY INTERVALS.
   In all cases where the provider of service taxed hereunder collects the
purchase price thereof at a monthly period, the tax levied by this subchapter
may be computed on the aggregate amount of the purchases made during such
period, provided that the amount of tax to be collected shall be the nearest
whole cent to the amount computed.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.22 REMITTANCE OF TAX TO THE TOWN BY PROVIDER.
   Each service provider selling services taxed hereunder within the town is
hereby required to execute and file not later than the twentieth day of each
month at the office of the Town Clerk a statement setting forth the amount of
public service tax to which the town became entitled under the provisions
hereof on account of bills paid by purchasers during the preceding fiscal
month. Simultaneously with the filing of such statements, each service provider
shall pay the amount of such public service tax to the Town Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.23 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   Each service provider selling services taxed hereunder within the town is
hereby required to keep complete sales and tax collection records showing all
purchases in the town of such services. These records shall show the date that
each purchase was made, the price charged for each purchase, the tax charged on
each purchase, the date of payment, and the respective amounts paid for the
service and the tax. These records shall be kept open for inspection by the
duly authorized agents of the town during the provider’s regular business
hours.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.24 AUDIT OF SALES AND TAX COLLECTION RECORDS OF SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   The town, and its agents authorized for such purposes, shall have the right
and authority to audit the sales and tax collection records of any provider of
utility services which are subject to the town’s public service tax.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.25 PURCHASERS EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.
   The town hereby exempts from taxation under this subchapter the purchase of
the taxable items enumerated herein made by the United States of America, the
state, all political subdivisions and agencies of the state, and all
municipalities. The town also exempts the purchases made by any recognized
church in this state for use exclusively for church purposes.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
§ 34.26 EFFECTIVE DATE OF PUBLIC SERVICE TAX.
   The public service tax hereby levied on the purchase of electricity, metered
natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, either metered or bottled and upon the
purchase of other utility services which are competitive thereto, including
fuel oil, sold within the town, shall take effect January 1, 1998.
(Ord. 4-97, passed 9-11-1997)
ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL
§ 34.30 ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Town of Briny Breezes Accounting Policy and Procedures Manual, revised
as of February 25, 2021, is adopted by reference. A copy of this Manual, and as
it may later be revised, is available for public inspection during normal
business hours in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Res. 2021-01, passed 2-25-2021)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
34.15 through
34.26, upon conviction thereof, may be sentenced to pay a fine, not to exceed
$500, and may be sentenced to a definite term of imprisonment, not to exceed 60
days, in a municipal detention facility or other facility as authorized by law,
or may be both so fined and imprisoned within the discretion of the Court. Any
act which is a violation of §§
34.15 through
34.26 and which by its nature is continuous, shall be deemed a separate
violation for each day such violation exists.
(Ord. 3-97, passed 6-26-1997)
CHAPTER 35: CODE ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
Section
   
35.01   Intent
   
35.02   Adoption of code enforcement system
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Composition and organization of Code Enforcement Board
   
35.05   Special Magistrate
   
35.06   Representation
   
35.07   Enforcement procedure
   
35.08   Conduct of hearing
   
35.09   Powers of CEB and Special Magistrate
   
35.10   Administrative fines; costs of repairs; liens
   
35.11   Appeals
   
35.12   Notices
   
35.13   Provisions are supplemental
   
35.14   Designation of hearings
   
35.15   Alternative citation process
   
35.16   Citation fine schedule
§ 35.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to promote, protect, and improve the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Briny Breezes by
authorizing the creation of an administrative board and the appointment of a
Special Magistrate with authority to impose administrative fines and other
noncriminal penalties to provide an equitable, expeditious, effective, and
inexpensive method of enforcing any codes and ordinances in force in the town,
where a pending or repeated violation continues to exist.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.02 ADOPTION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to F.S. § 162.03, the town hereby adopts an alternate code
enforcement system described herein for the enforcement of the town's municipal
codes, ordinances, and regulations. The civil penalties assessed or collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
civil or administrative remedies the town may have pursuant to the law.
   (B)   A Special Magistrate shall have the same status as the Code
Enforcement Board (hereinafter CEB) under the statutes and the town's code.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE INSPECTOR. Any authorized agent or employee of the Town of Briny
Breezes whose duty it is to assure code compliance.
   ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The Town of Briny Breezes Code Enforcement Board.
   LOCAL GOVERNING BODY. The governing body of the Town of Briny Breezes,
however designated.
   LOCAL GOVERNING BODY ATTORNEY. The legal counselor for the town.
   REPEAT VIOLATION. A violation of a provision of a code or ordinance by a
person who has been previously found through the town's Code Enforcement Board
or Special Magistrate to have violated, or who has admitted violating, the same
provision within five years prior to the violation, notwithstanding the
violations occur at different locations.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.04 COMPOSITION AND ORGANIZATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint the members of the CEB and legal
counsel for the CEB. The CEB shall consist of five members and two alternate
members. Members of the CEB shall be residents of the town. Appointments shall
be made in accordance with applicable law and ordinances on the basis of
experience or interest in the subject matter jurisdiction of the CEB in the
sole discretion of the Town Council. The membership of the CEB shall, whenever
possible, include an architect, a businessperson, an engineer, a general
contractor, a subcontractor, and a realtor.
   (B)   The initial appointments of the CEB members shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed for a term of one year.
      (2)   Two members appointed for a term of two years each.
      (3)   Two members appointed for a term of three years each.
   (C)   Alternates shall serve for a term of three years, until they resign,
or until they are removed or replaced by the Town Council, whichever comes
first.
   (D)   Thereafter, all appointments to the CEB shall be made for a term of
three years.
   (E)   A member may be reappointed upon approval of the Town Council. An
appointment to fill any vacancy on the CEB shall be for the remainder of the
unexpired term of office. If any member fails to attend two of three successive
meetings without cause and without prior approval of the chair, the CEB shall
declare the member's office vacant, and the Town Council shall promptly fill
such vacancy.
   (F)   The CEB members shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and
may be suspended and removed by the Town Council for cause. For the purposes of
this section, the cause shall be as determined by the Town Council in their
sole discretion. Alternate members shall act only when a regular CEB member is
absent, under a disability, or disqualified from the proceedings. When an
alternate CEB member is needed, the Board shall request the service of the
alternates in alphabetical order until a qualifying and available alternate is
found. A sitting alternate shall be counted towards a quorum.
   (G)   The members of the CEB shall elect a chair, who shall be a voting
member, from among the members of the Board. The presence of three or more
members shall constitute a quorum of the five-member CEB. Members shall serve
without compensation, but may be reimbursed for such travel, mileage, and per
diem expenses as may be authorized by the Town Council or as are otherwise
provided by law. The chair shall control the proceedings.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.05 SPECIAL MAGISTRATE.
   Special Magistrates shall be attorneys licensed to practice law in the State
of Florida, and members in good standing of the Florida Bar. Special
Magistrates shall be authorized to hear and decide cases involving code
violations in the same manner as the CEB.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017; Ord. 02-2021, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 35.06 REPRESENTATION.
   (A)   The Town Council shall designate the person to represent the town by
presenting cases before the CEB. When the CEB is in need of legal counsel, the
Town Council shall appoint an attorney to advise the CEB. The Town Attorney
shall not serve in both capacities.
   (B)   In cases before the Magistrate, the Town Council shall designate the
person to represent the town by presenting the town's case.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.07 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Code Inspector to initiate enforcement
proceedings of the various codes. No member of the CEB or a Special Magistrate
shall have the power to initiate such enforcement proceedings.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (C) and (D), if a violation of the
codes is found, the Code Inspector shall notify the violator and give him or
her a reasonable time to correct the violation. The time for correction shall
be no longer than 30 days. Should the violation continue beyond the time
specified for correction, the Code Inspector shall notify the Town Clerk or the
Clerk's designee and request a hearing. The CEB or Special Magistrate shall,
through its clerical staff, schedule a hearing, and written notice of such
hearing shall be hand delivered or mailed as provided in F.S. § 162.12 to said
violator. At the option of the CEB or the Special Magistrate, notice may
additionally be served by publication or posting as provided in F.S. § 162.12.
If the violation is corrected and then recurs or if the violation is not
corrected by the time specified for correction by the Code Inspector, the case
may be presented to the CEB or Special Magistrate even if the violation has
been corrected prior to the hearing, and the notice shall so state.
   (C)   If a repeat violation is found, the Code Inspector shall notify the
violator but is not required to give the violator a reasonable time to correct
the violation. The code inspector, upon notifying the violator of a repeat
violation, shall notify the CEB or Special Magistrate and request a hearing.
The CEB or Special Magistrate, through its clerical staff, shall schedule a
hearing and shall provide notice pursuant to F.S. § 162.12. The case may be
presented to the CEB or Special Magistrate even if the repeat violation has
been corrected prior to the hearing, and the notice shall so state. If the
repeat violation has been corrected, the CEB or Special Magistrate retains the
right to schedule a hearing to determine costs and impose the payment of
reasonable enforcement fees upon the repeat violator. The repeat violator may
choose to waive his or her rights to this hearing and pay said costs as
determined by the CEB or Special Magistrate.
   (D)   If the Code Inspector has reason to believe a violation or the
condition causing the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare or if the violation is irreparable or irreversible in
nature, the Code Inspector shall make a reasonable effort to notify the
violator and may immediately notify the CEB or Special Magistrate and request a
hearing.
   (E)   If the owner of property that is subject to an enforcement proceeding
before the CEB, Special Magistrate, or court transfers ownership of such
property between the time the initial pleading was served and the time of the
hearing, such owner shall:
      (1)   Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the
proceeding to the prospective transferee.
      (2)   Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of the pleadings,
notices, and other materials relating to the code enforcement proceeding
received by the transferor.
      (3)   Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new
owner will be responsible for compliance with the applicable code and with
orders issued in the code enforcement proceeding.
      (4)   File a notice with the code enforcement official of the transfer of
the property, with the identity and address of the new owner and copies of the
disclosures made to the new owner, within five days after the date of the
transfer. A failure to make the disclosures described in divisions (1), (2),
and (3) before the transfer creates a rebuttable presumption of fraud. If the
property is transferred before the hearing, the proceeding shall not be
dismissed, but the new owner shall be provided a reasonable period of time to
correct the violation before the hearing is held.
   (F)   The time, date and place set for the CEB hearing or Special Magistrate
hearing shall be scheduled and notice of the hearing shall be provided to the
alleged violator and the Code Inspector by the Town Clerk or the Clerk's
designee. If the Code Inspector has reason to believe a violation presents a
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or is irreparable or
irreversible in nature, a special or emergency hearing may be called as
provided herein.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.08 CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (A)   Upon request of the Code Inspector, or at such other times as may be
necessary, the chair of the CEB or the Special Magistrate shall call for a
hearing. A hearing also may be called by written notice signed by at least two
members of the five-member CEB. Minutes shall be kept of all hearings by each
CEB or the Special Magistrate, and all hearings and proceedings shall be open
to the public. The Town Council shall provide clerical and administrative
personnel as may be reasonably required by the CEB or the Special Magistrate
for the proper performance of their duties.
   (B)   Each case before the CEB or Special Magistrate shall be presented by
the local governing body attorney or by a member of the administrative staff of
the town. If the town prevails in prosecuting a case before the CEB or Special
Magistrate, it shall be entitled to recover all costs incurred in prosecuting
the case before the CEB or Special Magistrate and such costs may be included in
the lien authorized under F.S. § 162.09(3). For purposes of this section, the
term "all costs" includes the following:
      (1)   Attorney's fees incurred by the town in prosecuting all aspects of
any case brought before the CEB or Special Magistrate;
      (2)   CEB or Special Magistrate fees incurred by the town for all aspects
of the case heard by the CEB or Special Magistrate;
      (3)   Costs incurred by the town for providing notice, including postage
costs;
      (4)   Costs incurred by the town for creating and presenting photographic
or other evidence of the violation for the hearing; and
      (5)   Expert witness fees incurred by the town in prosecuting any case
brought before the CEB or Special Magistrate.
   (C)   The CEB or Special Magistrate shall proceed to hear the cases on the
agenda for that day. All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded.
The CEB or Special Magistrate shall take testimony from the Code Inspector and
alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due
process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the CEB or Special Magistrate shall
issue findings of fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and
shall issue a written order affording the proper relief consistent with powers
granted herein. In the case of a proceeding with the CEB, the finding shall be
by motion approved by a majority of those members present and voting, except
that at least three members of a five-member CEB must vote in order for the
action to be official. The order may include a notice that it must be complied
with by a specified date and that a fine may be imposed and, under the
conditions specified in F.S. § 162.09(1), the cost of repairs may be included
along with the fine if the order is not complied with by said date. A certified
copy of such order may be recorded in the public records of the county and
shall constitute notice to any subsequent purchasers, successors in interest,
or assigns if the violation concerns real property, and the findings therein
shall be binding upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real
property, any subsequent purchasers, successors in interest, or assigns. If an
order is recorded in the public records pursuant to this division and the order
is complied with by the date specified in the order, the CEB or Special
Magistrate shall issue an order acknowledging compliance that shall be recorded
in the public records. A hearing is not required to issue such an order
acknowledging compliance.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017; Ord. 02-2021, passed 4-22-2021)
§ 35.09 POWERS OF CEB AND SPECIAL MAGISTRATE.
   The CEB and the Special Magistrate shall have the power to:
   (A)   Adopt rules for the conduct of its hearings.
   (B)   Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to its hearings. Subpoenas
may be served by the sheriff of the county, the town's Police Department, or a
licensed process server.
   (C)   Subpoena evidence to its hearings.
   (D)   Take testimony under oath.
   (E)   Issue orders having the force of law to command whatever steps are
necessary to bring a violation into compliance.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.10 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; COSTS OF REPAIR; LIENS.
   (A)   A CEB or Special Magistrate, upon notification by the Code Inspector
that an order of the CEB or Special Magistrate has not been complied with by
the set time or upon finding that a repeat violation has been committed, may
order the violator to pay a fine in an amount specified in this section for
each day the violation continues past the date set by the CEB or Special
Magistrate for compliance or in the case of a repeat violation, for each day
the repeat violation continues, beginning with the date the repeat violation is
found to have occurred by the Code Inspector. In addition, if the violation is
a violation described in F.S. § 162.06(4), the CEB or Special Magistrate shall
notify the Town Council, which may make all reasonable repairs which are
required to bring the property into compliance and charge the violator with the
reasonable cost of the repairs along with the fine imposed pursuant to this
section. Making such repairs does not create a continuing obligation on the
part of the town to make further repairs or to maintain the property and does
not create any liability against the town for any damages to the property if
such repairs were completed in good faith. If a finding of a violation or a
repeat violation has been made as provided in this part, a hearing shall not be
necessary for issuance of the order imposing the fine. If, after due notice and
hearing, the CEB or Special Magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable or
irreversible in nature, it may order the violator to pay a fine as specified in
paragraph (B)(1).
   (B)   (1)   A fine imposed pursuant to this section shall not exceed $250
per day for a first violation and shall not exceed $500 per day for a repeat
violation, and, in addition, may include all costs of repairs pursuant to
division (A). However, if the CEB or special magistrate finds the violation to
be irreparable or irreversible in nature, it may impose a fine not to exceed
$5,000 per violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the fine, if any, the CEB or special
magistrate shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   The gravity of the violation;
         (b)   Any actions taken by the violator to correct the violation;
         (c)   Any previous violations committed by the violator; and
         (d)   Any other relevant mitigating or aggravating factor as
determined by the CEB or Special Magistrate.
      (3)   The CEB or Special Magistrate may reduce a fine imposed pursuant to
this section.
      (4)    The CEB or special magistrate may impose additional fines to cover
all costs incurred by the town in enforcing its codes and all costs of repairs
pursuant to division (B)(1).
   (C)   A certified copy of an order imposing a fine, or a fine plus repair
costs, may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a
lien against the land on which the violation exists and upon any other real or
personal property owned by the violator. Upon petition to the circuit court,
such order shall be enforceable in the same manner as a court judgment by the
sheriffs of this state, including execution and levy against the personal
property of the violator, but such order shall not be deemed to be a court
judgment except for enforcement purposes. A fine imposed pursuant to this
section shall continue to accrue until the violator comes into compliance or
until judgment is rendered in a suit filed pursuant to this section, whichever
occurs first. A lien arising from a fine imposed pursuant to this section runs
in favor of the town and the town may execute a satisfaction or release of lien
entered pursuant to this section. After three months from the filing of any
such lien which remains unpaid, the CEB or Special Magistrate may authorize the
local governing body attorney to foreclose on the lien or to sue to recover a
money judgment for the amount of the lien plus accrued interest. The
authorization shall be in writing. No lien created pursuant to the provisions
of this section may be foreclosed on real property which is a homestead under
Article X, § 4 of the State Constitution. The money judgment provisions of this
section shall not apply to real property or personal property which is covered
under Article X, § 4(a) of the State Constitution.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.11 APPEALS.
   An aggrieved party, including the town, may appeal a final administrative
order of the CEB or Special Magistrate. Such an appeal shall not be a hearing
de novo but shall be limited to appellate review of the record created before
the CEB or Special Magistrate. An appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the
execution of the order to be appealed.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.12 NOTICES.
   (A)   All notices required by this chapter must be provided to the alleged
violator by:
      (1)   Certified mail, and at the option of the town, return receipt
requested, to the address listed in the tax collector's office for tax notices
or to the address listed in the county property appraiser's database. The town
may also provide an additional notice to any other address it may find for the
property owner. For property owned by a corporation, notices may be provided by
certified mail to the registered agent of the corporation. If any notice sent
by certified mail is not signed as received within 30 days after the postmarked
date of mailing, notice may be provided by posting as described in divisions
(B)(2)(a) and (b);
      (2)   Hand delivery by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer, Code
Inspector, or other person designated by the town;
      (3)   Leaving the notice at the violator's usual place of residence with
any person residing therein who is above 15 years of age and informing such
person of the contents of the notice; or
      (4)   In the case of commercial premises, leaving the notice with the
manager or other person in charge.
   (B)   In addition to providing notice as set forth in division (A), at the
option of the CEB or Special Magistrate or the town, notice may be served by
publication or posting, as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Such notice shall be published once during each week for four
consecutive weeks (four publications being sufficient) in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county where the CEB or special magistrate is
located. The newspaper shall meet such requirements as are prescribed under
F.S. Ch. 50 for legal and official advertisements.
         (b)   Proof of publication shall be made as provided in F.S. §§ 50.041
and 50.051.
      (2)   (a)   In lieu of publication as described in division (1), such
notice may be posted at least ten days prior to the hearing, or prior to the
expiration of any deadline contained in the notice, in at least two locations,
one of which shall be the property upon which the violation is alleged to exist
and the other of which shall be the town's primary office location.
         (b)   Proof of posting shall be by affidavit of the person posting the
notice, which affidavit shall include a copy of the notice posted and the date
and places of its posting.
      (3)   Notice by publication or posting may run concurrently with, or may
follow, an attempt or attempts to provide notice by hand delivery or by mail as
required under division (1).
   (C)   Evidence that an attempt has been made to hand deliver or mail notice
as provided in division (A) together with proof of publication or posting as
provided in division (B) shall be sufficient to show that the notice
requirements of this section have been met without regard to whether or not the
alleged violator actually received such notice.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.13 PROVISIONS ARE SUPPLEMENTAL.
   The provisions of this chapter are an additional or supplemental means of
obtaining compliance with the town codes. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall prohibit the town from enforcing its codes by any other means.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.14 DESIGNATION OF HEARINGS.
   The Town Council shall designate by Town Council resolution the specific
code violations which will be heard by the Special Magistrate and the specific
code violations which will be heard by the Code Enforcement Board. The
resolution may require all violations to be heard by either body.
(Ord. 5-2017, passed 12-28-2017)
§ 35.15 ALTERNATIVE CITATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Authority to issue citations. A designated or authorized employee or
agent of the town is empowered to issue citations to any person or violator for
a violation of this code, all municipal codes, ordinances and the amendments
thereto, when such Code Enforcement Officer has actual knowledge that a
violation has been committed.
   (B)   Citation form. A citation issued by an authorized employee or agent of
the town shall be in a form prescribed by the county or the municipality and
shall contain:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance.
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued.
      (3)   The date and time the violation was committed.
      (4)   The facts constituting reasonable cause.
      (5)   The number or section of the code or ordinance violated.
      (6)   The name and authority of the authorized employee or agent issuing
the citation.
      (7)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
penalty or to contest the citation.
      (8)   The applicable civil penalty if the person elects to contest the
citation.
      (9)   The applicable civil penalty if the person elects not to contest
the citation.
      (10)   A conspicuous statement that if the person fails to pay the civil
penalty within the time allowed, or fails to appear in court to contest the
citation, the person shall be deemed to have waived his right to contest the
citation and that, in such case, judgment may be entered against the person for
an amount up to the maximum civil penalty.
   (C)   Violator’s choices. Upon receiving a citation, an alleged violator may
elect to proceed to an enforcement hearing or may elect to pay the civil
penalty if the violation is one that is specifically provided in the fine
schedule set forth in §
35.16. If a person elects to contest the citation, they may proceed to a
hearing. If a person elects not to contest the violation he shall pay the civil
penalty provided in the schedule set forth in §
35.16 within ten days after issuance of the citation.
(Ord. 04-2022, passed 10-27-2022)
§ 35.16 CITATION FINE SCHEDULE.
   Upon receiving a citation for a violation of the code, an alleged violator
may elect to pay the civil penalty listed below or, in lieu thereof, may
proceed to the code enforcement hearing. The following fines shall be
applicable to first and subsequent offenses as defined below. If the matter is
referred to a code enforcement hearing, the fine imposed may be higher than
prescribed in the schedule below as provided elsewhere in the code. Nothing in
this section shall bar or preclude the town from requiring a mandatory code
enforcement hearing.
Class I violations
First offense                                                        $50
Second offense                                                       $100
Third offense                                                        $250
Fourth and subsequent offense                                        $500
Class II violations
First offense                                                        $100
Second offense                                                       $200
Third offense                                                        $300
Fourth and subsequent offense                                        $500
Class III violations
First offense                                                        $250
Second and subsequent offense                                        $500
Code section                                                         Class
§                                                                   I
72.01 Bell or horn required
§                                                                   I
72.02 Lights
§                                                                   I
91.01(c) Rules and regulations for use of private and public beaches
§                                                                   I
130.09 Obstruction of streets and sidewalks
§                                                                   II
130.10 Balloons and sky lanterns
§                                                                   III
130.11 Fireworks
(Ord. 04-2022, passed 10-27-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SHORTAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER RATES
      
52.   SEWER CODE
CHAPTER 50: WATER SHORTAGE
Section
   
50.01   Intent and purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Application of chapter
   
50.04   Amendments to water shortage plan
   
50.05   Declaration of water shortage/emergency
   
50.06   Enforcement
   
50.07   Water users to accept provisions of chapter
   
50.08   System-based water shortages
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to protect the water resources
of the town from the harmful effects of overutilization during periods of water
shortage and allocate available water supplies by assisting the South Florida
Water Management District in the implementation of its water shortage plan.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include the singular, and words in the singular
include the plural. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   DISTRICT. The South Florida Water Management District.
   PERSON. Any person, firm partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   WATER RESOURCE. Any and all water on or beneath the surface of the ground,
including natural or artificial watercourse, lakes, ponds or diffused surface
water, and water percolating, standing or flowing beneath the surface of the
ground.
   WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION. When sufficient water is not available to meet
present or anticipated needs of persons using the water resource, or when
conditions are such as to require temporary reduction in total water usage
within a particular area to protect the water resource from serious harm. A
WATER SHORTAGE usually occurs due to drought.
   WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY. A situation when the powers which can be exercised
under Part II of Chapter 40E-21, Florida Administrative Code, are not
sufficient to protect the public health, safety or welfare, or the health of
animals, fish or aquatic life, or a public water supply, or commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other reasonable uses.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons using the water
resource within the geographical areas subject to the “water shortage” or
“water shortage emergency”, as determined by the district, whether from public
or privately owned water utility systems, private wells or private connections
with surface water bodies. This chapter shall not apply to persons using
treated effluent or saltwater.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.04 AMENDMENTS TO WATER SHORTAGE PLAN.
   Chapter 40E-21, Florida Administrative Code, as same may be amended from
time to time, is incorporated herein by reference as part of the code of
ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.05 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE/EMERGENCY.
   The declaration of a water shortage or water shortage emergency within all
or any part of the town by the governing board or the Executive Director of the
District shall invoice the provisions of this chapter. Upon such declaration
all water use restrictions or other measures adopted by the District applicable
to the town, or any portion thereof, shall be subject to enforcement action
pursuant to this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of Chapter 40-E, 21,
Florida Administrative Code, or any order issued pursuant thereto, shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Every police officer having jurisdiction in the town shall, in connection
with all other duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, the Mayor may also delegate enforcement responsibility
for this chapter to agencies and/or departments of the town, in accordance with
state and local law.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.07 WATER USERS TO ACCEPT PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   No water service shall be furnished to any person by a public or private
utility, unless such person agrees to accept all the provisions of this
chapter. The acceptance of water service shall be in itself the acceptance of
the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.08 SYSTEM-BASED WATER SHORTAGES.
   The Mayor may declare a water shortage and impose water restrictions in
accordance with the District’s Water Shortage Plan, when necessary to curtail
water use within the town water system due to a mechanical failure or other
operational problem with said system.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
following penalties:
      (1)   First violation: $25; and
      (2)   Second and subsequent violations: fine not to exceed $500 and/or
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 60 days.
   (B)   Each day in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense. In the initial stages of a water shortage or water shortage emergency,
law enforcement officials may provide violators with no more than one written
warning. The town, in addition to the criminal sanctions contained herein, may
take any other appropriate legal action, including, but not limited to,
emergency injunctive action, to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 7-25-1985)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER RATES
Section
   
51.01   Service charges
   
51.02   Water and sewer rates
   
51.03   [Reserved]
   
51.04   Amendment of water and sewer rates
   
51.05   Payment and collection of utility charges
   
51.06   Consumer regulations for utility service
   
51.07   Liberal construction
   
51.08   Violations
§ 51.01 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Types of charges. All water and sewer service provided by the town
shall be charged to the consumers receiving same at the rates for such service
which are set and established by the town. There shall be two types of consumer
service, namely, residential service and commercial service. There shall be no
free utility service provided to any consumer. The rates for water and sewer
service shall be fair and equitable, as determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   Compliance with bond resolutions. In setting the rates for water and
sewer service, the Council shall review the revenues and expenditures of the
town’s Enterprise Fund, and shall first find and declare that the rates for
water and sewer service which they fix and establish hereunder are adequate to
meet the minimum gross revenue requirement specified for the operation,
maintenance and debt service of the town water and sewer system by Bond Res.
94-7 and Bond Res. 94-15.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994; Ord. 2-96, passed 10-24-1996)
§ 51.02 WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Service rate. The just and equitable rate for water and sewer service
to be paid to the town by the only customer (the landowner Briny Breezes,
Inc.), shall be $26,667 per month. This rate shall commence October 1, 2021 and
continue in effect until changed by resolution of the Town Council adopted for
such purpose.
   (B)   Adequacy of rates. After a thorough review of the revenues and
expenditures of town’s Enterprise Fund, the Town Council hereby finds and
declares that the new rates or charges herein are just and equitable rates or
charges to be paid to the town for the use of the town’s water and sewer system
by each person, firm or corporation whose premises are served thereby for the
operation and maintenance of the town water and sewer system, and the debt
service rates needed to comply with the town water and sewer system bonds,
which have been retired.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994; Ord. 2-96, passed 10-24-1996; Res. 03-2, passed
12-18-2003; Res. 2019-16, passed 12-5-2019; Res. 2020-11, passed 9-24-2020;
Res. 2021-10, passed 9-23-2021)
§ 51.03 [RESERVED].
§ 51.04 AMENDMENT OF WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Authority to amend rates. The Town Council shall have the authority to
amend the rates promulgated for the water and sewer service established by this
chapter from time to time, and as often as may be required, by fixing new rates
which are just and equitable.
   (B)   Amendment by resolution. The Town Council is hereby authorized to
establish such new rates by a town resolution adopted for such purpose, rather
than by ordinance.
   (C)   Contents of resolution. A resolution amending the rates for water and
sewer service shall contain the following provisions, or their equivalent,
together with the determinations of the Town Council as to the rate amounts,
the dates the new rates shall take effect, that the new rates are fair and
equitable, and that the rates comply with the minimum gross revenue
requirements of the town bond resolutions:
      (1)   Residential service rate. The fair and equitable rate for water and
sewer service to be paid to the town for a residential unit shall be $___ per
month. This rate shall commence _____, and continue in effect until changed by
resolution of the Town Council adopted for such purpose.
      (2)   Commercial service rate. The fair and equitable rate for water and
sewer service to be paid to the town for a commercial unit shall be $___ per
month. This rate shall commence ______, and continue in effect until changed by
resolution of the Town Council adopted for such purpose.
      (3)   Compliance with bond resolutions. After review of the revenues and
expenditures of the town’s Enterprise Fund, the Town Council hereby finds and
declares that the new rates for water and sewer service fixed and established
by this section are adequate to meet the minimum gross revenue requirement
specified for the operation, maintenance and debt service of the town water and
sewer system by Bond Res. 94-7 and Bond Res. 94-15.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 10-24-1996)
Water and Sewer Rates   9
§ 51.05 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF UTILITY CHARGES.
   (A)   Bills payable; when due. All bills for water and sewer service shall
be due and payable on the date statements are submitted to the consumers.
   (B)   Disconnection of service for non-payment. In the event of the failure
of any consumer of water and sewer service supplied by the town to pay the
account within 30 days after the same shall become due and payable, the town
shall have the right and authority, through its authorized agents and employees
for such purpose, to disconnect the water supply and discontinue the sewer
service to such premises.
   (C)   Service fees for shut off and reconnection. Consumers requesting
reconnection of their water and sewer service after the same has been shut off
for non-payment of charges shall first pay the town in full for all past due
charges for service to the premises, together with a fee for the service calls
for both the shut off and the reconnection of the utility service. All service
fees shall be computed by the town on the basis of the actual cost and expense
incurred, and shall be in an amount sufficient to reimburse the town in full.
   (D)   Lien for unpaid water and sewer service charges. The town shall have a
lien on all lands and premises served by its municipal water and sewer system
for all utility charges and service charges until paid, which lien shall be
prior to all other liens on such lands or premises except for the lien of ad
valorem real estate taxes, with which the town’s lien shall be in parity. The
town utility liens which are delinquent for more than 30 days may be foreclosed
by the town in the manner provided by the laws of the state for the foreclosure
of mortgages on real property.
   (E)   Appointment of collection agent. The town reserves the right to
appoint an agent to collect the bills and fees for water and sewer service due
and owing to the town from the consumers of said utility system. Any agent so
appointed is hereby delegated the power and authority to demand and receive
payment of all such bills and fees for water and sewer service due the town
from its consumers, and to remit same to the town to be credited to the
consumer’s account. Such agent shall report any delinquent or non-paying
consumers to the town for the town’s further action to enforce payment,
including shutting off utility service to said premises.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 51.06 CONSUMER REGULATIONS FOR UTILITY SERVICE.
   The rules and regulations herein set forth, together with the provisions of
the town’s Water Conservation ordinance contained in §§
153.085 through
153.094, are hereby made a part of the contract between the town and every
consumer or applicant for water and sewer service from the town.
   (A)   Consumer list, agreements and applications for service. The names and
addresses of consumers who presently receive water and sewer service in the
town shall be enrolled by the town as the town’s charter list of utility
consumers. By their continued acceptance of water and sewer utility service to
their respective living units or premises, all such consumers agree to the
provisions of this chapter and the town’s rules and regulations for water and
sewer service. Any residential or commercial consumer in the town which has not
been established as a consumer of water and sewer service as of the date of
this chapter shall first make application to the town on an appropriate form
furnished for such purpose and the same must be signed by the owner of the
property, agent, tenant or consumer. Upon acceptance by the town, such
application form shall become the consumer’s service agreement with the town
for the lands and premises of that party.
   (B)   Unified utility services. Each residential and commercial unit served
by the town must receive both water and sewer service, and there shall be no
separation of either water service or sewer service to any lands and premises.
   (C)   No private wells. It shall be unlawful for any person to drill, dig,
sink or use a private well for potable water or for irrigation purposes within
the town limits.
   (D)   Connection with system required. All inhabited buildings and
structures located within the town limits must be connected with the town’s
water and sewer system by the property owner or occupant responsible for such
property within 30 days from the time such systems are available.
   (E)   Consumer’s maintenance responsibility. The town’s ownership and
responsibility for the water and sewer system shall extend from the town’s
service mains only up to the point of service to the consumer. The consumer
shall be responsible for the maintenance of that portion of the water and sewer
system beyond the point of service, where town ownership ends, including all
portions of the system located on the consumer’s premises. The consumer shall
keep all the pipes, fittings, appliances, fixtures and appurtenances used for
water and sewer service on his or her premises leak-free, and in good order and
repair. The consumer shall not utilize any water or sewer appliance or device
which is not properly constructed, controlled and protected, or which may
adversely affect water or sewer service, and shall not cause, create or allow
to continue any cross-connections or back-flow conditions in the water or sewer
pipes and appliances located on his or her premises.
   (F)   Individual service. The water and sewer service which is ultimately
provided to the consumer’s lands and premises shall be used for that individual
property only. Consumers shall not extend their water or sewer services to
provide service beyond their property for use on other property, nor accept,
receive or use water or sewer service to or for their property from the utility
service provided to the property of another consumer.
   (G)   Right of inspection. Pursuant to reasonable notice, any inspector duly
appointed and authorized by the town for such purpose shall have the right to
enter the premises of the consumers of the town’s water and sewer service, at
reasonable times and circumstances, to examine the consumers’ water and sewer
service pipes, fittings, appliances, fixtures and appurtenances located on such
premises to determine whether the same are leak-free, and in good order and
repair.
   (H)   Interference with the system prohibited. Except for authorized
inspectors and agents of the town, and the town’s police and fire officers, no
person shall open or interfere with the town’s fire hydrants, lift stations or
any valves, connections and appurtenances to the town’s water and sewer system.
Any person causing damage or loss to any such property, or to any part of the
town’s water and sewer system, whether accidentally or intentionally, shall be
liable to the town for the full cost of such repairs or replacements determined
to be necessary in the sole discretion of the town, and shall reimburse the
town in full upon demand for payment. Anyone intentionally damaging or
destroying any property comprising a part of the town’s water and sewer system
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished as
provided by §
10.99.
   (I)   Temporary shutoffs. The town reserves the right to shut off water and
sewer service to a consumer on a temporary or intermittent basis whenever
necessary to make repairs, modifications or changes to the system. Such service
interruptions, or any accidental failure of water or sewer service by the town,
shall not be the basis for any liability or claim for damages against the town.
   (J)   Unnecessary usage or waste of water prohibited. In utilizing the water
and sewer services provided by the town’s utility system, the consumers agree
to avoid the unnecessary usage or waste of water, and to follow all reasonable
and customary conservation practices which are aimed and intended to limit
water usage to only that which necessary, efficient and practical.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively
carry out its purposes in the interest of public health, safety, welfare and
convenience.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994)
§ 51.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall be found guilty of the violation of or failure to
comply with any provision of this chapter by a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1-94, passed 6-23-1994)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Scope
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Connections required
   
52.05   Free service prohibited
   
52.06   Trespass on property of system
   
52.07   Right to refuse service
   
52.08   Protection from damage
   
52.09   Collection of service charge
   
52.10   Permit required for building sewer and connections
   
52.11   Permit forms
Discharge to Regional Treatment Facility Generally
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Scope
   
52.27   General provisions
   
52.28   Definitions
   
52.29   Disposal other than through regional facilities
   
52.30   Criteria for wastes discharged to regional plant
   
52.31   Admission of industrial and commercial waste
   
52.32   Industrial and commercial waste discharge permits required; term
   
52.33   Industrial and commercial waste discharge permit; application
   
52.34   Power and authority of inspectors
   
52.35   Applicability to all users
   
52.36   Violations
User Charges and Industrial Cost Recovery
   
52.50   Purpose
   
52.51   Scope
   
52.52   Definitions
   
52.53   User charge system
   
52.54   Industrial cost recovery system
   
52.55   Applicability
   
52.56   Violation
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes the provisions within the Sewer Code that
provide regulations and authority governing the sewer service system.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.02 SCOPE.
   The system considered herewith is the town wastewater collection system
only. This includes that portion which is connected to the City of Boynton
Beach’s system via force main.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of public sewers to be operated by a city of
the county and connected to the South Central Regional Wastewater Treatment
Facilities.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings,
commercial buildings, institutions and industry resulting from household or
toilet waste resulting from human occupancy. It may or may not contain ground
water, surface water or storm water.
   FIXTURE. A plumbing fixture or drain that connects to the sewer, including a
toilet, wash basin or lavatory, bathtub or shower, laundry tub, kitchen sink,
slop or wash sink, washing machine drain, or any fixture, machine, equipment or
device connected to or discharging into the sewer.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company association, society, corporation or
group.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REGIONAL TREATMENT FACILITIES. The South Central Regional Wastewater
Treatment Plant transmission and disposal facilities as operated by the South
Central Regional Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Board of Palm Beach County,
Florida.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The household and toilet wastes resulting from human
occupancy.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   TOWN. The Town of Briny Breezes Florida. TOWN, CITY or COUNTY means all that
land and water area included within the boundary of the city, county or other
political entity in which the city, county or other political entity proposes
to acquire, establish, construct, extend, operate and maintain sanitary
sewerage facilities, except as follows:
      (1)   All state and federally-owned land and water area located in the
city or county, except where the state and federal government consent to the
provisions of this subchapter; and
      (2)   All land and water area duly franchised by the city or county to
privately-owned sewer utility companies for the provisions of sewer service,
except where the privately-owned sewer utility companies consent to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.04 CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of each lot or parcel of land within the town
which abuts upon a street or other public way containing a sanitary sewer
served or which may be served by the sewage disposal system and upon which lot
or parcel a building has been or shall be constructed for residential, or
commercial use, shall within 30 days after the placing of the sewage disposal
system in operation and the construction of all connections thereto from such
sanitary sewer, or within 30 days after the construction of such building,
connect such building with such sanitary sewer, and shall cease to use any
other method for the disposal of sewage, sewage waste or other polluting
matter.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no free services rendered by the sewage disposal system and
all users of the service and facilities of the sewage disposal system shall pay
for the use of such services and facilities at the established rates.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.06 TRESPASS ON PROPERTY OF SYSTEM.
   Any person who wrongfully, or without authority enters any enclosure or
buildings of the sewage disposal system shall be deemed to have entered with
the intention of committing a trespass on said land or building, and every
person so trespassing shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 RIGHT TO REFUSE SERVICE.
   The town shall have the right to refuse waste from any lot or parcel of land
upon which there is located any building or activity which does not comply with
this subchapter, supply proper metering of its waste, or is not within its
designated service area.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.08 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The sewer service charges shall become effective, as to each lot or
parcel of land which may be connected with the sewage disposal system by or
through any part of the sewer system of the city, upon the placing of the
sewage disposal system in operation and the construction of all connections
thereto from the sanitary sewer serving such lot or parcel.
   (B)   In all cases where water is furnished by the Water Department of the
town, the amount of the sewer service charges shall be included in the bills
for water rendered by the town.
   (C)   All bills for sewer service charges shall be either hand delivered to
the customer monthly, or by way of the United States Postal Service, and shall
be due when rendered. If not paid within 30 days of the original billing date,
such sewer service charge shall be added to the next monthly bill and shown
thereon as a delinquent item. Should the customer fail to pay said delinquent
item immediately, the town may thereafter, and without further notice to the
customer, disconnect their service, discontinue furnishing water to such
premises, and, if the amount of the total bill exceeds the amount of the
customer’s water meter deposit, it may also disconnect such meter. Further, the
town shall proceed forthwith to recover the amount due on said bill in such
lawful manner as it may deem advisable.
   (D)   If any bill for sewer service charges rendered in connection with any
premises not connected with the water system shall not be paid within 30 days
from the rendition of such bill, the owner, tenant or occupant of such premises
shall cease to dispose of sewage or industrial wastes originating from or on
such premises by discharge thereof directly or indirectly into the sewer system
of the town until such sewer service charges, with interest, shall be paid, and
if such owner, tenant or occupant shall not cease such disposal at the
expiration of such 30-day period, the town shall disconnect such premises from
the sewer system and the Town Council shall proceed forthwith to recover the
amount of such sewer service charges in such lawful manner as it may deem
advisable.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.10 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit or permission from the proper official
empowered to do so by the town, county or other entity whose public sewer is
affected.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 PERMIT FORMS.
   (A)   The application for a waste discharge permit shall be of a form
specified by the proper town official or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   This application will define all of the pertinent data concerning the
acceptance of industrial and commercial waste flows and will provide the basis
for the issuing of a permit certificate specifying limitations on what the user
may discharge.
   (C)   The initial permit shall be effective for a period of one year only
from date of issuance and must be renewed annually.
   (D)   An application for an initial permit shall be accompanied by a check
in an amount as established by the town as application fee.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
DISCHARGE TO REGIONAL TREATMENT FACILITY GENERALLY
§ 52.25 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes procedures, defines responsibilities and sets
standards and limitations on the discharge of waste other than sanitary sewage
into the regional treatment facilities.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.26 SCOPE.
   The South Central Regional Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Board is
responsible for the proper treatment and disposal of all waste that is proper
to process through the regional treatment facilities, beginning at the point
source. The terms of this subchapter shall be applicable to that portion of the
sewer system located within the town, and any other portion controlled or
operated by the town.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.27 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The policy is hereby established that the provisions of this subchapter will
be enforced to the fullest extent possible. These requirements are in accord
with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendment of 1972 and pertinent
rules and regulations of the State Department of Pollution Control. The
standards set forth are minimum requirements to ensure the general health and
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.28 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR. The Administrative Director or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative. The Administrative Director is the
authorized administration authority of the South Central Regional Wastewater
Treatment and Disposal Board of Palm Beach County, Florida.
   BOARD. South Central Regional Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Board of
Palm Beach County, Florida.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C. expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of public sewers to be operated by a town,
city or the county and connected to the South Central Regional Wastewater
Treatment Facilities.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings,
commercial buildings, institutions and industry resulting from household or
toilet waste resulting from human occupancy. It may or may not contain ground
water, surface water or storm water.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving foods.
   INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial,
commercial or institutional processes as distinct from domestic or sanitary
sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued to control
the process flows from industry, commerce or institutions that may be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system. This permit is issued in addition to
any other types of permits. When issued, the permit will define the
characteristics and volume of the flow and acceptance or rejection of
individual waste components.
   mg/l. The abbreviation of milligrams per liter or the number of units of
minor constituents present with each one million units of the major constituent
of a solution or mixture. mg/l shall be considered equivalent to parts per
million.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. Logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REGIONAL TREATMENT FACILITIES. The South Central Regional Wastewater
Treatment Plant transmission and disposal facilities as operated by the South
Central Regional Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Board of Palm Beach County,
Florida.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The household and toilet wastes resulting from human
occupancy.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or if quantity of flow exceeds for any
period or duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm water and surface water, street wash
and other wash waters or drainage, but excludes domestic wastewater and
industrial and commercial waste.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that are in suspension in water, sewage or other
liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Briny Breezes, Florida. TOWN, CITY or COUNTY means all
that land and water area included within the boundary of the town, city, county
or other political entity in which the city, county or other political entity
proposes to acquire, establish, construct, extend, operate and maintain
sanitary sewerage facilities, except as follows:
      (1)   All state-owned and federally-owned land and water area located in
the town or county, except where the state and federal government consent to
the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (2)   All land and water area duly franchised by the town or county to
privately-owned sewer utility companies for the provisions of sewer service,
except where the privately-owned sewer utility companies consent to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.29 DISPOSAL OTHER THAN THROUGH REGIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   The disposal of sewage by means other than use of the available
regional wastewater facilities shall be in accordance with city, county, state
and federal law.
   (B)   The disposal of sewage shall be as outlined under this subchapter in
the City of Boynton Beach and/or the City of Delray Beach industrial and
commercial waste ordinance, or any other duly enacted industrial and commercial
waste ordinance which meets or exceeds the City of Boynton Beach and/or the
City of Delray Beach industrial and commercial waste ordinance requirements
outlined under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.30 CRITERIA FOR WASTES DISCHARGED TO REGIONAL PLANT.
   Waste discharge to public sewers which in turn discharge to the regional
treatment plant shall meet or exceed the following criteria.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically approved by the proper town or county official.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on
approval of the official to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant including
but not limited to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as Cn in the wastes
discharged to the public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics,
wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails, paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or
ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the proper Board official that such wastes can harm either the wastewater
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving water
body, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
      (1)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the official will give consideration of such factors as the quantities
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment process,
capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of waste in
the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
         (c)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Board as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (e)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, which shall
mean the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have
been shredded to such degree that all particles will be carried freely under
the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle size
greater than one-half inch of any dimension;
         (f)   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than
9.5 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structure, equipment or personnel or any waste treatment works;
         (g)   Any waste containing toxic substances in quantities in excess of
the following limits and measured at the point of discharge into the sewer
system:
Copper, total        0.5 mg/l
Chromium, hexavalent 0.05 mg/l
Chromium, total      0.1 mg/l
Cyanides             0.01 mg/l
Detergents           2.0 mg/l
Sulfides             0.2 mg/l
Zinc, total          1.0 mg/l
or any substance that will pass through the waste treatment facilities and
exceed the state and federal requirements for receiving waters.
 
         (h)   Under no conditions shall industrial or commercial users
discharge the waste from sodium-cycle cation exchange (water softening) units;
         (i)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids or color of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the waste treatment facilities without a special permit
issued by the Board;
         (j)   Any water or waste with a chlorine demand greater than 15 mg/l;
         (k)   Any radioactive isotopes, without a special permit issued by the
town;
         (l)   Under no conditions will the discharge of domestic, sanitary,
industrial or commercial waste be permitted into the storm sewer system;
         (m)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Board in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (n)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of (9.5);
         (o)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye,
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirement in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
works; or
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
         (p)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
         (q)   Waters or wastes containing suspended solids in excess of 300
mg/l; and
         (r)   Waters or wastes with a five-day, 20°C BOD greater than 300 mg/
l.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which, in the
judgment of the Board, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the official may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing fees or sewer charges.
      (2)   If the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the town and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws. In addition, any major contributing
industry as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 128.124 shall comply with 40 C.F.R. part 128
and any other regulation as shall from time to time be established by EPA or
other appropriate regulating governmental agency.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Board, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Board and shall be so located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 ADMISSION OF INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE.
   (A)   The economy and desirability of the combined treatment of industrial
and commercial wastes and sanitary sewage is recognized; however, not all types
and quantities of industrial and commercial wastes can be so treated. It shall
be the policy to admit the types and quantities of industrial and commercial
wastes that are not harmful or damaging to the structures, processes or
operation of the sewage works or are not specifically prohibited. In all cases,
a special permit will be issued which will state specific conditions and
requirements to be maintained. It is also recognized that to provide this
service, additional facilities and/or treatment are required, and the cost of
such must be borne by the user receiving the benefits.
   (B)   (1)   Approval is required for the admission of industrial or
commercial wastes into the public sewers having:
         (a)   A five-day, 20°C BOD greater than 300 mg/l; and
         (b)   A suspended solids content greater than 300 mg/l.
      (2)   The user shall provide chemical analyses of the discharge according
to a schedule to be established by the Board and continued discharge shall be
subject to approval of the Board.
   (C)   In order to identify the point sources, all users of the sewage works
who are now discharging industrial or commercial wastes to the public sewers
shall, upon request of the town or its designated agent, fill in and file with
the requesting official within 90 days a questionnaire which shall furnish
pertinent data inclusive of quantity of flow and an analysis of the water
discharged to the regional treatment plant. Further, any person desiring to
make a new connection to the wastewater system for the purpose of discharging
industrial or commercial wastes to the public sewers shall fill in and file
with the designated officials above an industrial and commercial waste
questionnaire as outlined for existing users.
   (D)   Sample and analysis shall be a 24-hour composite sample collected so
as to be a representative sample of the actual quality of the wastes. Sample
for analysis may be collected by the user or his or her representative.
Analysis shall be made by a registered sanitary engineer or graduate chemist
whose qualifications are acceptable to the town or a Class A, B or C wastewater
treatment plant operator registered in the state, using the laboratory methods
for the examination of wastewater as set forth in the latest edition of
Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Sewage, as published by the
American Public Health Association.
   (E)   If it is necessary due to the size or complexity of the waste disposal
problem of an establishment, an extension of time may be granted provided it
can be shown that it is impractical to meet the schedule imposed in this
subchapter. A request for extension must be submitted in writing to the town
official identified in division (C) above.
   (F)   When required by the proper town official, any new establishment
discharging industrial or commercial wastes into the sewer system shall
construct and maintain at his or her expense a suitable control manhole or
manholes downstream from any treatment, storage or other approved works to
facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of all wastes including all
domestic sewage from the establishment. The control manhole or manholes shall
be constructed at suitable and satisfactory locations and built in a manner
approved by the official identified in division (C) above. The manhole shall be
maintained by the establishment so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
If any establishment wishes to meter its waste discharge into the sewer system
to verify in-product water retention or other uses of metered flow, they may
install a flow-metering device as approved by the proper Board official or his
or her designated agent. The control manhole shall be accessible to town
personnel at all times for sampling. All authorized town employees shall be
permitted, upon suitable notice to the user, to enter upon all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.32 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE DISCHARGE PERMITS REQUIRED; TERM.
   A special permit will be required for each industrial and commercial
establishment which is identified as having other than domestic wastes or waste
from sanitary conveniences. The fixed life of a permit is set for one year from
date of issue, and a renewed waste discharge permit will have a fixed life of
one year. These permits involve the implementation of a formula for surcharges
for wastes which exceed the sewage parameters for strength as defined in §
52.31(B).
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.33 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a waste discharge permit shall be of a form
specified by the proper town official or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   The application will define all of the pertinent data concerning the
acceptance of industrial and commercial waste flows and will provide the basis
for the issuing of a permit certificate specifying limitations on what the user
may discharge.
   (C)   The initial permit shall be effective for a period of one year only
from date of issuance and must be renewed annually.
   (D)   An application for an initial permit shall be accompanied by a check
in an amount as established by the town as application fee.
      (1)   Renewal of industrial and commercial waste discharge permit. The
application for a renewed waste discharge permit shall be of a form specified
by the proper town official or his or her designated agent, and the annual
renewal application fee shall be the same as the initial application fee.
      (2)   Industrial and commercial waste discharge permit form. The form of
permit for industrial and commercial wastes shall be as specified by the proper
Board official or his or her designated agent. Specific provisions for
continued acceptance by the town of the waste shall be attached to and made a
part of the permit to discharge, prechlorination or additional limitations on
waste characteristics not adequately described in this chapter, or may
prescribe pretreatment quality requirements for the waste flow in detail.
      (3)   Administration of permits. The administration of the industrial and
commercial waste discharge permit program and the application of the surcharge
formula imposes additional obligations on the town.
   (E)   The town, in addition to determining the waste flow volumes and
analyzing the waste strengths for development of the surcharge, must also keep
an accurate record of the permit applications, permits, meter installation
details, meter calibrations and must send to each establishment the necessary
renewal application forms in sufficient time to permit the establishment to
comply with the town’s requirements.
   (F)   The system of record-keeping for industrial and commercial permits
shall be substantially as follows.
      (1)   A ledger sheet for each establishment headed as follows:
         (a)   Name of industry/business;
         (b)   Address/location;
         (c)   Type of process;
         (d)   Initial permit application forms sent;
         (e)   Initial permit application forms received;
         (f)   Discharge analysis received;
         (g)   Permit issued, date;
         (h)   Meter details received;
         (i)   Meter details approved;
         (j)   Meter installation approved;
         (k)   Expiration date of initial permit;
         (l)   Date renewal permit application forms sent;
         (m)   Date renewal permit application forms received;
         (n)   Meter certification received;
         (o)   Analysis schedule required (if yes, attach schedule);
         (p)   Renewal permit issued, date;
         (q)   Expiration date of renewal permit; and
         (r)   Repeat divisions (l) through (q) above for future renewals.
      (2)   A ledger sheet for control of all permits as follows:
         (a)   Name of establishment;
         (b)   Initial permit application forms sent;
         (c)   Expiration date of initial permit;
         (d)   Date renewal forms to be sent;
         (e)   Expiration date of renewal permit;
         (f)   Date renewal forms to be sent;
         (g)   Expiration date of renewal permit;
         (h)   Date renewal forms to be sent;
         (i)   Expiration date of renewal permit; and
         (j)   Date renewal forms to be sent.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.34 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The proper official and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The official
or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source or discharge to the sewers of waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   The proper official and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.35 APPLICABILITY TO ALL USERS.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall apply to all users of the sewer
facilities within the town.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.36 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter shall
be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Persons found to be in violation of this subchapter beyond the time
period given above will be subject to the penalties in force by the Board. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the Board
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984) Penalty, see §
52.99
USER CHARGES AND INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
§ 52.50 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes the rate at which the customers of the sewer
system shall be charged. Provisions for surcharge to industrial clients are
also provided.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.51 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to that portion of the sewer system
located within the town, and any other portion controlled or operated by the
town.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.52 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. The abbreviation for biochemical oxygen demand or the quantity of
oxygen used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a specified time
(five days) at a specified temperature (20°C) and under specified conditions
(standard laboratory) expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The system of public sewers to be operated by franchisees
and governmental entities, or public sewers connected to such systems
collecting wastewater from point sources.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings,
commercial buildings, institutions and industry resulting from household or
toilet wastes resulting from human occupancy. It may or may not contain ground
water, surface water or storm water.
   GRANTEE. Recipient of a federal grant for all or a portion of a treatment
works as administered by the environmental protection agency.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. Recovery by a federal grantee from the
industrially classified users of a treatment works of the grant amount
allocable to the treatment of wastes from such users.
   INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE. A permit issued to control the industrial,
commercial or institutional process flows from users that may be discharged
into the sanitary sewer system. This permit is issued in addition to any other
types of permits. When issued, the permit will define the characteristics and
volume of the flow and acceptance or rejection of individual waste components.
   INDUSTRIALLY CLASSIFIED USER. An industrial or commercial user whose liquid
wastes are in part made up of flows related to industrial processes, as
distinct from an industrial or commercial user whose waste flows are primarily
domestic or resulting from human occupancy.
   mg/l (milligrams per liter). The quantity by weight of a minor constituent
present in a given volume of a solution or mixture, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   PERSON. Any individual, establishment, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment process facilities to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such facilities were designed and constructed.
   SHALL, MAY.  SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SURCHARGE. A charge levied on the users of the treatment works whose
wastewater discharge exceeds the parameters established for wastewater
strength.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and which are largely
removable by laboratory filtration.
   TREATMENT WORKS. The wastewater treatment plant, interceptors, force mains,
lift stations and collection systems.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on the users of the treatment process
facilities for the cost of operation and maintenance of such facilities and
other equitable and necessary charges.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.53 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   There is hereby imposed upon each customer served by the sewer system a
monthly user charge for the use thereof as follows.
   (A)   Sewer rates.
      (1)   A charge for waste based on a monthly charge per 1,000 gallons of
wastewater discharged into the sewer system applicable to all customers; and
      (2)   This user charge shall be based on the following.
         (a)   Charge levied on the town by the City of Boynton Beach for
transmission and treatment of all of the town’s sewage; and
         (b)   Charges incurred by the town in:
            1.   Operation and maintenance;
            2.   Capital cost; and
            3.   Other as applicable.
   (B)   Sewer surcharge. A surcharge for waste in excess of the parameters for
strength as established in the §
52.31(B), which may be assessed to all applicable customers. It is deemed that
in the majority of instances, such high-strength waste would affect only the
regional treatment facility. As such, all surcharge funds received by
individual collection systems shall be made payable to the town on a monthly
basis.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.54 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   There is hereby imposed upon the owners and upon the users of each
industrially classified property served by the sewer system an annual
industrial cost recovery assessment for the use thereof, subject to the
following rules, regulations and limitations.
   (A)   Industrial cost recovery will be administered in accordance with the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 and in accord with the
environmental protection agency guidelines.
   (B)   Industrial users shall be as defined under the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   (C)   Users that introduce primarily domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences are not required to pay an industrial cost recovery assessment.
   (D)   Industrially classified users which discharge less than 25,000 gpd of
industrial process flows shall be exempt from industrial cost recovery.
   (E)   Industrially classified users shall pay an assessment equal to the
amount of the federal grant allocable to the treatment of industrial waste flow
according to the formula as established herein.
   (F)   As a minimum, an industrially classified user’s assessment shall be
based on sewage flow as a percentage of treatment work capacity.
   (G)   If there is a substantial change in the volume introduced into the
treatment works by an industrially classified user, such user’s assessment
shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (H)   If there is an expansion of the treatment works capacity, each
existing industrially classified user’s assessment shall be adjusted as
required to maintain proportionality.
   (I)   A “significant” industrially classified user is one who will
contribute greater than 10% of the treatment works capacity. A letter of
agreement must be executed between the grantee and the significant user.
   (J)   An industrially classified user’s assessment shall include any firm
commitment to the grantee of increased use by such user.
   (K)   An industrially classified user’s assessment shall not include any
portion of the federal grant amount allocable to unused or unreserved capacity.
   (L)   An industrially classified user’s share shall not include an interest
component.
   (M)   Assessment will begin at the commencement of operation of treatment
works during which the federal grant amount is applied. Each industrially
classified user will pay its share of the applicable federal grant amount
divided by the recovery period of 30 years, or the service life of the
treatment works, whichever is less.
   (N)   Industrial cost recovery payments by a new industry shall begin on the
date use in initiated and shall continue for the unexpired portion of the
industrial cost recovery period or until the industry ceases use of the
facility, whichever occurs first. Discontinuance of use of treatment works by
an industrial user (including termination of any agreement for reserve
capacity) will nullify the requirement of an industrial cost recovery payment
from that user. There is no requirement for other industries presently using
the treatment works to assume that portion of industrial cost recovery which is
unrecovered due to the departure of an industrial user.
   (O)   Sewer users shall have the right to appear before the appropriate
governmental entity to appeal user charge and industrial cost recovery charges.
If the grievance is not satisfied, the matter may be turned over to a “Hearing
Board” for arbitration. The Hearing Board shall be the final arbitrator for
grievances regarding user charge and industrial cost recovery systems
interpretation and execution. The cost of the arbitration by the Hearing Board
shall be borne by the sewer system which provides wastewater collection service
to the sewer user. One member of the Board shall be a registered professional
engineer; one member shall be a practicing sanitary engineer; one member shall
be a member of industry or manufacturing enterprise; one member shall be a
lawyer; and one member shall be selected at large for his or her interest in
accomplishing the objectives of the user charge and industrial cost recovery
systems.
   (P)   Not later than 30 days after the industrial cost recovery period
begins, the Board will establish the accounting period for the industrial cost
recovery system and will notify the regional administrator in writing, of the
date of this implementation of the industrial cost recovery system. The first
payment to the Board by the industrial users shall be made not later than one
year after the beginning of the industrial cost recovery period.
   (Q)   The Board shall retain 50% of the amounts recovered from industrially
classified users. The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon,
shall be returned to the U.S. Treasury on an annual basis. A minimum of 80% of
the retained amounts, together with the interest earned thereon, shall be used
solely for the allowable costs of the expansion or reconstruction of treatment
works associated with the project and as necessary to meet the requirements of
the act. The Board shall obtain the written approval of the regional
administrator of EPA prior to commitment of the retained amounts for any
expansion and reconstruction. The remainder of the retained amounts may be used
as the Board desires. Pending use, the Board shall invest the retained amounts
for reconstruction and expansion in: obligations of the U.S. government; or
obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. government or
any agency thereof; or shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully
collateralized by obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by
the U.S. government, or any agency thereof.
   (R)   Illustration of cost computation.
METHOD OF CALCULATION FOR ANNUAL
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ASSESSMENT
1. Federal grant
   Design capacity   =   Cost per gallon
2. Cost per gallon x waste load
   service life   =   Annual assessment
Where    Federal grant represents the eligible federal share of the project
costs.
Where      Design capacity represents the treatment capacity of the wastewater
plant in gallons per day as established.
Where      Cost per gallon represents the cost per gallon as applied to the
federal grant.
Where      Waste load represents the wastewater load applicable to the
individual industrially classified user as complied on a daily basis (excluding
the quantity of domestic waste calculated for employee use).
EXAMPLE OF ASSESSMENT CALCULATIONS
FOR INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
Given:      1.   Ajax Mfg. Co. - 25,000* gallons (daily industrial process
waste load which excludes the quantity of domestic waste calculated for
employee use).
      2.   Total average daily design flow of the grant eligible items -
1,200,000 gallons.
      3.   Federal grant amount - $1,000,000.
      4.   Assumed life of the project - 30 years.
         1,000,000
         1,200,000 gallons      =   $0.83 cost per gallon
         $0.83 x 25,000 = $20,750 total assessment.
         $20,750
         30-year service life = $692 annual assessment
*This calculation assumes no changes in waste load over the 30-year usable life
of the project.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.55 APPLICABILITY.
   Regulations of this subchapter shall apply to all users of the regional
wastewater facilities.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.56 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the appropriate governmental entity with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be punished as hereinafter provided for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the appropriate governmental entity for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the entity or the regional wastewater facilities by reason of
such violation.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, may be fined in a sum not to exceed $100, or may be imprisoned for a
period not to exceed 30 days, or may be both so fined and imprisoned within the
discretion of the court. Any act which is a violation of this chapter and which
by its nature may be continuous, shall be deemed a separate violation for each
day such violation continues.
(Ord. 1-84, passed 8-23-1984)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
      
72.   BICYCLES
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
      
74.   IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
      
75.   GOLF CARTS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of state uniform traffic control law
   
70.02   Acceptance of state’s preemption of firearms and ammunition regulations
   
70.03   Duties of the Department of the Marshal
   
70.04   General duties and responsibilities of Traffic Engineer
   
70.05   Special duties and responsibilities of the Traffic Engineer
   
70.06   Traffic-control devices or signals; legend
   
70.07   Duty of drivers
   
70.08   Duty of police as to school zones
   
70.09   Parades, public gatherings and celebrations
   
70.10   Funeral procession
   
70.11   Blind or partially blind pedestrians
   
70.12   Designation of through streets
   
70.13   Regulations regarding approaching and passing a school bus
   
70.14   Operation of school buses regulated
   
70.15   Driving across sidewalk or other walkway to cross private property, to
cut corners or take a shortcut
   
70.16   Damaging streets and sidewalks
   
70.17   Placing injurious substances on streets
   
70.18   Parties to offenses
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL LAW.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the provisions of F.S. Ch. 316, the
Florida Uniform Traffic Control Law, which shall be in full force and effect in
the town as if fully set forth herein, except that no person shall be charged
under this chapter with a violation of the provisions of the aforesaid Florida
Uniform Traffic Control Law under the form or authority of a municipal
ordinance of the town if his or her actions include or arise from any activity
that is part of the entire field of regulation of firearms and ammunition
preempted by the state pursuant to F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future
amendments and revisions thereof as the same may be amended from time to time.
(1977 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 70.02 ACCEPTANCE OF STATE’S PREEMPTION OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby expressly recognizes and accepts the provisions of HB-
45 and F.S. § 790.33; and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as the
same may be amended from time to time, that preempt to the state the whole
field of regulation of firearms and ammunition. The town hereby expressly
repeals, in their entirety, all of the town’s municipal ordinances, rules and
regulations, and all amendments thereof, as from time to time the town has
heretofore adopted, that regulate or attempt to regulate firearms or ammunition
in any manner whatsoever. The town hereby disavows and disclaims that it has or
possesses any municipal power, right or governmental authority as a municipal
corporation of the state to regulate any part of the whole field of firearms or
ammunition in any manner whatsoever. All such municipal ordinances, rules and
regulations, and all amendments thereof, heretofore adopted by the town are
hereby declared to be repealed, abolished, abrogated, cancelled, annulled,
recalled and rescinded.
   (B)   On all matters arising from, involving, pertaining to or occupying the
whole field of regulation of firearms and ammunition, including the purchase,
sale, transfer, taxation, manufacture, ownership, possession, storage and
transportation thereof, the town is required to, and shall, enforce the state’s
firearms and ammunition laws to the exclusion of all existing and future
federal, county or municipal ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining
thereto.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 70.03 DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE MARSHAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Marshal with such aid as may be rendered by
other members of the Department of the Marshal to enforce the provisions of
this chapter and the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in this town, to
make arrests for traffic violations, to assist in the prosecution of persons
charged with such violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with the
Traffic Engineer and other officials of the town in the administration of the
traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions,
and to carry out those duties specially imposed by this chapter, the traffic
ordinances of this town, and any other applicable laws and ordinances.
(1977 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
§ 70.04 GENERAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   The position of Traffic Engineer is hereby established. The Traffic
Engineer shall be the Marshal of the town and shall exercise the powers and
duties provided for in this chapter, if the Traffic Engineer may be absent from
the town or incapable of performing his or her duties, the duties and powers of
the Traffic Engineer shall be vested in an officer of the Marshal’s Department
delegated by the Traffic Engineer.
   (B)   It is the general duty of the Traffic Engineer to plan and determine
the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic-control devices;
to plan and direct the operation of traffic on the streets of this town,
including parking areas; to conduct investigations of traffic conditions; to
cooperate with other municipal and state officials and to make recommendations
for the improvement of traffic movement and conditions, including improvements
in streets; and to carry out the additional powers and duties imposed by
ordinances of this town and F.S. Ch. 316.
(1977 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Miscellaneous offenses and provisions, see Title XIII
   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks, see §
130.09
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see F.S. Title XXII
§ 70.05 SPECIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   To designate through streets. The Traffic Engineer or such duly
appointed representative is hereby authorized to designate streets or parts of
such streets, as through streets.
   (B)   To erect stop signs at through streets. Whenever any ordinance of this
town designates and describes a through street or when any street is designated
as a through street by the Traffic Engineer, it shall be the duty of the
Traffic Engineer to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting such through street or intersecting that part thereof described
and designated as such by any ordinance of this town, except at those
intersections which are controlled by automatic signals or other traffic-
control devices.
   (C)   To erect stop signs at other than through streets. The Traffic
Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where a
particular hazard exists upon other than through streets and to determine
whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such intersection,
and shall erect a stop sign at every place where he or she shall find a stop
required, except at those intersections which are controlled by automatic
signals or other traffic-control devices.
   (D)   To place, and obedience to turning markers. The Traffic Engineer is
authorized to place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to
intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this chapter be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall
turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by such
markers, buttons or signs.
   (E)   To place restricted turn signs. The Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to determine those streets or intersections of such streets from
which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall
place proper signs upon such streets and at such intersections. The making of
such turns may be prohibited between the hours of any day and permitted at
other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or
they may be removed when such turns are unrestricted.
   (F)   To determine streets and highways where angle parking permitted. The
Traffic Engineer shall determine the location of angle parking zones, and shall
erect and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and giving notice
thereof.
   (G)   To prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or parking of vehicles. The
Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to prohibit or restrict the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles on any street of this town, and to erect signs
giving notice thereof, in his or her opinion, such stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles interferes with the movement of traffic thereon. Such signs
shall be official signs, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the signs.
   (H)   To prohibit parking on narrow streets. The Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to prohibit parking upon any street when the width of the roadway
does not exceed 20 feet, or upon one side of a street when the width of the
roadway does not exceed 30 feet, and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (I)   To prohibit standing or parking on one-way streets. The Traffic
Engineer is authorized to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles upon the
left-hand side of any one-way street and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (J)   To permit parking on one-way streets. The Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine when standing or parking of vehicles upon the left-hand
side of any one-way street and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (K)   To restrict stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested
places. The Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to designate by proper signs,
places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (L)   To designate curb loading zones. The Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to determine the location of passenger and freight curb loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
   (M)   To designate public carrier stands. The Traffic Engineer is hereby
authorized to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for
other passenger common-carrier motor vehicles on such public streets, in such
places and in such number as he or she shall determine to be of the greatest
benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab
stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   (N)   To designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark traffic
lanes.
      (1)   To designate and maintain by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, within the jurisdiction of this town,
crosswalks at those places where he or she shall find that there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and when he or she shall further
find that the existence of a crosswalk will reduce that danger.
      (2)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places where he or she shall find that there is particular danger to
pedestrians, and which are consistent with state law, and where he or she shall
find that the existence of a safety zone will reduce that danger.
   (O)   To sign one-way streets, roadways and alleys. Whenever any ordinance
of this town designates any one-way street, roadway or alley the Traffic
Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such
regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (P)   To mark lanes.
      (1)   The Traffic Engineer is authorized to mark lanes upon the roadway
of any street where he or she shall find that a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary in the interests of safety and efficiency, or at such places as he or
she may find to be advisable, consistent with the traffic ordinances of this
town and state law.
      (2)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be a violation
of this chapter for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such
vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing
another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
   (Q)   To prohibit all-night parking. The Traffic Engineer is authorized to
prohibit all-night parking, and to erect signs giving notice thereof, upon any
street or portion thereof, whenever in his or her opinion such prohibition is
necessary or advisable in the interest of public safety. No person, except
physicians or other persons on emergency calls, shall park a vehicle on any
street marked to prohibit all-night parking and giving notice thereof, for a
period of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m. of any day.
   (R)   To prohibit parking at all times at certain places. The Traffic
Engineer shall designate certain places where parking shall be prohibited at
all times and shall erect signs giving notice thereof.
   (S)   To limit parking time on certain streets. The Traffic Engineer shall
erect signs in each block limiting the parking time on certain streets and
giving notice thereof.
   (T)   To impose restrictions upon, use of streets. The Traffic Engineer is
hereby authorized to prohibit the use of the roadway by farm tractors,
trailers, semi-trailers and by trucks or other commercial vehicles, and to
impose limitations as to the weight thereof on designated streets where in his
or her opinion the public safety is concerned, but said prohibitions and
limitations shall not become effective until notice thereof is given by means
of appropriate signs placed on such streets.
(1977 Code, § 16-4) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR SIGNALS; LEGEND.
   (A)   At street intersections where official traffic-control devices or
signal indicates right-of-way, the showing of a yellow light indicates caution
and the showing of a red light shall require a full stop. Upon approaching any
such intersection, if the red light or yellow light is showing, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop before the first pedestrian line and remain until the
green light shows. If the lights shift from green to yellow after the vehicle
has passed the pedestrian line, the vehicle may continue.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to stop so as to obstruct the
space reserved for pedestrians.
(1977 Code, § 16-5) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Uniform signals and devices, see F.S. §§ 316.0745 et seq.
§ 70.07 DUTY OF DRIVERS.
   All vehicles approaching an intersection where official traffic-control
devices or signs are installed shall come to a full stop back of the first
pedestrian line unless the traffic-control device or signal indicates that they
have the right-of-way at that point.
(1977 Code, § 16-6) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 DUTY OF POLICE AS TO SCHOOL ZONES.
   The Police Department shall determine, upon the basis of a traffic
investigation, the portions of the streets of the town which should be included
within school zones in order to protect children approaching or leaving both
public and private schools located within the town, and shall place at the
outside limits of such school zones, during the hours such portions of such
streets are likely to be used by school children, appropriate signs giving
notice of such school zone, and of the speed limit permitted therein.
(1977 Code, § 16-7) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 PARADES, PUBLIC GATHERINGS AND CELEBRATIONS.
   Whenever the town gives a permit for any parade, public gathering or
celebration, the Chief of Police may order any street to be cleared of all
vehicles during such parade, public gathering or celebration. No person shall
fail to comply with the directions of any police officer in carrying out such
orders.
   (1977 Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see F.S. § 316.008(1)(c)
§ 70.10 FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be driven through or in and out of a
funeral procession or parade, except by permission of a police officer or Town
Marshal and under his or her direction; provided, this shall not apply to Fire
Department, Police Department vehicles and ambulances answering emergency
calls.
(1977 Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate professions, see F.S. § 316.008(1)(c)
§ 70.11 BLIND OR PARTIALLY BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those partially or totally
blind, to carry or use on the public sidewalks or streets in the town any cane
or walking stick which is white with a red end or bottom. Such cane or walking
stick may be used on the sidewalks or streets only by a person who is partially
or totally blind as a means of protection from vehicles and pedestrians.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a vehicle, or any pedestrian who is not
partially or totally blind, who approaches or comes in contact with a person
partially or totally blind carrying a cane or walking stick which is white with
a red end or bottom, shall come to a full stop and permit such partially or
totally blind person to cross such sidewalk or street of the town before
proceeding. Such driver, operator or pedestrian shall also take such other
precautions before proceeding as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury
to the person carrying such walking stick.
(1977 Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulations to assist blind pedestrians, see F.S. § 316.1301
§ 70.12 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   For provisions on through streets, see
Chapter 76, Schedule II.
§ 70.13 REGULATIONS REGARDING APPROACHING AND PASSING A SCHOOL BUS.
   Every person using, operating or driving a motor vehicle upon or over the
public streets and highways of the town, approaching in the same or opposite
direction any bus or other motor vehicle used in transporting school children
to or from school, while such bus or other motor vehicle is stopped or engaged
in taking on or discharging school children therefrom upon the streets and
highways of the town, is required to bring such motor vehicle to a full stop
before passing such school bus or other motor vehicle, provided such school bus
or such motor vehicle used in transporting school children is clearly marked
for identification with the words “SCHOOL BUS”.
(1977 Code, § 16-13) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic to stop for school bus, see F.S. § 316.172
§ 70.14 OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES REGULATED.
   All school bus drivers are hereby required to stop such school bus on the
right-hand side of any road or street as close to the curb or edge of the road
as practicable.
   (1977 Code, § 16-14) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see F.S. § 316.172(3)
§ 70.15 DRIVING ACROSS SIDEWALK OR OTHER WALKWAY TO CROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY, TO
CUT CORNERS OR TAKE A SHORT CUT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving or operating any vehicle
to cross any sidewalk or other walkway in the town for the purpose of driving
across private property in order to cut corners or to take short cuts whether
or not there shall be a driveway constructed across such sidewalk or walkway at
the place of crossing. This section shall not render it illegal to cross any
sidewalk or walkway at any place where a driveway has been constructed for the
purpose of entering private property for the transaction of any lawful business
thereon.
   (B)   If any person shall so drive any vehicle across any sidewalk or
walkway the fact that he or she shall not bring the vehicle to a full stop upon
such private property shall be prima facie evidence that he or she did not
enter such private property for the purpose of transacting any lawful business
thereon.
(1977 Code, § 16-15) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Driving upon sidewalk, see F.S. § 316.1995
§ 70.16 DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle or other
thing or vehicle over the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the town in such a
manner as to damage the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
(1977 Code, § 16-17) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Injurious substances, F.S. § 316.2035
§ 70.17 PLACING INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS.
   Whoever knowingly or willfully breaks, places or leaves any glass or other
dangerous substance or material upon any of the streets, alleys or other public
ways of the town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 16-18) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see F.S. § 316.2035(1)
§ 70.18 PARTIES TO OFFENSES.
   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aids
or abets in the committing of, any act declared herein to be in violation of
this chapter, whether individually, or in connection with one or more other
persons, or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such
offense, and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully
induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any
provision of this chapter is likewise guilty of such offense.
(1977 Code, § 16-19) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
Section
   
71.01   Establishment; presiding officer
   
71.02   Qualifications, appointment, term and removal of Municipal
Administrative Judge
   
71.03   Functions and powers
        
71.04   Clerk and executive officer
   
71.05   Procedures
   
71.06   Disposition of fines
   
71.07   Records
   
71.08   Certification to State Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles
§ 71.01 ESTABLISHMENT; PRESIDING OFFICER.
   There is hereby established a traffic infractions administrative hearing,
which shall be presided over by an official with the title of Municipal
Administrative Judge, who shall be responsible for hearing noncriminal traffic
infractions as provided for in F.S. Chs. 316 and 318 as hereafter amended and
the town traffic ordinances.
(1977 Code, § 16-31) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.02 QUALIFICATIONS, APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF MUNICIPAL
ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE.
   The Municipal Administrative Judge shall be an elector of the county and a
member of the bar in good standing. He or she shall be appointed by the Town
Council for a term of one year commencing January 4, 1977, and may thereafter
be reappointed for additional one-year terms by a majority vote of the Town
Council. He or she may be suspended or removed from office by four-fifths vote
of the Town Council. The Town Council shall fill any vacancy in this office for
the unexpired term; and it shall also appoint members of the state bar, having
the qualifications prescribed in this section for the Administrative Judge as
Judges Ad Litem to serve whenever the Municipal Administrative Judge is
temporarily unable to serve in any manner coming before the traffic infractions
administrative hearing, whether from absence, illness, disqualification or any
other cause. Any person so appointed shall for the duration of his appointment
be barred from practicing before the hearing.
(1977 Code, § 16-32) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.03 FUNCTIONS AND POWERS.
   The traffic infractions administrative hearing shall hear all cases of
noncriminal traffic infractions as provided for in F.S. Chs. 316 and 318 as
hereafter amended. The functions and powers of the traffic infractions
administrative hearing shall be those as provided in F.S. Ch. 318 as hereafter
amended.
(1977 Code, § 16-33) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see
Chapter 30
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Disposition of Traffic Infractions Act, see F.S. Ch. 318
§ 71.04 CLERK AND EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Town Clerk shall attend or shall designate a Deputy Town Clerk to attend
all sessions of the traffic infractions administrative hearing, to prepare and
maintain its records under the direction of the Municipal Administrative Judge
and to perform any duties pertaining to the office of Clerk of the traffic
infractions administrative hearing. The Marshal shall designate a Deputy
Marshal to serve as the executive officer of the traffic infractions
administrative hearing and to enforce order thereat under the direction of the
Municipal Administrative Judge.
(1977 Code, § 16-34) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.05 PROCEDURES.
   The procedures to be followed by the traffic infractions administrative
hearing shall be:
   (A)   In accordance with those procedures as specified in F.S. Ch. 318, and
as hereafter amended;
   (B)   In accordance with due process, however hearings shall be informal and
shall not be bound by formal rules of evidence; the findings, however shall be
based upon competent substantial evidence of record; and
   (C)   The Municipal Administrative Judge or the person cited for the traffic
infraction may call or subpoena any person or record for the purpose of
ascertaining the facts.
(1977 Code, § 16-35) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.06 DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   All fines, penalties and fees collected by the traffic infractions
administrative hearing shall be revenue of the town and shall be paid forthwith
to the Town Treasurer, except as may be otherwise provided by law.
(1977 Code, § 16-36) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.07 RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk or Deputy Town Clerk shall prepare and maintain a record of
the official acts of the traffic infractions administrative hearing. This
record shall set forth the substance of the charges preferred against each
person brought before the traffic infractions administrative hearing and the
decision rendered in each case.
(1977 Code, § 16-37) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
§ 71.08 CERTIFICATION TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAY SAFETY AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The Municipal Administrative Judge shall certify to the State Department of
Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles within ten days after payment of the civil
penalty or forfeiture of bond that the person has admitted to the infraction.
If the charge results in a hearing, the official having jurisdiction shall
certify to the department the final disposition within ten days of the hearing.
(1977 Code, § 16-38) (Ord. 5-76, passed 9-23-1976)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES
Section
   
72.01   Bell or horn required
   
72.02   Lights
   
72.03   Observance of vehicular directional traffic regulations
   
72.04   Careless riding
   
72.05   Hitching onto motor vehicles
   
72.06   Riding on sidewalks, parkways or park lawns
§ 72.01 BELL OR HORN REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle while in use on any street in the town shall be provided with
a suitable bell or horn.
(1977 Code, § 16-50) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963)
§ 72.02 LIGHTS.
   (A)   After sundown, every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front, and a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear, except that a red reflector meeting the
requirements of this section may be used in lieu of the red light.
   (B)   All such lamps and reflectors shall be in place and in operation
whenever a bicycle is operated after sundown.
(1977 Code, § 16-51) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations, see F.S. § 316.2065
§ 72.03 OBSERVANCE OF VEHICULAR DIRECTIONAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Bicycle riders shall observe all directional vehicular traffic regulations.
(1977 Code, § 16-52) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 CARELESS RIDING.
   Riding a bicycle in a careless and reckless manner so as to endanger the
lives of persons traveling on or using the public streets is hereby prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 16-53) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 HITCHING ONTO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding any bicycle shall hold onto or hitch onto any motor vehicle
while the same is in motion.
(1977 Code, § 16-54) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS, PARKWAYS OR PARK LAWNS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk or parkway or park lawn in
the town.
(1977 Code, § 16-55) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Manner of parking generally; parallel parking
   
73.02   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.03   Stopping of buses and taxicabs
   
73.04   Use of bus and taxicab stands restricted
   
73.05   Obstruction of alleys
   
73.06   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
73.07   Parking on sidewalks prohibited
   
73.08   Parking prohibited
   
73.09   Notice on illegally parked vehicle
   
73.10   Failure to comply with notice attached to parked vehicle
   
73.11   Presumption in reference to illegal parking, operating, stopping and
the like
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 MANNER OF PARKING GENERALLY; PARALLEL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street of the town other than
parallel with the edge of the curb or paved roadway, and with the curb side
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or paved edge of the
roadway, except as follows:
   (A)   Upon those portions of streets which have been marked or signed for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such mark or signs, and within the mark or signs, with a wheel against the
curb; and/or
   (B)   In places where stopping for the loading or unloading of merchandise
or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the transportation of merchandise
or material shall park so as not to block traffic, except by permission of the
Chief of Police or Town Marshal.
(1977 Code, § 16-67) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional parking regulations, see F.S. § 316.195
   Authority to regulate stopping, standing or parking, see F.S. § 316.008(1)
(a)
   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places, see F.S. §
316.1945
§ 73.02 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Displaying advertising;
   (D)   Selling merchandise from such vehicle except in a duly established
market place, or when so authorized or licensed under the ordinances of this
town; or
   (E)   Storage, or as junkage or dead storage for more than 24 hours.
(1977 Code, § 16-68) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
§ 73.03 STOPPING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS.
   The operator of a bus or taxicab shall not stop, stand or park upon any
street in any business district at any place other than at a bus stop, or
taxicab stand, respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the
operator of any such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other
stopping, standing or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and
while engaged in the expeditious unloading of passengers.
(1977 Code, § 16-70) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when such stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in expeditious loading or unloading of passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone.
(1977 Code, § 16-71) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OBSTRUCTION OF ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in a
business district, except for the expeditious loading or unloading of
materials, and in no event for a period of more than 20 minutes, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any other alley in such a manner, or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property.
(1977 Code, § 16-72) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Where streets are not completely paved or curbs provided, the parking
of a car shall not usurp more than 12 inches of the paved portion of the
street.
(1977 Code, § 16-73) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 PARKING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any self-propelled vehicle or
conveyance on any sidewalk at any hour of the day or night within the town.
(1977 Code, § 16-74) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle of any kind at any
hour of the day or night on either side of Old Ocean Boulevard within the
limits of the town.
(1977 Code, § 16-69) (Ord. 1-74, passed 11-22-1974) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked, stopped or
standing, in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this
town, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number, and
may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its
user, and shall conspicuously affix to such a vehicle a traffic citation or
notice in writing, on a form provided by the Town Clerk, for the driver to
answer the charge against him or her within 48 hours, during the hours and at a
place specified in the notice.
(1977 Code, § 16-75) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking under the
town ordinances does not appear in response to a notice or citation affixed to
such motor vehicle within a period of 48 hours, the Clerk of the Traffic
Violations Bureau shall send the owner of the motor vehicle to which the notice
or citation was affixed, a letter informing him or her of the violation, and
warning him or her that if such letter is disregarded for a period of five days
a warrant of arrest will be issued.
(1977 Code, § 16-76) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING, OPERATING, STOPPING AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any ordinance governing the
stopping, standing, parking or operating of a vehicle, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or operated in
violation of any such ordinance or regulation, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such parking or operating
the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima
facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who
stopped, stood, parked or operated such vehicle at the point where, and for the
time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedures
as prescribed in §
73.07 have been followed.
(1977 Code, § 16-77) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   A minimum fine of $30 is hereby levied for each violation of this chapter
regulating the parking of motor vehicles within the town. The amount of the
minimum fine shall appear on the traffic citation forms issued for parking
infractions.
(Ord. 1-98, passed 4-23-1998)
CHAPTER 74: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Authority to impound vehicles
   
74.02   Notice
   
74.03   Redemption of impounded vehicle
§ 74.01 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or by this town,
under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, causeway or
viaduct, or in any subway, where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic, or the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody and removal;
      (3)   When a vehicle is found being operated upon the streets and is not
in proper condition;
      (4)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      (5)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street continuously for
more than 24 hours and may be presumed to be abandoned;
      (6)   When the driver of such vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department and such vehicle would thereby be left unattended upon a street;
      (7)   When removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm or other emergency reason;
      (8)   When any vehicle is parked in an area that is designated no parking
by proper signs stating “Tow Away Zone”; or
      (9)   When any self-propelled vehicle is left unattended on any portion
of any sidewalk at any hour of the day or night.
   (B)   Any violator taken into custody may at the discretion of the Police
Magistrate be released without posting bond, if the violator agrees to the
impounding authorized by this section of the vehicle owned and driven by the
violator or to surrender his or her driver’s license to insure the violator’s
appearance in the court to answer the charges against same and pay such fine as
may be assessed against the violator.
(1977 Code, § 16-88) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
§ 74.02 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or sidewalk as
authorized in §
74.01, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain the name and address of
the owner thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given
notice in writing to such owner of the fact of such removal, and the reasons
therefor, and the place to which such vehicle has been removed. If any such
vehicle is stored in an authorized garage, a copy of such notice shall be given
to the proprietor of such garage.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or sidewalk under
§
74.01 and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or
for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore
provided, and if the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of
three days, then and in that event the officer shall immediately send or cause
to be sent written report of such removal by mail to the Department of Motor
Vehicles, and shall file copy of such notice with the proprietor of any
authorized garage in which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice shall include
a complete description of the vehicle, the date, time and place from which
removed, the reasons for such removal, and the name of the garage or place
where the vehicle is stored.
(1977 Code, § 16-89) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
§ 74.03 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   No vehicle impounded in an authorized garage as provided in §
74.01 shall be released therefrom until the charges for towing such vehicle
into the garage, and storage charges have been paid. The charge for towing or
removal of any such vehicle and storage charges shall be fixed by the Police
Magistrate, such charges to be based upon a computation of all actual expenses
entering into the current cost of such services. Such charges shall be posted
by public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk or the Traffic Violations
Bureau, and in any authorized garage.
(1977 Code, § 16-90) (Ord. 2-75, passed 4-24-1975)
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Findings of fact
   
75.02   Purpose and intent
   
75.03   Legislative intent
   
75.04   Definitions
   
75.05   Authorized use
§ 75.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The town hereby finds that the recitations contained in the preamble of the
ordinance codified herein are true and correct and the same are incorporated
herein by reference as legislative findings of fact.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 75.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter authorizes the safe and responsible use of golf carts.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 75.03 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is the intent of this section to permit and regulate the use of golf
carts within the designated streets of the town.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 75.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED STREETS. All streets within the town’s territorial limits, except
state roads.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that is designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable
of exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 5-28-2015)
§ 75.05 AUTHORIZED USE.
   Licensed drivers may operate golf carts on all designated streets within the
town in compliance with the following.
   (A)   Golf carts must be equipped with: efficient brakes, reliable steering
apparatus, safe tires, a rearview mirror and red reflectorized warning devices
in both the front and rear.
   (B)   Golf carts may be operated on the designated streets within the town
limits of the town during the hours between sunrise and sunset.
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated on the designated streets within the town
limits during the hours between sunset and sunrise only if the golf cart is
equipped with: headlights, brake lights, turn signals and a windshield, in
addition to all other equipment required by division (A) above.
   (D)   Golf carts may be operated on the sidewalk adjacent to state roads and
highways within the jurisdictional territory of the town only when the sidewalk
is at least eight feet in width.
   (E)   The maximum speed of golf carts operated on the designated streets is
limited to 15 mph, unless a slower speed limit is posted. If a slower speed
limit is posted, the maximum speed of the golf cart shall be limited to said
posted speed limit.
   (F)   The maximum speed of golf carts operated on an authorized sidewalk
noted in division (D) above is limited to five mph.
   (G)   The town shall post appropriate signs or otherwise informs residents
that the ordinance exists and applies to such sidewalks.
   (H)   Except as specifically provided herein, operators of golf carts within
the town are required to observe all other traffic laws as if they were
operating a motor vehicle.
   (I)   Operation of golf carts on State Road A1A/North Ocean Boulevard is not
permitted except pursuant to authorization from the State Department of
Transportation pursuant to F.S. Ch. 316, and shall only be at golf cart
approved intersections regulated by an approved traffic-control device and
shall be solely for the purpose of crossing the state road to reach the town
streets and property on the other side thereof.
   (J)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, every driver of a
vehicle, including a golf cart, shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian. Every driver of a vehicle, including a golf cart, shall yield
to pedestrians at all times.
(Ord. 2-2015, passed 5-28-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   No through truck zones
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to propel, drive or operate any
vehicle of any kind whatsoever in the town at a speed in excess of ten mph,
except upon Highway A1A.
   (B)   The maximum speed on the following residential streets within the town
shall be 20 mph: Briny Breezes Boulevard; Old Ocean Boulevard. Violation of the
speed limit established under this division (B) shall be cited as a moving
violation, punishable as provided in F.S. Ch. 318.
(1977 Code, § 16-12) (Ord. 5-63, passed 11-27-1963; Ord. 1-02, passed 5-23-
2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets, roads and avenues shall be known as, and are hereby
designated as through streets, and vehicular traffic thereon shall have the
right-of-way, except where traffic lights are in operation: State Road A1A.
(1977 Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. NO THROUGH TRUCK ZONES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      TRUCK. As used in this schedule and only in this schedule, shall be
defined as:
         (a)   Every motor vehicle with three or more axles including any
attached trailer; or
         (b)   Every motor vehicle designed or operated for the transportation
of materials or property with a rated capacity over one ton (2,000 pounds).
   (B)   No through truck zones. The entire length of all of the following
roads within the Town of Briny Breezes are hereby designated as "No Through
Truck Zones":
      (1)   Old Ocean Boulevard.
      (2)   Cordova Avenue.
      (3)   Juniper Drive.
      (4)   Hibiscus Drive.
      (5)   Ruthmary Avenue.
      (6)   Cedar Drive.
      (7)   Bamboo Drive.
      (8)   West Cordova Avenue.
      (9)   Marina Drive.
      (10)   West Cedar Drive.
      (11)   West Bamboo Drive.
      (12)   Mallard Drive.
      (13)   North Ibis Drive.
      (14)   South Ibis Drive.
      (15)   North Heron Drive.
      (16)   South Heron Drive.
      (17)   Flamingo Drive.
      (18)   Lark Drive.
      (19)   Java Drive.
      (20)   Palm Drive.
      (21)   Dock Drive.
      (22)   Bay Drive.
      (23)   Eagle Drive.
      (24)   Cardinal Drive.
      (25)   Banyan Boulevard.
   (C)   Placement of traffic control devices. Appropriate signs designating
the "No Through Truck Zones" shall be erected at or near the roadways which are
subject to this section as directed by the Town Marshal or by resolution of the
Town Council. The signs may use pictures or words or any combination thereof,
to provide reasonable notification of the existence and location of "No Through
Truck Zones." Examples, without limitation: "NO THRU TRUCKS" and/or "NO
VEHICLES THREE OR MORE AXLES."
   (D)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any truck, as defined in this
schedule, to travel on any road marked with a traffic control device (sign)
designating the road as a "No Through Truck Zone" unless excepted under
division (E).
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Restrictions set forth in this schedule shall not apply to any of
the following vehicles:
         (a)   Any vehicle whose destination is within a "No Through Truck
Zone” for the benefit of, or at the request of, a resident or owner within the
"No Through Truck Zone."
         (b)   Utility service vehicles providing services to residents or
owners within a "No Through Truck Zone."
         (c)   Utility service vehicles servicing equipment located within a
"No Through Truck Zone."
         (d)   Public service vehicles.
         (e)   Emergency service vehicles.
         (f)   Vehicles for the delivery and set up of a mobile or manufactured
home.
         (g)   Construction related delivery or equipment activities when a
permit has been issued by the Building Official for said construction within a
"No Through Truck Zone."
         (h)   Construction related delivery or equipment activities of the
town.
         (i)   As may be necessary or advisable for the performance of any
governmental use or service within the town during any emergency duly declared
by Town Council resolution or pursuant to the statutory or constitutional
powers of a Florida State public official or a Federal Government public
official.
      (2)   Any person driving or in charge of a truck within a "No Through
Truck Zone," as those terms are defined in this schedule, shall be prepared to
present for the inspection of police officers the truck’s log book, weight slip
or placard, delivery slips, or other written evidence of the truck's origin,
rated capacity, and destination to justify their presence in a "No Through
Truck Zone" or the application of any exception stated in this schedule.
   (F)   Penalty. The Town Marshal shall enforce the provisions of this
schedule. A violation of this schedule is a noncriminal traffic infraction,
punishable as a moving violation as provided in F.S. Chapter 318, as the same
may be amended.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 5-26-2016)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   BEACHES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Control of Dogs
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisance
   
90.03   Impoundment
   
90.04   Disturbing the peace
   
90.05   Damaging property of another
   
90.06   Vicious and dangerous dogs
   
90.07   Poisoning
 
   
90.99   Penalty
CONTROL OF DOGS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Beyond the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner, or the owner’s agent, either by leash, cord or other means of mechanical
restraint.
   DOG. Any canine of whatever breed or gender.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a dog.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974)
§ 90.02 NUISANCE.
   Any dog found in the town running at large or violating any conditions of
this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be impounded as
herein provided.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974)
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Chief of Police, or other public safety officers of the town, shall
impound any dog found running at large or violating any of the conditions of
this chapter and shall forthwith deliver such dog to the nearest Humane Society
to be dealt with insofar as redemption or disposal is concerned in accordance
with the rules and regulations of such Society.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974)
§ 90.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person owning any dog shall permit such dog to disturb the peace and
quiet of the town by barking, making other loud or unusual noises, or by
running through, across or depositing waste upon, any cultivated grounds,
fields or lawns within the town limits.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DAMAGING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any dog to
allow or permit such dog to wander or stray upon the property of another and
damage the same.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
attempts to bite other persons or which has bitten or has a propensity to bite
other people. Any such dog shall be considered to be a vicious dog and any
public safety officer may destroy such dog without impounding the same or
giving notice to the owner.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to poison any dog or distribute poison in any manner
with the intent or manner of poisoning any dog.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner or any other person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall upon conviction therefore be penalized by a fine of not less than
$10 or more than $50 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 6-73, passed 1-24-1974)
CHAPTER 91: BEACHES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Rules and regulations for use of private and public beaches
Sea Turtles
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Lighting restriction along beach
   
91.17   Street and park lighting
   
91.18   Reserved
   
91.19   Future development
   
91.20   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC BEACHES.
   All persons using the private and public beaches within the town shall
comply with and abide by the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   No person shall dress or undress on the beach except in taking off or
putting on dressing robes and shoes.
   (B)   No person shall be dressed indecently or act indecently or be attired
in indecent apparel.
   (C)   No person shall take any dog, cat or other animal or pet upon either
the private or public beaches.
   (D)   No person shall place or deposit on the private or public beaches any
newspapers, cans, bottles or other trash or refuse, but rather shall deposit
the same in receptacles prepared therefor.
   (E)   No person shall sell or barter any article of personal property,
tangible or intangible, on any of the private or public beaches.
   (F)   No person shall use loud, boisterous or profane language upon the
private or public beaches.
(Ord. 7-73, passed 1-24-1974) Penalty, see §
91.99
SEA TURTLES
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the sea turtles which nest
along the beaches of the town, by safeguarding the sea turtles and their
hatchlings.
(Ord. 2-87, passed 1-28-1988; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
§ 91.16 LIGHTING RESTRICTION ALONG BEACH.
   All oceanfront property owners are strongly encouraged to ensure that no
artificial light shall illuminate any area of the beach which may be used for
sea turtle nesting and hatchlings. In order to accomplish this, the town
strongly encourages that all artificial lighting installed and operating on
oceanfront property shall produce only long wavelength light (560 nm or
greater, which is amber, orange, or red) or be positioned or shielded so that
the light source is not visible from the beach during the night period from
March 1 to October 31 of each year. The “night period” is defined herein as
being that time after 10:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m the next morning.
(Ord. 2-87, passed 1-28-1988; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
§ 91.17 STREET AND PARK LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street lights shall be located so that the bulk of their illumination
will travel away from the beach. Such lights shall produce only long wavelength
light (560 nm or greater, which is amber, orange, or red) or be equipped with
shades or shields that will, to the extent practical, prevent backlighting and
render such lights not visible from the beach. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Town Council, upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police, may authorize
an exception where public safety requires.
   (B)   Lights at parks and beach access points shall be properly positioned
or shielded or, to the extent same are determined by the town not to be
necessary for public safety purposes, shall not be utilized during the period
from March 1 to October 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2-87, passed 1-28-1988; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
§ 91.18 RESERVED.
§ 91.19 FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.
   Future oceanfront development shall comply with applicable provisions of
Palm Beach County’s turtle protection regulations as specified in Article 14
Chapter A of the Palm Beach County Unified Land Development Code. No building
permit, site plan approval, certificate of occupancy or other development
approval shall be issued by the town until all applicable requirements of the
county’s turtle protection regulations have been met.
(Ord. 2-87, passed 1-28-1988; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town, via the Police Department, shall enforce applicable federal and
state laws and this subchapter if damage to sea turtles, sea turtle nests or
hatchlings is observed and in addition, the Police Department shall promptly
notify the Florida Department of Environmental Protection or other federal or
state regulatory agencies for their additional enforcement assistance and their
direct supervision and assistance to relocate nests and/or hatchlings.
(Ord. 2-87, passed 1-28-1988; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 7-73, passed 1-24-1974; Ord. 06-2022, passed 1-26-2023; Ord. 01-2024,
passed 9-26-2024)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   Permit required for building a fire
   
92.02   Adoption of Standard Fire Prevention Code
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BUILDING A FIRE.
   (A)   No bonfires or other fires shall be permitted on the public or private
beaches during sea turtle nesting season from March 1 through October 31 of
each year. Bonfires and other fires at any other time shall only be permitted
with a town issued permit.
   (B)   Fires on any beach in the town from November 1 through February 28 (29
in a leap year) of the following year are allowed with a town permit. Whoever
shall build a fire on any lot, street, alley, park, beach or other public place
within the town, without first obtaining a permit from the town, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, however, small fires in an enclosed
fire-rated pit or container and propane-operated equipment are allowed without
a town permit, provided in no event such small fire or propane-operated
equipment shall become a neighborhood nuisance. Rubbish fires are prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 01-2024, passed 9-26-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ADOPTION OF STANDARD FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The National Fire Code, 1985 edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, which code is also known aid may be cited as “NFPA 1”,
or “NFPA Pamphlet 1”, and the Life Safety Code, 1985 edition, published by the
National Fire Protection Association, which code is also known and may be cited
as “NFPA 101”, are hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the town, subject to such
amendments, additions and deletions as shall appear in the chapter.
(1977 Code, § 9-16) (Ord. 1-88, passed 7-28-1988) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and building regulations, see §§
153.120 through
153.125
Statutory reference:
   Fire prevention and control, see F.S. Ch. 683
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.01 may be fined in a sum not to exceed $100, or may be imprisoned for a
period not to exceed 30 days, or may be both so fined and imprisoned within the
discretion of the court. Each day an offense continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(1977 Code, § 9-1)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of the National Fire Code, 1985
edition or the Life Safety Code, 1985 edition (§
92.02), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of no more than
$250 or imprisonment for a period of not more than 30 days for each offense.
(1977 Code, § 9-17) (Ord. 7-76, passed 5-27-1976; Ord. 1-88, passed 7-28-1988)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   County impact fees; conflict
§ 93.01 COUNTY IMPACT FEES; CONFLICT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section that a “conflict” be established, as
the term is used in Article VIII, § 1(f) of the 1968 Florida Constitution,
between the provisions of this section and Ord. 79-7, known as the “Fair-Share
Contribution for Road Improvements Ordinance”, enacted by the Board of County
Commissioners of Palm Beach County, Florida, effective July 11, 1979. It is the
intent of the Town Council that no portion of said county ordinance shall be
applicable within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The town shall not collect the road improvements impact fees as
described in the aforesaid county ordinance.
(1977 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 2-1979, passed 8-23-1979)
CHAPTER 94: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Emergency and Disaster Management
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Applicability
   
94.03   Emergency management structure
   
94.04   Powers, duties and responsibilities of the Director of Emergency
Management
   
94.05   Declaration of a state of emergency
Civil Disorder Management
   
94.31   Definition
   
94.32   Declaration of a civil disorder or disturbance
   
94.33   Declaration term and termination
EMERGENCY AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. Any natural, technological or other emergency that causes damage
of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in the declaration of a state of
emergency by the Town of Briny Breezes, Palm Beach County, the Governor of
Florida or the President of the United States.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or threat thereof whether natural, technological
or human-made, in war or in peace, which results or may result in substantial
injury or harm to the health, safety or welfare of the town population,
including visitors within the town's jurisdiction, or substantial damage to or
loss of public or private property.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for, the mitigation of, the response
to, and/or the recovery from emergencies and disasters.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS MANUAL. The document approved and adopted by the Town
Council to guide activities in the town related to emergency management.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.02 APPLICABILITY.
   All boards, officers, employees, contractors, vendors, authorities and other
agencies of the town, all citizens of the town, and visitors within the town's
jurisdiction, are subject to the provisions of this chapter and the town's
Emergency Preparedness Manual.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The Town Manager or designee shall perform the function of Director of
Emergency Management and shall declare, implement, manage and report on all
actions authorized and taken under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Director of Emergency Management
shall include the ongoing planning for and coordination of those actions
necessary for the maintenance of a comprehensive town-wide emergency management
plan which shall be memorialized in the town's Emergency Preparedness Manual.
   (C)   The town's administrative offices will contain the emergency
operations center, which shall be utilized as necessary.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.04 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT.
   The Town Manager or designee, when acting as Director of Emergency
Management, shall have the following powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To recommend the declaration of a state of emergency or declare same
pursuant to the organizational structure as set forth in §
94.05 as soon as practical. To inform the Town Council of the reasons for and
the status of the events requiring the declaration.
   (B)   To revise and exercise the town's Emergency Preparedness Manual for
the mitigation of, preparation for, response to and recovery from emergency
conditions.
   (C)   To direct the efforts of emergency services personnel in preparation
for, response to, and recovery from emergency conditions.
   (D)   To recommend a budget to the Town Council for the creation and
maintenance of an emergency response capability as provided herein.
   (E)   To establish emergency regulations necessary for the protection of
life and property, establishment of public order, and control of adverse
conditions affecting public health, safety and welfare resulting from an
emergency, and to incorporate same into the town's Emergency Preparedness
Manual.
   (F)   To develop and manage a town emergency awareness public information
program, and to incorporate same into the town's Emergency Preparedness Manual.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.05 DECLARATION OF A STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Director of Emergency Management, the Mayor and the Town Marshal
acting in concert, or any two of them if one is not available, or any one of
them if neither of the other two are available, shall have the authority to
declare a local state of emergency.
   (B)   Any declaration of a local state of emergency and all emergency
regulations activated under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
confirmed by the Town Council by resolution no later than its next regularly
scheduled meeting, unless the nature of the emergency renders a meeting of the
Town Council impractical.
   (C)   An emergency declaration authorized under this subchapter shall
authorize temporary emergency measures necessary for the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare, which shall, if applicable, be coordinated
with activities of the Palm Beach County Emergency Management Agency, and may
include but is not limited to the following subjects:
      (1)   Evacuations;
      (2)   Curfews and declaration of areas off limits;
      (3)   Suspension or regulation of the sale of, or offer to sell, with or
without consideration: alcoholic beverages, explosives, or combustibles;
      (4)   Suspension of local building regulations;
      (5)   Emergency procurement procedures, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds;
      (6)   Regulating the use of and rationing of fuel, ice and other
essentials;
      (7)   Providing for the health and safety of persons and property; and
      (8)   Any other subject as authorized by F.S. Ch. 252.
   (D)   A local state of emergency, when declared as provided herein, shall
continue in effect for no longer than seven days without being affirmatively
renewed, and may be terminated at any time.
   (E)   Upon the declaration of a state of emergency under this subchapter, a
written notice of such declaration shall be posted on the bulletin board at
Town Hall, and as promptly as practical, the notice shall be filed in the
office of the Town Clerk, and delivered to local news media for publication and
radio and television broadcast.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
CIVIL DISORDER MANAGEMENT
§ 94.31 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL DISORDER OR DISTURBANCE. An act of violence or a flagrant and
substantial defiance of, or resistance to, a lawful exercise of public
authority and that, on account thereof, there is reason to believe that there
exists a clear and present danger of a riot or other general public disorder,
widespread disobedience of the law, and substantial injury to persons or to
property, all of which constitute an imminent threat to public peace or order
and to the general welfare of the town or any part of the town.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.32 DECLARATION OF A CIVIL DISORDER OR DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to F.S. § 870.042(2) the Town Manager or designee is
designated as the town official empowered to declare that a civil disorder or
disturbance exists within the boundaries of the town and to exercise the
emergency powers conferred in F.S. §§ 870.041 through 870.047. In the absence
of the Town Manager or designee, the Mayor shall be the designated town
official to exercise the powers to declare that a civil disorder or disturbance
exists within the boundaries of the town; in the absence of the Mayor, the Town
Marshal shall be the designated town official; or in their absence, the Town
Council President shall be the designated town official to exercise the powers
to declare that a civil disorder or disturbance exists within the boundaries of
the town.
   (B)   Whenever a civil disorder or disturbance is declared as stated above,
the sale of, or offer to sell, with or without consideration, any ammunition or
gun or firearm of any size or description shall be prohibited throughout the
town; and the intentional display by or in any store or shop of ammunition or
gun or firearm of any size or description shall be prohibited throughout the
town; and the intentional possession in a public place of a firearm by any
person other than a duly authorized law enforcement official or person in
military service acting in the official performance of their duty shall be
prohibited throughout the town, in accordance with F.S. § 870.044.
   (C)   Whenever a civil disorder or disturbance is declared as stated above,
measures regarding the imposition of curfews, restricting the sale or
distribution of alcoholic beverages, closing public assemblages, and
prohibiting the sale or distribution of gasoline and other flammables, as
provided in F.S. § 870.45, may be invoked in whole or in part, with limitations
and conditions as may be deemed appropriate.
   (D)   Upon the declaration of civil disorder or disturbance under this
subchapter, a written notice of such declaration shall be posted on the
bulletin board at Town Hall, and as promptly as practical, the notice shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk, and delivered to local news media for
publication and radio and television broadcast.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 94.33 DECLARATION TERM AND TERMINATION.
   A declaration of civil disorder or disturbance made pursuant to this
subchapter shall commence upon the declaration by the public official and shall
terminate after 72 hours, unless terminated sooner by the Town Council. Any
extension of the 72 hour period must be requested by the declaring public
official and approved by the Town Council by resolution in special session
prior to the expiration of the 72 hour period, pursuant to F.S. Ch. 870.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
113.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTER FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Collection of taxes; issuance of licenses
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
110.15   Short title
   
110.16   Hours of sale
   
110.17   Duty to enforce
   
110.18   Uniform application within the incorporated area
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 COLLECTION OF TAXES; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Each vendor of alcoholic beverages within the town shall pay an annual
municipal license tax to the town in an amount equal to 50% of the state and
county license taxes thereon, provided by law.
   (B)   Such license taxes shall be paid and such licenses shall be issued for
the period from October 1 through September 30 of each year, beginning October
1, 1967.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation beginning such business on or after
April 1 of the license year may obtain a new license expiring on October 1 of
the same year upon application therefor, and the payment of one-half the
license tax herein required for the annual license.
   (D)   In no event shall any license tax levied hereunder exceed 50% of the
state and county license tax provided by law as being applicable in the county.
   (E)   All licenses issued under the terms of this section shall be separate
from any other municipal license and the amount of license tax paid for such
license must show on its face.
(Ord. 2-67, passed 9-27-1967) Penalty, see §
110.99
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 110.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited in the future as the “Town of Briny
Breezes Sale of Alcoholic Beverages Ordinance”.
(Ord. 5-75, passed 11-26-1975)
§ 110.16 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, consumed, served or permitted to
be served or consumed in any place holding a license under the Division of
Beverage within the corporate limits of the town, except as follows: 7:00 a.m.
to 3:00 a.m. Monday through Friday; 7:00 a.m. Saturdays to 3:00 a.m. Sundays;
2:00 p.m. Sundays until 3:00 a.m. Mondays.
   (B)   On New Year’s Eve, December 31, except when December 31, falls on a
Sunday, the hours shall be 7:00 a.m. December 31 to 7:00 a.m. of the following
day.
   (C)   When December 31 falls on Sunday, then the hours shall be 2:00 p.m.
December 31 until 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 5-75, passed 11-26-1975) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   It is hereby declared to be the duty of the Town Marshal’s Department, as
well as any other authorized law enforcement agency of the state, to strictly
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 5-75, passed 11-26-1975)
§ 110.18 UNIFORM APPLICATION WITHIN THE INCORPORATED AREA.
   This subchapter shall constitute a uniform law applicable throughout the
incorporated area of the town.
(Ord. 5-75, passed 11-26-1975)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
110.01 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 or a sentence not to
exceed 30 days in jail, and each day of such violation shall be considered to
be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation or agent violating or deemed in
violation of any of the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.18, if not otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine of not more than $500, and/or imprisonment for not more than
60 days. Each day or fraction thereof the violation continues shall be
considered as a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-67, passed 9-27-1967; Ord. 5-75, passed 11-26-1975)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Bingo games
§ 111.01 BINGO GAMES.
   The conducting or playing of bingo games or guest games, in the town, under
the provisions of F.S. § 849.093, is hereby authorized and permitted,
notwithstanding any ordinances of the town to the contrary.
(1977 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 67-2, passed 12-4-1967)
Statutory reference:
   Bingo authorized; conditions for conduct; proceeds, see F.S. § 849.0931
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and application
   
112.02   Fee for telecommunications company occupation of rights-of-way
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish fees for occupation of the
town’s rights-of-way for telecommunications facilities of telecommunications
companies not otherwise paying a fee to the town for occupation of the town’s
rights-of-way. Any telecommunications company paying fees for the occupation of
the town’s rights-of-way for telecommunications facilities as of the effective
date of this chapter shall continue to pay fees to the town as the company has
been paying them.
   (B)   The fees imposed pursuant to this chapter shall apply to all
telecommunications companies occupying the town’s rights-of-way for
telecommunications facilities and not otherwise paying a fee to the town for
occupation of the town’s rights-of-way.
   (C)   The fees imposed pursuant to this chapter are a fee and not a tax as
specified in F.S. § 337.401; consequently: the payments to be made pursuant to
this chapter shall not be deemed to be in the nature of a tax; such payments
shall be in addition to any and all taxes of a general applicability; and the
fee specified herein is consideration for occupation of the town’s rights-of-
way, including all public easements, for the purpose of erecting, constructing
and maintaining telecommunications systems.
(Ord. 4-00, passed 1-25-2001)
§ 112.02 FEE FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY OCCUPATION OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   Any telecommunications company providing local telephone
service, as defined in F.S. § 203.012(3), in the town and that is occupying
municipal streets or rights-of-way within the corporate limits of the town with
poles, wires or other fixtures shall pay to the town a fee in the amount of 1%
of the gross receipts on recurring local service revenues for services provided
within the corporate limits of the town by such telecommunications company.
Included within the fee are all taxes, licenses, fees, in-kind contributions
accepted pursuant to F.S. § 337.401, and other impositions except ad valorem
taxes and amounts for assessments for special benefits, such as sidewalks,
street pavings and similar improvements, and occupational license taxes levied
or imposed by the town upon the telecommunications company.
      (2)   In the event that a telecommunications company which provides
telecommunications services defined as toll services in F.S. § 203.012(7),
occupies the town’s rights-of-way, the telecommunications company shall pay to
the city annually $500 per linear mile, which amount is prorated for any
portion thereof, for any cable, fiber optic or other pathway that makes
physical use of the town’s rights-of-way. Such annual fee shall be prorated to
reflect the expiration date of this chapter and shall be payable annually, in
advance. If a telecommunications company that is required to pay a fee pursuant
to this division (A)(2) increases the amount of its facilities occupying the
town’s rights-of-way after such advance payment has been made, but prior to the
expiration date of this chapter, the fees due for the additional facilities
shall be prorated and paid in full at the time the facilities are installed in
the town’s rights-of-way. The fee or other consideration imposed pursuant to
this division (A)(2) shall not apply in any manner to any telecommunications
company which provides local telephone service as defined in F.S. § 203.012(3),
for any services provided by such telecommunications company.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY, as used in this chapter, shall have the
meaning set forth in F.S. § 364.02(12) (2000).
   (B)   The fees provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be paid by the
telecommunications company to the town in quarterly installment(s). The
installment payment(s) shall be based upon such gross receipts on recurring
local service revenues for the immediately preceding installment period or
portion thereof after the effective date of this chapter, and shall be made
within 30 calendar days following the end of the period. Past due payments or
under-payments shall bear interest accrued from the last day of the quarter for
which the payment was due. Interest shall be paid at the statutory rate of
interest on judgments as established by F.S. § 55.03. Payments shall include a
statement as to how the fee amount was determined and the statement shall be
certified by the telecommunications company’s chief financial officer or other
duly authorized representative of the company.
   (C)   (1)   If the town wishes to verify the payments due to the town under
this section, the telecommunications company shall permit the town or a
designated representative of the town, upon reasonable advance written notice,
and during normal business hours at the location of the telecommunications
company where such records are maintained in the town, at another location
satisfactory to the town, or elsewhere pursuant to division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)
(b) below, to review or audit the telecommunications company’s billing and
payment records kept in the ordinary course of business upon which the payments
were based. If a telecommunications company’s records are not maintained in the
town, the telecommunications company shall either:
         (a)   Pay all reasonable expenses, including travel, following the
provisions of F.S. § 112.061(6), (7) and (8) to the town for the town to have a
review or audit performed; or
         (b)   Provide the town with access to copies of the telecommunications
company’s records in the town or within 55 miles of the town or by an
electronic method satisfactory to the town.
      (2)   However, without the specific written consent of a
telecommunications company’s audit representative, no company records may be
duplicated or taken from the telecommunications company’s premises, and the
town shall maintain the confidentiality of the information disclosed in these
records and use the information solely for the purposes of verifying payments
by the telecommunications company. No acceptance of payment shall be construed
as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the town may have
for sums due and payable under this chapter unless the town agrees in writing.
In the event that the town, pursuant to final audit findings, determines that
there exists a difference between the amount due to the town and the amount
paid to the town, indicating an underpayment to the town, in excess of 5% of
the amount due, such telecommunications company shall pay all reasonable costs,
fees and expenses of the audit.
   (D)   This chapter is adopted consistent with the provisions of F.S. §
337.401, and other applicable provisions of law. This section shall not be
construed as a waiver or limitation of the power of the town to prescribe and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations pursuant to applicable provisions of
law.
   (E)   If required by applicable town ordinances, codes or regulations, a
telecommunications company shall be registered with the town and obtain all
permits that may be required by the town regarding occupation of the town’s
public rights-of-way for telecommunications facilities.
(Ord. 4-00, passed 1-25-2001)
12   Briny Breezes - Business Regulations
CHAPTER 113: MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTER FACILITIES
Section
   
113.01   Medical marijuana treatment center facilities
§ 113.01 MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code to the contrary,
medical marijuana treatment center facilities are prohibited and shall not be
located within the jurisdictional boundaries of the town.
   (B)   The town shall not accept, process, or approve any request or
application for development building permits, or other approvals associated
with a proposed medical marijuana treatment center facility.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the term MEDICAL
MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTER FACILITY means any facility where medical marijuana
or any product derived therefrom is processed or dispensed for retail sale. In
addition, but not in lieu of such definition, the term shall also include such
meanings and definitions as contained in Florida Statutes and Florida
Administrative Code.
   (D)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to prohibit the location and
operation of medical marijuana treatment center facilities within the town to
the maximum extent authorized by F.S. § 381.986(11), or any other subsequent
law or statute.
(Ord. 1-2018, passed 2-22-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL
Section
   
130.01   Adoption of state law misdemeanors
   
130.02   Acceptance of state’s preemption of firearms and ammunition
regulations
   
130.03   Impersonating officer
   
130.04   Resisting officer
   
130.05   Unnecessary noises prohibited
   
130.06   Disturbance of the peace
   
130.07   Accumulation of filth
   
130.08   Spitting on sidewalks and other public places
   
130.09   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks
   
130.10   Balloons and sky lanterns
   
130.11   Fireworks
   
130.12   Solicitation of rides or business
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW MISDEMEANORS.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this title
do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field of
regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to F.S. §
790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as the same
may be amended from time to time, it shall be unlawful to commit, within the
limits of the town, any act which is or shall be recognized by the laws of the
state as a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-
2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
Editor’s note:
   For cases upholding ordinance adopting state misdemeanors by reference, see
Orr v. Quigg, 135 Fla. 653, 185 So. 726; State ex rel. McFarland v. Roberts, 74
So 2d 88. Such adoption includes laws both in existence at the time and those
later adopted by the state legislature, State v. Smith, 189 So 2d 846.
§ 130.02 ACCEPTANCE OF STATE’S PREEMPTION OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby expressly recognizes and accepts the provisions of HB-
45 and F.S. § 790.33, and all future amendments and revisions thereof as the
same may be amended from time to time, that preempt to the state the whole
field of regulation of firearms and ammunition.
      (1)   The town hereby expressly repeals, in their entirety, all of the
town’s municipal ordinances, rules and regulations, and all amendments thereof,
as from time to time the town has heretofore adopted, that regulate or attempt
to regulate firearms or ammunition in any manner whatsoever.
      (2)   The town hereby disavows and disclaims that it has or possesses any
municipal power, right or governmental authority as a municipal corporation of
the state to regulate any part of the whole field of firearms or ammunition in
any manner whatsoever. All such municipal ordinances, rules and regulations,
and all amendments thereof, heretofore adopted by the town are hereby declared
to be repealed, abolished, abrogated, cancelled, annulled, recalled and
rescinded.
   (B)   On all matters arising from, involving, pertaining to or occupying the
whole field of regulation of firearms and ammunition, including the purchase,
sale, transfer, taxation, manufacture, ownership, possession, storage and
transportation thereof, the town is required to, and shall, enforce the state’s
firearms and ammunition laws to the exclusion of all existing and future
federal, county or municipal ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining
thereto.
(1977 Code, § 16-1.1) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 130.03 IMPERSONATING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exercise, or assume to exercise, any
of the powers conferred upon any police officer, or other law enforcement
officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff or detective, or to represent or hold himself
or herself out as such officer.
(1977 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Falsely personating officer, see F.S. § 843.08
§ 130.04 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, obstruct or oppose any police
officer in the discharge of his or her duty, in the town.
(1977 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting officer, see F.S. §§ 843.01 et seq.
§ 130.05 UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
chapter do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33. F.S. and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof,
as the same may be amended from time to time, the creation of any unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town is unlawful and prohibited.
   (B)   Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental
to the life or health of any individual is unlawful and prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 12-4) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-
2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and motor vehicles, see Title VII
§ 130.06 DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
chapter do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as
the same may be amended from time to time, whoever willfully disturbs the peace
of another by violence, tumultuous or offensive demeanor, loud or unusual
noise, profane, obscene or offensive language, or other conduct, calculated to
provoke a breach of the peace, or by assaulting, striking, threatening or
frightening another; or shall permit the same to be done upon premises in his
or her possession, custody or control so that others in the vicinity are
disturbed thereby, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-
2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing the peace by dogs, see §
90.04
§ 130.07 ACCUMULATION OF FILTH.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground
in the town to suffer or permit any stagnant water, filth, refuse, matter,
animal or vegetable, or any putrid or unwholesome substance to accumulate
thereon, or to suffer or permit any stable, pig pen, hen house, dog kennel or
any place where any animals are kept, or any water closet or privy thereon to
become in such a condition as to emit offensive odors and be injurious or
dangerous to the health of the neighborhood.
(1977 Code, § 12-6) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances injurious to health, F.S. Ch. 386
§ 130.08 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon any public sidewalk or
public way or in any public building, within this town.
(1977 Code, § 12-7) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to block off, fence or in anywise
appropriate to his or her own use, or attempt so to do, any street, sidewalk or
alley within the town.
(1977 Code, § 12-8) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and motor vehicles, see Title VII
§ 130.10 BALLOONS AND SKY LANTERNS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATMOSPHERE. The troposphere, stratosphere and other layers of air and gas
that envelop the earth.
      FLOATING BALLOON. A balloon of any type inflated with a gas that is
lighter than air. FLOATING BALLOONS do not use flame for any purpose.
      SKY LANTERN. A device that requires a flame which produces heated air
trapped in a balloon-type covering allowing the device to float in the air. SKY
LANTERNS shall not include hot air balloons used for transporting persons.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to intentionally release any floating
balloon or any sky lantern into the atmosphere within the jurisdictional limits
of the town.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibition contained in this section excludes the
following activities:
      (1)   Release of floating balloons indoors;
      (2)   Release of sky lanterns indoors; or
      (3)   Release of floating balloons, sky lanterns or other devices by a
governmental or scientific agency for meteorological or other bona fide
scientific or governmental purposes.
(Ord. 03-2022, passed 6-23-2022)
§ 130.11 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Manufacturing, storage, sale and use unlawful. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity to store, manufacture,
display, discharge, explode or use any fireworks or pyrotechnic materials
within the town except upon permit granted by the town in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or
combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect bv combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation as defined by F.S. Ch. 791.
      PYROTECHNIC MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to. chemical mixtures
used in the entertainment industry to produce visible, audible or thermal
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation; flame effects and/or similar
devices not limited to batons or torches fueled by liquid, solid or gaseous
fuels; flame projectors which produce heat effects and/or flames; flash powders
composed of fuels and oxidizers; flares and similar devices.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or entity which wishes
to display fireworks or use pyrotechnics within the town may do so only upon
application approved by the town. Applications shall be made at least 30 days
in advance of the date of the display requested on an application form provided
by the town. No firework displays shall be permitted in the recreation
district. Permits shall be issued for firework displays only between the hours
of 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., except on December 31, January 1 and July 4, when
said times may be extended if authorized. Displays of fireworks and the use of
pyrotechnics, in order to be permitted, shall comply with all rules and
regulations promulgated by the town from time to time, including, but not
limited to, NFPA 1123 for fireworks and NFPA 1126 for pyrotechnics. No
fireworks or pyrotechnic displays shall be permitted which are determined to be
unsafe in the sole discretion of the town or the town’s designee.
      (2)   In addition, before any permit for fireworks or pyrotechnics
display shall be issued, the following shall be provided:
         (a)   A $1,000 non-refundable fee is required at time of application
for a permit. Permits shall be non-transferable. (This application fee may be
modified by resolution of the Town Council from time to time.)
         (b)   A performance bond or similar security acceptable to the town
naming the town as beneficiary in the sum of $5,000 to cover any costs incurred
by the town as a result of the display, which costs are not otherwise
reimbursed by applicant. The amount of this bond may be increased at the
discretion of the town or the town’s designee upon a determination that a
greater amount is required as a result of the nature and size of the event.
         (c)   Proof of financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages
to property or personal injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part
of such person or any agent or employee of the applicant in such amount,
character and form as the town or the town’s designee determines to be
necessary for the protection of the public.
         (d)   General liability insurance coverage with limits of liability no
less than $5.000,000 per occurrence. Said insurance policy shall be issued bv a
company authorized to do business under the laws of the state. A copy of the
certificate of insurance endorsing the town as additional insured under the
general liability policy is required.
         (e)   A sufficient amount of money to compensate the town for any and
all personnel deemed necessary bv the town or the town’s designee required to
stand by and oversee the event to ensure public safety.
         (f)   An acknowledgment that the applicant will abide by all rules and
regulations promulgated bv the town or the town’s designee relating to the
display.
         (g)   Applications shall include, but not be limited to the following
information:
            1.   The name, address and telephone number of the organization
sponsoring the display, the supplier of the fireworks, the operator
(pyrotechnician) and all assistants.
            2.   Copy of valid driver’s license or other valid photo
identification for all operators and assistants. Operators to be at least 21
years of age, assistants to be at least 18 years of age.
            3.   Any FAA approvals required to proceed with the event.
            4.   References for the three most recent firework displays of the
operator.
            5.   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held
and the duration of time for such display.
            6.   The exact location for the display, event or production.
            7.   A copy of a location site plan with the dimensions indicating
the exact location planned for the display site and all grounds and facilities
at which the event will be held.
            8.   The size, type and description of displays of fireworks and/or
pyrotechnics. The type and number of fireworks to be displayed, including for
aerial displays the size and number of each type of burst; and the manner and
place of storage of fireworks in the town prior to the display. Only aerial
displays which are ignited electronically will be allowed.
            9.   Signature of the sponsoring organization representative, and
operator (pyrotechnician).
(1977 Code, § 12-10) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-
2011; Ord. 03-2022, passed 6-23-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Discharging firearms in public, see F.S. § 790.15
   Sale of fireworks, see F.S. Ch. 791
§ 130.12 SOLICITATION OF RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   Hitchhiking.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to stand upon any
sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or public highway or grounds within the limits
of the town for the purpose of hitchhiking, “thumbing”, requesting, asking or
soliciting a ride from the operator of any motor vehicle.
      (2)   The provisions hereof shall not be construed to prevent a person
upon a public highway from soliciting, or a driver of a vehicle from giving a
ride where an emergency actually exists, nor to prevent a person from signaling
or requesting transportation from a passenger carrier for the purpose of
becoming a passenger thereon for hire.
   (B)   Soliciting employment or business. No person shall stand in a roadway
for the purpose of soliciting employment or business from the occupant of any
vehicle.
   (C)   Conflicting regulations. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith be and the same hereby are repealed.
   (D)   Uniform application within the incorporated area. This section shall
constitute a uniform law applicable throughout the incorporated area of the
town.
   (E)   Effective date. The provisions of this section shall become effective
ten days following adoption.
(Ord. 7-76, passed 10-21-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(1977 Code, § 12-11) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963; Ord. 06-2022, passed 1-26-
2023)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Petit larceny
   
131.02   Trespassing
   
131.03   Injuring, destroying property
§ 131.01 PETIT LARCENY.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
section do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as
the same may be amended from time to time. Whosoever shall steal any money,
thing of value, goods or chattels of another, of value less than $50, shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-23) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   The term PRIVATE PROPERTY, when used in this section, shall include
any land or buildings which are not owned by or dedicated to the public, within
the town limits, whether enclosed or unenclosed, and the term POSTED is hereby
defined to mean the displaying upon such property of a sign containing the word
or words “posted”, “no trespassing”, “private property” or any other word or
expression of a similar meaning.
   (B)   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
section do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as
the same may be amended from time to time, it shall be unlawful for any person
to enter upon any posted private property of another, or nonposted private
property of another when told to stay off, or to place or store any personal
property thereupon or drive or any automobile or other vehicle thereon without
the consent of the owner, lessee or person having such property in charge.
(1977 Code, § 12-24) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 INJURING, DESTROYING PROPERTY.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
section do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as
the same may be amended from time to time, whoever shall willfully or
negligently destroy, injure, mutilate, disfigure or displace personal property
of another or any public property of any kind, nature or character whatsoever,
belonging to the town, or property used by any officer, agent, employee or
worker of the town in his or her official duty, employment or work, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-25) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly house
   
132.02   Disturbing religious worship
   
132.03   Gambling
   
132.04   Indecent books, pictures and the like
   
132.05   Indecent exposure, improper dress and the like
   
132.06   Prostitution; soliciting
   
132.07   Keeping or leasing houses of ill fame
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
section do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof as the
same may be amended from time to time, whoever shall permit persons of
disorderly character to assemble in any house or trailer or other place under
their possession, custody or control shall be deemed guilty of keeping a
disorderly house and a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-37) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   Provided that the actions of a person charged with a violation of this
section do not include or arise from activity that is part of the entire field
of regulation of firearms and ammunition preempted by the state pursuant to
F.S. § 790.33 and HB 45, and all future amendments and revisions thereof, as
the same may be amended from time to time, whoever shall disturb any
congregation met for religious worship, by any noise, rude or indecent
language, or profane discourse in any place of worship, or so near thereto as
to disturb the order and solemnity of the meeting shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-38) (Ord. 1-2011, passed 10-25-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 GAMBLING.
   Whoever shall play at any game of chance for money or other thing of value;
or set up or keep any gambling devices, implements, apparatus or paraphernalia
by, upon or with which any game of chance for money or other thing of value
shall be played; or whoever shall keep a place for or allow consent or submit
to a place under his or her custody or control, being used for the purpose of
gambling; or whosoever shall lease to another a house, booth, room, shed or
other structure or enclosure in which gambling shall be carried on by or with
the consent or knowledge of the lessor, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. The Town Marshal or other officer making the arrest shall seize
all gambling implements, apparatus, paraphernalia or other evidence to be found
at the place of gambling, and if it be proved that gambling has been carried on
by means of such implements, apparatus, paraphernalia or any of them, the Chief
of Police shall destroy them. In any prosecution under this section, evidence
of the general reputation of a house, room or other place, that such house,
room or other place is a gambling house, gambling room or a place kept for
gambling, shall be sufficient to establish a prima facie case against the
defendant.
(1977 Code, § 12-39) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see F.S. Ch. 849
§ 132.04 INDECENT BOOKS, PICTURES AND THE LIKE.
   Whoever shall sell, exhibit or have in his or her possession any indecent
book, picture or other thing shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-40) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obscene literature, see F.S. Ch. 847
§ 132.05 INDECENT EXPOSURE, IMPROPER DRESS AND THE LIKE.
   Whoever shall be found in a state of nudity, or shall make any indecent
exposure of his or her person, or shall be guilty of any indecent or lewd
behavior shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-41) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Dress required on beaches, see §
91.01
Statutory reference:
   Exposure of sexual organs, see F.S. § 800.03
§ 132.06 PROSTITUTION; SOLICITING.
   Any female guilty of prostitution, or soliciting or attempting to solicit
for the purpose of prostitution, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-42) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see F.S. Ch. 796
§ 132.07 KEEPING OR LEASING HOUSES OF ILL FAME.
   Whoever shall keep or maintain a house of ill fame, or a house or other
place resorted to for the purpose of prostitution; or whoever shall lease to
another a house, room or structure, or a portion thereof, to be used for the
purpose of prostitution, or any other lewd, lascivious or immoral purpose, the
lessor knowing or having reason to believe that the place is to be used for any
of such purposes, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1977 Code, § 12-43) (Ord. 1-63, passed 5-1-1963) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see F.S. §§ 796.01 and 796.06
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
153.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: COASTAL CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   Coastal Zone Protection Act of 1985 adopted by reference
   
150.02   Coastal Building Zone established
§ 150.01 COASTAL ZONE PROTECTION ACT OF 1985 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Coastal Zone Protection Act of 1985 as more fully set forth in F.S. Ch.
161, Part III, §§ 161.52 through 161.58 (2024), as that Part may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 3-86, passed 12-18-1986; Ord. 02-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 150.02 COASTAL BUILDING ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   As more fully defined in F.S. § 161.54 (2024), as that section may be
amended from time to time, there is hereby established a Coastal Building Zone
which is defined as that land area 1,500 feet landward from the coastal
construction control line as established pursuant to F.S. § 161.053 (2024) as
that section may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 3-86, passed 12-18-1986; Ord. 02-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Administration
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Scope
   
151.003   Intent
   
151.004   Coordination with the Florida Building Code
   
151.005   Warning
   
151.006   Disclaimer of liability
Applicability
   
151.020   General
   
151.021   Areas to which this chapter applies
   
151.022   Basis for establishing flood hazard areas
   
151.023   Submission of additional data to establish flood hazard areas
   
151.024   Other laws
   
151.025   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.026   Interpretation
Duties and Powers of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.035   Designation
   
151.036   General
   
151.037   Applications and permits
   
151.038   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations
   
151.039   Modifications of the strict application of the requirements of the
Florida Building Code
   
151.040   Notices and orders
   
151.041   Inspections
   
151.042   Other duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.043   Floodplain management records
Permits
   
151.050   Permits required
   
151.051   Floodplain development permits or approvals
   
151.052   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code
   
151.053   Application for a permit or approval
   
151.054   Validity of permit or approval
   
151.055   Expiration
   
151.056   Suspension or revocation
   
151.057   Other permits required
Site Plans and Construction Documents
   
151.075   Information for development in flood hazard areas
   
151.076   Information in flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
(approximate Zone A)
   
151.077   Additional analyses and certifications
   
151.078   Submission of additional data
Inspections
   
151.085   General
   
151.086   Development other than buildings and structures
   
151.087   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code
   
151.088   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code, lowest floor inspection
   
151.089   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code, final inspection
   
151.090   Manufactured homes
Variances and Appeals
   
151.100   General
   
151.101   Appeals
   
151.102   Limitations on authority to grant variances
   
151.103   Reserved
   
151.104   Historic buildings
   
151.105   Functionally dependent uses
   
151.106   Considerations for issuance of variances
   
151.107   Conditions for issuance of variances
Violations
   
151.115   Violations
   
151.116   Authority
   
151.117   Unlawful continuance
Definitions
   
151.120   General
   
151.121   Definitions
Flood Resistant Development
   
151.130   Buildings and structures
   
151.131   Subdivisions
   
151.132   Site improvements, utilities and limitations
   
151.133   Manufactured homes
   
151.134   Recreational vehicles and park trailers
   
151.135   Tanks
   
151.136   Other development
Cross-reference:
   Coastal construction, see
Chapter 150
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Chapter 152
   Land Development Code, see
Chapter 153
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the Floodplain Management Chapter,
hereinafter
referred to as "this chapter."
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.002 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development that is wholly
within or partially within any flood hazard area, including but not limited to
the subdivision of land; filling, grading, and other site improvements and
utility installations; construction, alteration, remodeling, enlargement,
improvement, replacement, repair, relocation or demolition of buildings,
structures, and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code;
placement, installation, or replacement of manufactured homes and manufactured
buildings; installation or replacement of tanks; placement of recreational
vehicles; installation of swimming pools; and any other development.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.003 INTENT.
   The purposes of this chapter and the flood load and flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code are to establish minimum
requirements to safeguard the public health, safety, and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flooding through regulation of
development in flood hazard areas to:
   (A)   Minimize unnecessary disruption of commerce, access and public service
during times of flooding;
   (B)   Require the use of appropriate construction practices in order to
prevent or minimize future flood damage;
   (C)   Manage filling, grading, dredging, mining, paving, excavation,
drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials, and other development
which may increase flood damage or erosion potential;
   (D)   Manage the alteration of flood hazard areas, watercourses, and
shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial
functions of the floodplain;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public and private facilities and utilities;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas;
   (G)   Minimize the need for future expenditure of public funds for flood
control projects and response to and recovery from flood events; and
   (H)   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program for
community participation as set forth in the Title 44 Code of Federal
Regulations, § 59.22.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.004 COORDINATION WITH THE FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.
   This chapter is intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction with
the Florida Building Code. Where cited, ASCE 24 refers to the edition of the
standard that is referenced by the Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.005 WARNING.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter and the Florida
Building Code, as amended by this community, is considered the minimum
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside of mapped special flood hazard areas, or that uses permitted within
such flood hazard areas, will be free from flooding or flood damage. The flood
hazard areas and base flood elevations contained in the Flood Insurance Study
and shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps and the requirements of Title 44 Code of
Federal Regulations, §§ 59 and 60 may be revised by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, requiring this community to revise these regulations to
remain eligible for participation in the National Flood Insurance Program. No
guaranty of vested use, existing use, or future use is implied or expressed by
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Town Council of
the Town of Briny Breezes or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
APPLICABILITY
§ 151.020 GENERAL.
   Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific
requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.021 AREAS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all flood hazard areas within the town, as
established in §
151.022.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.022 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The Flood Insurance Study for Palm Beach County, Florida and Incorporated
Areas dated December 20, 2024 and all subsequent amendments and revisions, and
the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), and all subsequent
amendments and revisions to such maps, are adopted by reference as a part of
this chapter and shall serve as the minimum basis for establishing flood hazard
areas. Studies and maps that establish flood hazard areas are on file at the
Briny Breezes Town Hall, 4802 North Ocean Boulevard, Briny Breezes, FL 33435.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 1-2017, passed 8-24-2017; Ord. 03-2024,
passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.023 SUBMISSION OF ADDITIONAL DATA TO ESTABLISH FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   To establish flood hazard areas and base flood elevations, pursuant to §§
151.075 through
151.078, the Floodplain Administrator may require submission of additional
data. Where field surveyed topography prepared by a Florida licensed
professional surveyor or digital topography accepted by the community indicates
that ground elevations:
   (A)   Are below the closest applicable base flood elevation, even in areas
not delineated as a special flood hazard area on a FIRM, the area shall be
considered as flood hazard area and subject to the requirements of this chapter
and, as applicable, the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
   (B)   Are above the closest applicable base flood elevation, the area shall
be regulated as special flood hazard area unless the applicant obtains a Letter
of Map Change that removes the area from the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.024 OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions
of local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.025 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance in effect for management of
development in flood hazard areas. However, it is not intended to repeal or
abrogate any existing ordinances including but not limited to land development
regulations, zoning ordinances, stormwater management regulations, or the
Florida Building Code. In the event of a conflict between this chapter and any
other ordinance, the more restrictive shall govern. This chapter shall not
impair any deed restriction, covenant or easement, but any land that is subject
to such interests shall also be governed by this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.026 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 151.035 DESIGNATION.
   The Building Official is designated as the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator may delegate performance of certain duties to other
employees. In the temporary or permanent absence or unavailability of the
Building Official or Floodplain Administrator for any reason, the Town Council
may temporarily designate a person or entity to fulfill the duties of the
Building Official and/or Floodplain Administrator by resolution.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.036 GENERAL.
   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator shall have
the authority to render interpretations of this chapter consistent with the
intent and purpose of this chapter and may establish policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
policies, and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements
specifically provided in this chapter without the granting of a variance
pursuant to §§
151.100 through
151.102 and
151.104 through
151.107.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.037 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   The Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with other pertinent offices
of the community, shall:
   (A)   Review applications and plans to determine whether proposed new
development will be located in flood hazard areas;
   (B)   Review applications for modification of any existing development in
flood hazard areas for compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries where such interpretation is
necessary to determine the exact location of boundaries; a person contesting
the determination shall have the opportunity to appeal the interpretation;
   (D)   Provide available flood elevation and flood hazard information;
   (E)   Determine whether additional flood hazard data shall be obtained from
other sources or shall be developed by an applicant;
   (F)   Review applications to determine whether proposed development will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (G)   Issue floodplain development permits or approvals for development
other than buildings and structures that are subject to the Florida Building
Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code, when compliance with this chapter is demonstrated, or disapprove
the same in the event of noncompliance; and
   (H)   Coordinate with and provide comments to the Building Official to
assure that applications, plan reviews, and inspections for buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas comply with the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.038 SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
   (A)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
   (B)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
   (C)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
   (D)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.039 MODIFICATIONS OF THE STRICT APPLICATION OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall review requests submitted to the Building
Official that seek approval to modify the strict application of the flood load
and flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code to
determine whether such requests require the granting of a variance pursuant to
§§
151.100 through
151.102 and
151.104 through
151.107.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.040 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with appropriate local
agencies for the issuance of all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.041 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make the required inspections as
specified in §§
151.085 through
151.090 for development that is not subject to the Florida Building Code,
including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect flood hazard areas to
determine if development is undertaken without issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.042 OTHER DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall have other duties, including but not
limited to:
   (A)   Establish, in coordination with the Building Official, procedures for
administering and documenting determinations of substantial improvement and
substantial damage made pursuant to §
151.038;
   (B)   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data and
information necessary to maintain the Flood Insurance Rate Maps if the analyses
propose to change base flood elevations, or flood hazard area boundaries; such
submissions shall be made within six months of such data becoming available;
   (C)   Review required design certifications and documentation of elevations
specified by this chapter and the Florida Building Code to determine that such
certifications and documentations are complete;
   (D)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of the town are modified; and
   (E)   Advise applicants for new buildings and structures, including
substantial improvements, that are located in any unit of the Coastal Barrier
Resources System established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-
348) and the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-591) that
federal flood insurance is not available on such construction; areas subject to
this limitation are identified on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as "Coastal Barrier
Resource System Areas" and "Otherwise Protected Areas."
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.043 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT RECORDS.
   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention of public
records, the Floodplain Administrator shall maintain and permanently keep and
make available for public inspection all records that are necessary for the
administration of this chapter and the flood resistant construction
requirements of the Florida Building Code, including Flood Insurance Rate Maps;
Letters of Map Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits;
determinations of whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or
repair of substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation
of elevations specified by the Florida Building Code and this chapter;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter and the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida
Building Code. These records shall be available for public inspection at Briny
Breezes Town Hall, 4802 North Ocean Boulevard, Briny Breezes, FL 33435, during
posted business hours.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
PERMITS
§ 151.050 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Any owner or owner's authorized agent (hereinafter "applicant") who intends
to undertake any development activity within the scope of this chapter,
including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code, which is wholly within or partially within any flood hazard area shall
first make application to the Floodplain Administrator, and the Building
Official if applicable, and shall obtain the required permit(s) and approval
(s). No such permit or approval shall be issued until compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and all other applicable codes and regulations
have been satisfied.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.051 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS OR APPROVALS.
   Floodplain development permits or approvals shall be issued pursuant to this
chapter for any development activities not subject to the requirements of the
Florida Building Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt
from the Florida Building Code. Depending on the nature and extent of proposed
development that includes a building or structure, the Floodplain Administrator
may determine that a floodplain development permit or approval is required in
addition to a building permit.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.052 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA BUILDING
CODE.
   Pursuant to the requirements of federal regulation for participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. §§ 59 and 60), floodplain
development permits or approvals shall be required for the following buildings,
structures and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code and
any further exemptions provided by law, which are subject to the requirements
of this chapter:
   (A)   Railroads and ancillary facilities associated with the railroad.
   (B)   Nonresidential farm buildings on farms, as provided in F.S. § 604.50.
   (C)   Temporary buildings or sheds used exclusively for construction
purposes.
   (D)   Mobile or modular structures used as temporary offices.
   (E)   Those structures or facilities of electric utilities, as defined in
F.S. § 366.02, which are directly involved in the generation, transmission, or
distribution of electricity.
   (F)   Chickees constructed by the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida or
the Seminole Tribe of Florida. As used in this section, the term CHICKEE means
an open-sided wooden hut that has a thatched roof of palm or palmetto or other
traditional materials, and that does not incorporate any electrical, plumbing,
or other non-wood features.
   (G)   Family mausoleums not exceeding 250 square feet in area which are
prefabricated and assembled on site or preassembled and delivered on site and
have walls, roofs, and a floor constructed of granite, marble, or reinforced
concrete.
   (H)   Temporary housing provided by the Department of Corrections to any
prisoner in the state correctional system.
   (I)   Structures identified in F.S. § 553.73(10)(k), are not exempt from the
Florida Building Code if such structures are located in flood hazard areas
established on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.053 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT OR APPROVAL.
   To obtain a floodplain development permit or approval the applicant shall
first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the community. The
information provided shall:
   (A)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the permit or
approval.
   (B)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be conducted
by legal description, street address or similar description that will readily
identify and definitively locate the site.
   (C)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
   (D)   Be accompanied by a site plan or construction documents as specified
in §§
151.075 through
151.078.
   (E)   State the valuation of the proposed work.
   (F)   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent.
   (G)   Give such other data and information as required by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.054 VALIDITY OF PERMIT OR APPROVAL.
   The issuance of a floodplain development permit or approval pursuant to this
chapter shall not be construed to be a permit for, or approval of, any
violation of this chapter, the Florida Building Codes, or any other ordinance
of this community. The issuance of permits based on submitted applications,
construction documents, and information shall not prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from requiring the correction of errors and omissions.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.055 EXPIRATION.
   A floodplain development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance,
or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days
after the work commences. Extensions for periods of not more than 180 days each
shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be demonstrated.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.056 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to suspend or revoke a floodplain
development permit or approval if the permit was issued in error, on the basis
of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance, regulation or requirement of this community.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.057 OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Floodplain development permits and building permits shall include a
condition that all other applicable state or federal permits be obtained before
commencement of the permitted development, including but not limited to the
following:
   (A)   The South Florida Water Management District; F.S. § 373.036.
   (B)   Florida Department of Health for onsite sewage treatment and disposal
systems; F.S. § 381.0065, and F.A.C. Chapter 64E-6.
   (C)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for construction,
reconstruction, changes, or physical activities for shore protection or other
activities seaward of the coastal construction control line; F.S. § 161.141.
   (D)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities subject
to the Joint Coastal Permit; F.S. § 161.055.
   (E)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities that
affect wetlands and alter surface water flows, in conjunction with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers; Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
   (F)   Federal permits and approvals.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS
§ 151.075 INFORMATION FOR DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The site plan or construction documents for any development subject to
the requirements of this chapter shall be drawn to scale and shall include, as
applicable to the proposed development:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas and flood zone(s), base flood
elevation(s), and ground elevations if necessary for review of the proposed
development.
      (2)   Where base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the
Flood Insurance Study, they shall be established in accordance with §
151.076(B) or (C).
      (3)   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take place
will have more than 50 lots or is larger than five acres and the base flood
elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, such
elevations shall be established in accordance with §
151.076(A).
      (4)   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures; in coastal high hazard areas,
new buildings shall be located landward of the reach of mean high tide.
      (5)   Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any filling,
grading, or excavation.
      (6)   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; and evidence that the proposed fill areas
are the minimum necessary to achieve the intended purpose.
      (7)   Delineation of the Coastal Construction Control Line or notation
that the site is seaward of the coastal construction control line, if
applicable.
      (8)   Extent of any proposed alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands,
provided such alteration is approved by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the submission of
site plans, construction documents, and other data that are required by this
chapter but that are not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional if it is found that the nature of the proposed development is such
that the review of such submissions is not necessary to ascertain compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.076 INFORMATION IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS
(APPROXIMATE ZONE A).
   Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the FIRM and base flood elevation
data have not been provided, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
   (A)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data prepared in
accordance with currently accepted engineering practices.
   (B)   Obtain, review, and provide to applicants base flood elevation data
available from a federal or state agency or other source or require the
applicant to obtain and use base flood elevation data available from a federal
or state agency or other source.
   (C)   Where base flood elevation and floodway data are not available from
another source, where the available data are deemed by the Floodplain
Administrator to not reasonably reflect flooding conditions, or where the
available data are known to be scientifically or technically incorrect or
otherwise inadequate:
      (1)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data prepared
in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices; or
      (2)   Specify that the base flood elevation is two feet above the highest
adjacent grade at the location of the development, provided there is no
evidence indicating flood depths have been or may be greater than two feet.
   (D)   Where the base flood elevation data are to be used to support a Letter
of Map Change from FEMA, advise the applicant that the analyses shall be
prepared by a Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA, and that
it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the submittal
requirements and pay the processing fees.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.077 ADDITIONAL ANALYSES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   For activities that propose to alter sand dunes or mangrove stands in
coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), the applicant shall have an engineering
analysis that demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the
potential for flood damage signed and sealed by a Florida-licensed engineer for
submission with the site plan and construction documents.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.078 SUBMISSION OF ADDITIONAL DATA.
   When additional hydrologic, hydraulic or other engineering data, studies,
and additional analyses are submitted to support an application, the applicant
has the right to seek a Letter of Map Change from FEMA to change the base flood
elevations, or change boundaries of flood hazard areas shown on FIRMs, and to
submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The analyses shall be prepared by a
Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA. Submittal requirements
and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
INSPECTIONS
§ 151.085 GENERAL.
   Development for which a floodplain development permit or approval is
required shall be subject to inspection.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.086 DEVELOPMENT OTHER THAN BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect all development to determine
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the conditions of issued
floodplain development permits or approvals.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.087 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA BUILDING
CODE.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect buildings, structures and
facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code to determine compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and the conditions of issued floodplain
development permits or approvals.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.088 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA BUILDING
CODE, LOWEST FLOOR INSPECTION.
   Upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further
vertical construction, the owner of a building, structure or facility exempt
from the Florida Building Code, or the owner's authorized agent, shall submit
to the Floodplain Administrator:
   (A)   If a design flood elevation was used to determine the required
elevation of the lowest floor, the certification of elevation of the lowest
floor prepared and sealed by a Florida licensed professional surveyor; or
   (B)   If the elevation used to determine the required elevation of the
lowest floor was determined in accordance with §
151.076(C)(2), the documentation of height of the lowest floor above highest
adjacent grade, prepared by the owner or the owner's authorized agent.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.089 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA BUILDING
CODE, FINAL INSPECTION.
   As part of the final inspection, the owner or owner's authorized agent shall
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a final certification of elevation of
the lowest floor or final documentation of the height of the lowest floor above
the highest adjacent grade; such certifications and documentations shall be
prepared as specified in §
151.088.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.090 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect manufactured homes that are
installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and the conditions of the issued permit. Upon
placement of a manufactured home, certification of the elevation of the lowest
floor shall be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
§ 151.100 GENERAL.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide on requests for appeals and
requests for variances from the strict application of this chapter. Pursuant to
F.S. § 553.73(5), the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide on requests for
appeals and requests for variances from the strict application of the flood
resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code. This section
does not apply to § 3109 of the Florida Building Code, Building.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.101 APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
Any person aggrieved by the decision may appeal such decision to the circuit
court, as provided by Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.102 LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall base its decisions on variances on technical
justifications submitted by applicants, the considerations for issuance in §
151.106, the conditions of issuance set forth in §
151.107, and the comments and recommendations of the Floodplain Administrator
and the Building Official. The Board of Adjustment has the right to attach such
conditions as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.103 RESERVED.
§ 151.104 HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A variance is authorized to be issued for the repair, improvement, or
rehabilitation of a historic building that is determined eligible for the
exception to the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida
Building Code, Existing Building, Chapter 12 Historic Buildings, upon a
determination that the proposed repair, improvement, or rehabilitation will not
preclude the building's continued designation as a historic building and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the building.
   (B)   If the proposed work precludes the building's continued designation as
a historic building, a variance shall not be granted and the building and any
repair, improvement, and rehabilitation shall be subject to the requirements of
the Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.105 FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or substantial
improvement necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, as
defined in this chapter, provided the variance meets the requirements of this
chapter, is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, and all due
consideration has been given to use of methods and materials that minimize
flood damage during occurrence of the base flood.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.106 CONSIDERATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF VARIANCES.
   In reviewing requests for variances, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all other applicable
provisions of the Florida Building Code, this chapter, and the following:
   (A)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents, to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development to
the community;
   (E)   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed development
that are subject to lower risk of flooding or erosion;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and bridges.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.107 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF VARIANCES.
   Variances shall be issued only upon:
   (A)   Submission by the applicant of a showing of good and sufficient cause
that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography of
the site limit compliance with any provision of this chapter or the required
elevation standards;
   (B)   Determination by the Board of Adjustment that:
      (1)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
due to the physical characteristics of the land that render the lot
undevelopable; increased costs to satisfy the requirements or inconvenience do
not constitute hardship;
      (2)   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nor
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing local laws and ordinances; and
      (3)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Receipt of a signed statement by the applicant that the variance, if
granted, shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Court in such a
manner that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
   (D)   If the request is for a variance to allow construction of the lowest
floor of a new building, or substantial improvement of a building, below the
required elevation, a copy in the record of a written notice from the
Floodplain Administrator to the applicant for the variance, specifying the
difference between the base flood elevation and the proposed elevation of the
lowest floor, stating that the cost of federal flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation
(up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage), and stating that
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
VIOLATIONS
§ 151.115 VIOLATIONS.
   Any development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code
but that is regulated by this chapter that is performed without an issued
permit, that is in conflict with an issued permit, or that does not fully
comply with this chapter, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. A
building or structure without the documentation of elevation of the lowest
floor, other required design certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required by this chapter or the Florida Building Code is presumed to be a
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.116 AUTHORITY.
   For development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code
but that is regulated by this chapter and that is determined to be a violation,
the Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve notices of violation or
stop work orders to owners of the property involved, to the owner's agent, or
to the person or persons performing the work.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.117 UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
notice of violation or a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove or remedy a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be subject to penalties as prescribed by law or town ordinance.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.120 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and
terms shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings shown in §
151.121.
   (B)   Terms defined in the Florida Building Code. Where terms are not
defined in this chapter and are defined in the Florida Building Code, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in that code.
   (C)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined in this chapter or the
Florida Building Code, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such
as the context implies.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   ASCE 24. A standard titled Flood Resistant Design and Construction that is
referenced by the Florida Building Code. ASCE 24 is developed and published by
the American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.] The base flood is commonly
referred to as the "100-year flood" or the "1%-annual chance flood."
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood, including wave
height, relative to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), North American
Vertical Datum (NAVO) or other datum specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM). [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE. The line established by the State of
Florida pursuant to F.S. § 161.053, and recorded in the official records of the
community, which defines that portion of the beach-dune system subject to
severe fluctuations based on a 100-year storm surge, storm waves or other
predictable weather conditions.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. Coastal high hazard areas are also referred to as HIGH HAZARD AREAS
SUBJECT TO HIGH VELOCITY WAVE ACTION or V ZONES and are designated on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) as Zone V1-V30, VE, or V.
   DESIGN FLOOD. The flood associated with the greater of the following two
areas: [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
      (1)   Area with a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any year; or
      (2)   Area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
   DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the DESIGN FLOOD, including wave
height, relative to the datum specified on the community's legally designated
flood hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO, the design flood elevation
shall be the elevation of the highest existing grade of the building's
perimeter plus the depth number (in feet) specified on the flood hazard map. In
areas designated as Zone AO where the depth number is not specified on the map,
the depth number shall be taken as being equal to two feet. [Also defined in
FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks, temporary
structures, temporary or permanent storage of equipment or materials, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations or any
other land disturbing activities.
   ENCROACHMENT. The placement of fill, excavation, buildings, permanent
structures or other development into a flood hazard area which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
   EXISTING BUILDING and EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any buildings and structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before May 15, 1978. [Also defined
in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before May 15, 1978.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency that, in
addition to carrying out other functions, administers the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land from: [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD DAMAGE-RESISTANT MATERIALS. Any construction material capable of
withstanding direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining
any damage that requires more than cosmetic repair. [Also defined in FBC, B, §
1612.2.]
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The greater of the following two areas: [Also defined in
FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
      (1)   The area within a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any year.
      (2)   The area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of the community on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. [Also
defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that contains the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (if applicable), the water surface elevations
of the base flood, and supporting technical data. [Also defined in FBC, B, §
1612.2.]
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The office or position designated and charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter (may be referred to as the
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER).
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT OR APPROVAL. An official document or
certificate issued by the community, or other evidence of approval or
concurrence, which authorizes performance of specific development activities
that are located in flood hazard areas and that are determined to be compliant
with this chapter.
   FLORIDA BUILDING CODE. The family of codes adopted by the Florida Building
Commission, including: Florida Building Code, Building; Florida Building Code,
Residential; Florida Building Code, Existing Building; Florida Building Code,
Mechanical; Florida Building Code, Plumbing; Florida Building Code, Fuel Gas.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, including only
docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities;
the term does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls or foundation of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is determined eligible for the
exception to the flood hazard area requirements of the Florida Building Code,
Existing Building, Chapter 12 Historic Buildings.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special
flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map
and establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure
is not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the base flood
elevation and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard
area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been
permitted and placed in accordance with the community's floodplain management
regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study; upon submission
and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may
be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
   LIGHT-DUTY TRUCK. As defined in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2, any motor vehicle rated
at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular
curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle frontal area
of 45 square feet or less, which is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area of a building or
structure, including basement, but excluding any unfinished or flood-resistant
enclosure, other than a basement, usable solely for vehicle parking, building
access or limited storage provided that such enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the non-elevation requirements of the
Florida Building Code or ASCE 24. [Also defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is eight feet or more in width and greater than 400 square feet, and which is
built on a permanent, integral chassis and is designed for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL TRAILER or PARK TRAILER.
[Also defined in 15C-1.0101, F.A.C.]
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. As used in this chapter, the term refers to the market value
of buildings and structures, excluding the land and other improvements on the
parcel. MARKET VALUE is the actual cash value (in-kind replacement cost
depreciated for age, wear and tear, neglect, and quality of construction)
determined by a qualified independent appraiser, or tax assessment value
adjusted to approximate market value by a factor provided by the county
property appraiser.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of administration of this chapter and the
flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after May 15,
1978 and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after May 15, 1978.
   PARK TRAILER. A transportable unit which has a body width not exceeding 14
feet and which is built on a single chassis and is designed to provide seasonal
or temporary living quarters when connected to utilities necessary for
operation of installed fixtures and appliances. [Defined in F.S. § 320.01.]
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle, including a park trailer, which is: [See
F.S. § 320.01.]
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area in the floodplain subject to a 1 % or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are
shown on FIRMs as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, V1-V30, VE or V. [Also
defined in FBC, B § 1612.2.]
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. 
      (1)   The date of issuance of permits for new construction and
substantial improvements, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement is
within 180 days of the date of the issuance. The actual start of construction
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a building
(including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns.
      (2)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation (such as
clearing, grading, or filling), the installation of streets or walkways,
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, the erection of
temporary forms or the installation of accessory buildings such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main buildings. For a
substantial improvement, the actual "start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
[Also defined in FBC, B § 1612.2.]
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a building or
structure whereby the cost of restoring the building or structure to its
before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
building or structure before the damage occurred. [Also defined in FBC, B §
1612.2.]
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a building or structure, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building or structure before
the improvement or repair is started. If the structure has incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, any repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either: [Also
defined in FBC, B, § 1612.2.]
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
[See Instructions and Notes]
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, or the
flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code, which
permits construction in a manner that would not otherwise be permitted by this
chapter or the Florida Building Code.(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-
2024, passed 12-12-2024)
FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT
§ 151.130 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Design and construction of buildings, structures and facilities exempt
from the Florida Building Code. Pursuant to §
151.052, buildings, structures, and facilities that are exempt from the Florida
Building Code, including substantial improvement or repair of substantial
damage of such buildings, structures and facilities, shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the flood load and flood resistant construction
requirements of ASCE 24. Structures exempt from the Florida Building Code that
are not walled and roofed buildings shall comply with the requirements of §
151.136.
   (B)   Buildings and structures seaward of the coastal construction control
line. If extending, in whole or in part, seaward of the coastal construction
control line and also located, in whole or in part, in a flood hazard area:
      (1)   Buildings and structures shall be designed and constructed to
comply with the more restrictive applicable requirements of the Florida
Building Code, Building § 3109 and § 1612 or Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.
      (2)   Minor structures and non-habitable major structures as defined in
F.S. § 161.54, shall be designed and constructed to comply with the intent and
applicable provisions of this chapter and ASCE 24.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.131 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Subdivision proposals, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall be reviewed to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (B)   Subdivision plats. Where any portion of proposed subdivisions,
including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, lies within a flood hazard
area, the following shall be required:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, flood zones, and design flood
elevations, as appropriate, shall be shown on preliminary plats;
      (2)   Where the subdivision has more than 50 lots or is larger than five
acres and base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM, the base flood
elevations determined in accordance with §
151.076(A); and
      (3)   Compliance with the site improvement and utilities requirements of
§
151.132.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.132 SITE IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. All proposed new development shall be reviewed
to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (B)   Sanitary sewage facilities. All new and replacement sanitary sewage
facilities, private sewage treatment plants (including all pumping stations and
collector systems), and on-site waste disposal systems shall be designed in
accordance with the standards for onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems
in Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C. and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the facilities and discharge from the
facilities into flood waters, and impairment of the facilities and systems.
   (C)   Water supply facilities. All new and replacement water supply
facilities shall be designed in accordance with the water well construction
standards in Chapter 62-532.500, F.A.C. and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (D)   Reserved.
   (E)   Limitations on placement of fill. Subject to the limitations of this
chapter, fill shall be designed to be stable under conditions of flooding
including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwaters, prolonged inundation,
and protection against flood-related erosion and scour. In addition to these
requirements, if intended to support buildings and structures (Zone A only),
fill shall comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
   (F)   Limitations on sites in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V). In coastal
high hazard areas, alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands shall be
permitted only if such alteration is approved by the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection and only if the engineering analysis required by §
151.077 demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the
potential for flood damage. Construction or restoration of dunes under or
around elevated buildings and structures shall comply with §
151.136(E)(3).
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.133 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   General. All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas shall
be installed by an installer that is licensed pursuant to F.S. § 320.8249, and
shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 15C-1, F.A.C. and the
requirements of this chapter. If located seaward of the coastal construction
control line, all manufactured homes shall comply with the more restrictive of
the applicable requirements.
   (B)   Foundations. All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured
homes installed in flood hazard areas shall be installed on permanent,
reinforced foundations that:
      (1)   In flood hazard areas (Zone A) other than coastal high hazard
areas, are designed in accordance with the foundation requirements of the
Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 and this chapter. Foundations
for manufactured homes subject to division (F) are permitted to be reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength.
      (2)   In coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), are designed in accordance
with the foundation requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.3 and this chapter.
   (C)   Anchoring. All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured
homes shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
damage and shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This anchoring requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for wind resistance.
   (D)   Elevation. Manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or
substantially improved shall comply with divisions (E) or (F) of this section,
as applicable.
   (E)   General elevation requirement. Unless subject to the requirements of
division (F) of this section, all manufactured homes that are placed, replaced,
or substantially improved on sites located: (a) outside of a manufactured home
park or subdivision; (b) in a new manufactured home park or subdivision; (c) in
an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or (d) in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home
has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood, shall be elevated
such that the bottom of the frame is at or above the elevation required, as
applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.2 (Zone A) or Section R322.3 (Zone V).
   (F)   Elevation requirement for certain existing manufactured home parks and
subdivisions. Manufactured homes that are not subject to division (E) of this
section, including manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or
substantially improved on sites located in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, unless on a site where substantial damage as result of flooding
has occurred, shall be elevated such that either the:
      (1)   Bottom of the frame of the manufactured home is at or above the
elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida
Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A) or Section R322.3 (Zone V);
or
      (2)   Bottom of the frame is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are not less than 36
inches in height above grade.
   (G)   Enclosures. Enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes shall
comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential Section
R322.2 or R322.3 for such enclosed areas, as applicable to the flood hazard
area.
   (H)   Utility equipment. Utility equipment that serves manufactured homes,
including electric, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities, shall comply with the requirements of
the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322, as applicable to the flood
hazard area.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.134 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND PARK TRAILERS.
   (A)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles and park trailers placed
temporarily in flood hazard areas shall:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which means the
recreational vehicle or park model is on wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanent attachments such as additions, rooms, stairs, decks and
porches.
   (B)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles and park trailers that do
not meet the limitations in division (A) of this section for temporary
placement shall meet the requirements of §
151.133 for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.135 TANKS.
   (A)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty.
   (B)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not meet
the elevation requirements of division (C) of this section shall:
      (1)   Be permitted in flood hazard areas (Zone A) other than coastal high
hazard areas, provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
flood-borne debris.
      (2)   Not be permitted in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
   (C)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas
shall be attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a
supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting structures
shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area.
   (D)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents
shall be:
      (1)   At or above the design flood elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
      (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
§ 151.136 OTHER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   General requirements for other development. All development, including
manmade changes to improved or unimproved real estate for which specific
provisions are not specified in this chapter or the Florida Building Code,
shall:
      (1)   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood;
      (3)   Be constructed of flood damage-resistant materials; and
      (4)   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the design
flood elevation or meet the requirements of ASCE 24, except that minimum
electric service required to address life safety and electric code requirements
is permitted below the design flood elevation provided it conforms to the
provisions of the electrical part of building code for wet locations.
   (B)   Concrete slabs used as parking pads, enclosure floors, landings,
decks, walkways, patios and similar nonstructural uses in coastal high hazard
areas (Zone V). In coastal high hazard areas, concrete slabs used as parking
pads, enclosure floors, landings, decks, walkways, patios and similar
nonstructural uses are permitted beneath or adjacent to buildings and
structures provided the concrete slabs are designed and constructed to be:
      (1)   Structurally independent of the foundation system of the building
or structure;
      (2)   Frangible and not reinforced, so as to minimize debris during
flooding that is capable of causing significant damage to any structure; and
      (3)   Have a maximum slab thickness of not more than four inches.
   (C)   Decks and patios in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V). In addition to
the requirements of the Florida Building Code, in coastal high hazard areas
decks and patios shall be located, designed, and constructed in compliance with
the following:
      (1)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure
shall have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above
the design flood elevation and any supporting members that extend below the
design flood elevation shall comply with the foundation requirements that apply
to the building or structure, which shall be designed to accommodate any
increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
      (2)   A deck or patio that is located below the design flood elevation
shall be structurally independent from buildings or structures and their
foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed either to remain
intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart into small
pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing structural
damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (3)   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of more than 12
inches or that is constructed with more than the minimum amount of fill
necessary for site drainage shall not be approved unless an analysis prepared
by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful diversion
of floodwaters or wave run up and wave reflection that would increase damage to
the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (4)   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of 12 inches or less
and that is at natural grade or on nonstructural fill material that is similar
to and compatible with local soils and is the minimum amount necessary for site
drainage may be approved without requiring analysis of the impact on diversion
of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection.
   (D)   Other development in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V). In coastal
high hazard areas, development activities other than buildings and structures
shall be permitted only if also authorized by the appropriate federal, state or
local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and not structurally
attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses prepared by qualified
registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful diversion of floodwaters
or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase damage to adjacent
buildings and structures. Such other development activities include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters; and
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment and disposal systems defined in 64E-6.002,
F.A.C., as filled systems or mound systems.
   (E)   Nonstructural fill in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V). In coastal
high hazard areas:
      (1)   Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of
nonstructural fill shall be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes
under and around buildings.
      (2)   Nonstructural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than one
unit vertical to five units horizontal shall be permitted only if an analysis
prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (3)   Where authorized by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection or applicable local approval, sand dune construction and restoration
of sand dunes under or around elevated buildings are permitted without
additional engineering analysis or certification of the diversion of floodwater
or wave runup and wave reflection if the scale and location of the dune work is
consistent with local beach-dune morphology and the vertical clearance is
maintained between the top of the sand dune and the lowest horizontal
structural member of the building.
(Ord. 4-2015, passed 9-24-2015; Ord. 03-2024, passed 12-12-2024)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Adoption
§ 152.01 ADOPTION.
   The Comprehensive Plan of the town is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 3-2013, passed 12-19-2013)
CHAPTER 153: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title; authority
   
153.002   Applicability
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Purpose and intent
   
153.005   Methodology
   
153.006   Objectives for code adoption
   
153.007   Requirements of the code
   
153.008   Non-abrogation
   
153.009   Violations
Zoning and Land Use
   
153.020   General purpose
   
153.021   Definitions (zoning)
   
153.022   Designation of district boundaries
   
153.023   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.024   Existing uses
   
153.025   Application of regulations
   
153.026   Official zoning map
   
153.027   Zoning use districts
   
153.028   Origin and status of residential districts
   
153.0285   Elevated Single Family Home Overlay District
   
153.029   Commercial District (C-1)
   
153.030   Public and Semi-Public District (PSP-1)
   
153.031   Recreation District (R-1)
   
153.032   Parking and Landscape District (PL-1)
Subdivision of Land
   
153.045   General provisions
   
153.046   Applicability
   
153.047   Definitions (subdivisions)
   
153.048   Requirements for platting
   
153.049   Procedures for submission
   
153.050   Additional requirements for drainage
Consistency and Concurrency
   
153.065   General provisions
   
153.066   Determination of consistency
   
153.067   System for the management of concurrency
   
153.068   Determination of available capacity
   
153.069   Annual SYMCON report
   
153.070   Adopted levels of service
Resource Protection Standards
   
153.085   General provisions
   
153.086   Definitions
   
153.087   General protection standards
   
153.088   Tree and vegetation removal
   
153.089   Preservation of natural vegetative cover on beach dunes
   
153.090   Preservation of mangrove areas
   
153.091   Environmentally sensitive lands
   
153.092   Wellfield protection ordinance adopted
   
153.093   Water conservation
   
153.094   Appeals
Development Design and Improvement Standards
   
153.105   New design standards
   
153.106   Present status of design standards
Building Codes
   
153.120   General provisions
   
153.121   Definitions (buildings and mobile homes)
   
153.122   Temporary housing units
   
153.123   Building Official; Mobile Home Inspector
   
153.124   Permits
   
153.125   Standards
   
153.126   Wind safety standards
   
153.127   Hours of work
Signs; Regulations
   
153.140   Intent, scope and purpose
   
153.141   Definitions for signs
   
153.142   Application procedure
   
153.143   Contents of sign permit application for permanent signs
   
153.144   Compliance with Building Code; sign maintenance
   
153.145   Prohibited signs
   
153.146   Permanent signs
   
153.147   Temporary signs
   
153.148   Appeals
Operational Performance Standards
   
153.160   General provisions
   
153.161   Noise
   
153.162   Vibration
   
153.163   Air pollution
   
153.164   Odor
   
153.165   Fire and explosive hazard
   
153.166   Glare or heat
   
153.167   Discharge of toxic or noxious matter or waste
   
153.168   Electromagnetic interference
   
153.169   Traffic performance standards
   
153.170   Violation
   
153.171   Appeals
Application Procedures and Hardship Relief
   
153.185   Authority
   
153.186   Requirements of this chapter
   
153.187   Non-abrogation
   
153.188   Definitions (application procedure)
   
153.189   General application procedure
   
153.190   Application procedures
   
153.191   General requirements for all applications
   
153.192   Planning and Zoning Board action
   
153.193   Town Council
   
153.194   Comprehensive Plan change
   
153.195   Procedure for zoning and rezoning changes
   
153.196   Procedure for plat approvals
   
153.197   Procedure for special permits
   
153.198   Procedure for site plan approval
   
153.199   Transfer of development rights
   
153.200   Procedure for special exception
   
153.201   Procedure for variance
Boards and Agencies
   
153.215   Establishment
   
153.216   Planning and Zoning Board
   
153.217   Local Planning Agency
   
153.218   Board of Adjustment
   
153.219   Official town employee staff positions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.230   Enforcement regulations
   
153.231   Administrative remedies
   
153.232   Building permits and certificates of occupancy
   
153.233   Appeals
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement System, see
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This Code shall be entitled the “Land Development Code” of the
town, and shall be referred to as the “Code” or “this chapter”.
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the requirements and
authority of F.S. § 163.3202, (the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and
Land Development Regulation Act); the Town Charter, effective March 19, 1963;
and the general powers of government granted to municipalities pursuant to F.S.
Ch. 166 (the Municipal Home Rule Powers Act).
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General applicability. Except as specifically provided below, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development in the town, and no
development shall be undertaken without prior authorization pursuant to this
code.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Previously issued development permits. The provisions of this
chapter and any amendments thereto shall not affect the validity of any
lawfully issued and effective development permit, if:
         (a)   The development activity authorized by the permit has been
commenced prior to the effective date of this code or any amendment thereto, or
will be commenced after the effective date of this chapter but within six
months of the issuance of the building permit; and
         (b)   The development activity continues without interruption (except
because of war or natural disaster) until the development is complete. If the
development permit expires, any further development on that site shall occur
only in conformity with the requirements of this chapter or amendment thereto.
      (2)   Previously approved development orders. Projects with development
orders that have not expired at the time this chapter or an amendment thereto
is adopted, and on which development activity has commenced or does commence
and proceeds according to the time limits in the regulations under which the
development was originally approved, must meet only the requirements of the
regulations in effect when the development plan was approved. If the
development plan expires or is otherwise invalidated, any further development
on that site shall occur only in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter, or amendment thereto.
   (C)   Requirement for consistency with plan. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to authorize development that is inconsistent with the adopted
Comprehensive Plan of the town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Right-of-way providing a secondary means of access and service to
abutting property.
   BUILDING. Shall include the word STRUCTURE.
   CODE. Reference to “this Code” or “the Code” shall mean the Land Development
Code of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given, or an act to
be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be excluded in
computing the time, but the date on which such proceeding is to be had shall be
included. Whenever any act required to be done pursuant to the provisions of
this Code falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, that act shall be performed on
the next succeeding business day.
   COUNTY. Palm Beach County, Florida.
   F.S. Shall mean the latest edition of the Florida Statutes.
   GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   HIGHWAY. Shall include any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass, overpass or causeway of the town,
dedicated or devoted to public use.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
   LAND. Shall include the surface of land and land areas under water.
   MONTH. Shall mean a calendar month.
   NUMBER. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and
any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear” and “sworn”
shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” or “affirmed”.
   OFFICERS AND DEPARTMENTS. Except as otherwise specifically provided,
whenever any officer, department, board, commission or other agency is referred
to by title alone, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the
words “of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.” Whenever in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter any specific act is required to be done by any
designated officer or official of the town, and such officer or official has
not been appointed, such act shall be performed by the Mayor or his or her
designee. Whenever in accordance with the provisions of this chapter any
specific act is required to be done by any designated officer or official of
the town, such act may be performed by any duly authorized member of his or her
department.
   OR, AND. Or may be read “and” and “and” may be read “or” if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER. Applied to a building, land or water area, the term OWNER shall
include any part owner, joint owner, any unit owner in a cooperative form of
property ownership, any shareholder or stockholder in a corporate form of
cooperative ownership, trustee, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint
tenant or tenant by the entirety of the whole or any part of such building,
land or water area.
   PERSON. Shall extend or be applied to associations, corporations, firms,
partnerships, and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Whenever used with respect to any penalty, the word PERSON, as applied to
partnerships or associations, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and
as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD or PLANNING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board
of the Town of Briny Breezes, in Palm Beach County, Florida.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words “preceding” and “following” mean next before
and next after, respectively.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, canal, waterway, beach, public
building or any place of business or assembly open to the public or frequented
by the public.
   ROADWAY. Shall mean the portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular traffic.
   SHALL and MAY. The term “shall” is always mandatory and the term “may” is
permissive.
   SINGULAR. Shall include the plural.
   SIDEWALK. Shall mean any portion of the street between the curb, or the
lateral line of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Shall mean a written signature and shall include
a mark when a person cannot write.
   STATE. The words “the state” or “this state” shall mean the State of
Florida.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords any means of access
to property. This definition shall include any accessway, such as a street,
road, lane, highway, avenue, boulevard, alley, parkway, viaduct, circle, court,
terrace, place or cul-de-sac and also includes all of the land lying between
the right-of-way lines as delineated on a plat showing such streets, whether
improved or unimproved, but shall not include those accessways such as
easements and rights-of-way intended solely for limited utility purposes, such
as electric power lines, gas lines, telephone lines, water lines, drainage and
sanitary sewers and easements of ingress and egress.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this Code, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   TOWN. The words “the Town” or “this Town” shall mean the Town of Briny
Breezes, in Palm Beach County, Florida.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The words “Town Council” or “the Council” shall mean the Town
Council of the Town of Briny Breezes, Florida.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The term “written” or “in writing” shall be construed
to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing
or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.004 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this code is to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, comfort, amenities, protection of property and
property values and the general welfare of the town.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of this chapter is to provide a wholesome,
serviceable and attractive town, by adopting land development regulations which
are consistent with and implement the town’s adopted Comprehensive Plan. This
intent will be accomplished by adopting regulations and restrictions: that
increase the safety and security of home life; that preserve and create a more
favorable environment; that stabilize and enhance property and civic values;
that preserve the character, quality and historical nature of existing uses,
while providing for the development of new and uniformly just land use
patterns; that facilitate adequate provisions for increased safety in traffic,
transportation, vehicular parking, parks, parkways, recreation, public
buildings, housing, light, air, water supply, sewerage, sanitation and other
public requirements; that provide regulations for concurrency management,
signage, landscaping requirements and administrative and permitting procedures;
that lessen congestion, disorder and danger; and that provide more reasonable
and serviceable means and methods of protecting and safeguarding the economic
structures upon which the general welfare depends.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.005 METHODOLOGY.
   In order to more effectively protect and promote the general welfare and to
accomplish the aims and purposes of the town’s Comprehensive Plan, the town is
divided into districts of such number, shape and area, and of such common unity
of purpose, adaptability or use, that are deemed suitable to provide the best
general civic use, to protect the common rights and interests of all, and to
promote improved wholesome, sightly, harmonious and economic results in civic
service, activities and operations. By further regulations, the town shall
limit the locations, uses and occupancy of buildings, structures and land and
water areas to be used for trade, residence or other purposes; shall provide
for the location, height, bulk, occupancy and uses of buildings and other
structures; shall provide for the percentage of plot occupancy and coverage,
for street setback lines, size of yards and other open spaces; shall provide
for special exceptions in event of hardship; and shall provide for penalties
for the violation hereof.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.006 OBJECTIVES FOR CODE ADOPTION.
   With regard to this chapter in general, the provisions hereof shall be
construed and implemented to achieve the following intentions and purposes of
the Town Council:
   (A)   To establish the regulations, procedures and standards for review and
approval of all proposed development in the town;
   (B)   To foster and preserve public health, safety, comfort and welfare, and
to aid in the harmonious, orderly, aesthetically pleasing and socially
beneficial development of the town in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   To adopt a development review process that is:
      (1)   Efficient, in terms of time and expense;
      (2)   Effective, in terms of addressing the natural resources and public
facility implications of proposed development; and
      (3)   Equitable, in terms of consistency with established regulations and
procedures, respect for the rights of property owners and consideration of the
interests of the citizens of the town.
   (D)   To implement the adopted Comprehensive Plan of the town as required by
the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation
Act; and
   (E)   To provide specific procedures to ensure concurrency, whereby
development orders and permits are conditioned on the availability of public
facilities and services that meet level of service requirements.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.007 REQUIREMENTS OF THE CODE.
   (A)   The regulations and provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the
minimum requirements adopted to encourage orderly growth and the protection and
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, order,
appearance, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   If more stringent regulations, restrictions and controls over the use
and occupancy of buildings, structures and land and water areas within the
town, arise from a private contractual relationship between property owners, or
by the rules, regulations, easements and property rights existing between
private parties under a corporate form of cooperative ownership, the provisions
of this subchapter shall not supersede or cancel them.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.008 NON-ABROGATION.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or interfere with any
of the covenants, rules, regulations or by-laws of any property owners
association or corporation created for such purpose, including the provisions
contained in cooperative property agreements, proprietary leases, cooperative
land ownership and the requirements, rules and regulations imposed under
corporate shareholder relationships.
   (B)   The enforcement of all such property rights, easements, covenants and
other agreements between property owners, unit occupants, shareholders and
stockholders having rights under a corporate form of cooperative land ownership
created for such purposes, shall be adjusted directly between the parties
themselves, without the involvement of the town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.009 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
the violation of, or the failure to comply with, any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of an infraction of a municipal ordinance and subject to the
penalties provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
ZONING AND LAND USE
§ 153.020 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the specific uses and
restrictions that apply to land use districts established and created in the
land use element of the town’s Comprehensive Plan. These regulations are
intended to allow development and use of property only in compliance with the
goals, objectives and policies of the town as expressed in the town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.021 DEFINITIONS (ZONING).
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To discontinue a use for more than 12 consecutive months.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incident to the principal use of land or
building located on the same lot, plot or parcel. An ACCESSORY USE does not
stand alone, but rather serves or supports the primary use of the lot, plot or
parcel. Examples of ACCESSORY USES include, but may not necessarily be limited
to the following: parking spaces, signs, fences, domestic pet kennels, sheds or
dock boxes, solar panels.
   ALLEY. Right-of-way providing a secondary means of access and service to
abutting property.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building, mobile home or structure, means a
change or re-arrangement in the structural parts or in the existing facilities
or an enlargement thereof, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in
height, or the moving from one location or position to another.
   AREA, LOT. The total area within the property lines, excluding external
streets or the easement for the right of way for streets.
   AWNING. A roof or covering over a patio, porch or window area which is
permanently open on three sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. A structure, including a manufactured housing unit or qualified
modular home, with or without a roof, intended for shelter, occupancy or
enclosure, other than a boundary wall or fence. All building construction,
renovation, and demolition in the town, and all exterior work associated with a
mobile home in the town shall be subject to the requirements of the then
current edition of the Florida Building Code.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building on a lot, or on a combination of lots unified in a single building
site, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main or
principal building.
   BUILDING, BACK SIDE. The non-entry side of the building, home or mobile
home.
   BUILDING, FRONT END. The front end of the building, home or mobile home.
   BUILDING, FRONT SIDE. The side nearest the front line of the lot. The front
side of a waterfront lot shall be the side abutting the street serving the lot.
The side of the lot which is bounded by water, shall be considered the rear
side.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT. Overall building height is the vertical distance from the
crown of the nearest adjacent street or road to the highest point of the roof.
   BUILDING LINE. The line established by law, beyond which a building shall
not extend, except as specifically provided herein. Also referred to herein as
SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING, REAR SIDE. The rear side is the side opposite the front side.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the town, or his or her
designated representative.
   BUILDING, REAR END. The back, or rear end of the building, home or mobile
home.
   CABANA. A small shelter, expando, screen room or secondary unit to a
building, home or mobile home.
   CARPORT. A roofed area open on one, two or three sides and attached to a
main building, for the storage of one or more vehicles.
   CLUB. Buildings or facilities owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person or persons for a social, educational or recreational
purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is
customarily carried on as a business.
   COMBINATION UNIT. A combination of a building, home or mobile home used in
conjunction with a cabana, a porch, or an awning, or any combination thereof.
   COUNCIL, TOWN. The Town Council of the Town of Briny Breezes.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, which is bounded on
three or more sides by walls in excess of three feet in height, at least one,
but not more than three of which are the walls of a building.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   CROWN OF THE ROAD. The highest point of the road.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, including a governmental agency, undertaking any
development.
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying out of any building activity or operation, the
making of any material change in the use or appearance of any structure or
land, or the dividing of land into three or more parcels.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER. Any order granting, denying or granting with conditions
an application for a development permit.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any building permit, zoning permit, subdivision
approval, rezoning, certification, special exception, special permit, site plan
approval, plat approval, transfer of development rights, variance, or any other
official action of the town having the effect of permitting the development of
land.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the certain described area of the Town of Briny
Breezes Zoning Map to which these regulations apply and within which the zoning
regulations are uniform.
   DOCK. A structure built on or over the water which is designed or used to
provide anchorage for and access to one or more boats. PIERS shall be
synonymous with DOCK.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. Any building, home or mobile home used wholly for
habitation and occupancy by one family. This includes MOBILE HOMES,
MANUFACTURED HOMES, MODULAR HOMES, and ELEVATED SINGLE FAMILY HOMES.
   EGRESS ROOF ACCESS WINDOW. A skylight or roof window designed and installed
to satisfy the emergency escape and rescue opening requirements of Section
R310.2, Florida Building Code.
   ELEVATED SINGLE FAMILY HOME. A room or rooms connected together constituting
a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for a single family, for
owner occupancy, or for rental or lease to a single family and physically
separated from other dwelling units, and containing sleeping and sanitary
facilities and one kitchen elevated to meet all requirements of the Florida
Building Code and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   EXCAVATIONS. Removal of earth material for purposes other than that
incidental to and used on the site of authorized construction.
   EXISTING USE. Lots, structures, occupancies, uses, characteristics of use,
or a combination thereof that are existing as of the date of adoption of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption, and not more than two persons not so related, living together as a
single housekeeping unit.
   FILL. Material such as soil, gravel, or crushed stone which is deposited in
an area to increase the ground elevation. FILL is usually placed in layers and
compacted, or, where the density of earth fill is increased so that it will
provide a sound base.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed space for the storage of one or more motor
vehicles, provided that no business occupation or service is conducted for
profit therein.
   GRADE, ESTABLISHED. The elevation of the centerline of the streets as
officially established by the town.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks and roads brought to
grades as shown on official plans or designs relating thereto.
   GREENHOUSE. A structure constructed, in part, with glass, plastic or other
transparent or translucent material, designed for and/or utilized for the
growing of plants and flowers.
   HEDGE. A fence or boundary formed by a row of shrubs or low trees planted
close together, including a thicket when planted as a fence or boundary.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Occupations carried on entirely within a dwelling and only
by members of the family permanently living therein, where products are not
offered for sale from the premises and no commercial vehicles are kept on the
premises or parked overnight on the premises.
   LANDING PLATFORM. A landing provided as the top step of a stairway accessing
a loft.
   LIMITED STORAGE. That which is incidental and accessory to the principal use
of the structure. For example, if the structure is a residence, storage should
be limited to items such as lawn and garden equipment, tires, and other low
damage items which will not suffer flood damage or can be conveniently moved to
the elevated part of the building. Flood insurance coverage for enclosures
below the base flood elevation (BFE) is very limited.
   LOFT. A floor level located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the main
floor, open to the main floor on one or more sides with a ceiling height of
less than six feet eight inches (2,032 mm) and used as a living or sleeping
space.
   LOT. Same as SPACE. Abutting lots, when combined and unified as a single
building site, shall be considered as one lot or space. A lot can support
MOBILE HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOMES, MODULAR HOMES, and ELEVATED SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersections.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot which is not a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines abounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner lot,
only one street line shall be considered as a front line; provided, where the
length of a shorter street line is less than 90% of the length of the longer
street lot line, the shorter line shall be considered the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite or most distant from the front lot
line. In case of an irregular, triangular or gore-shaped lot, wherein the two
side lot lines converge in the rear, it shall mean a line within the lot, ten
feet in length, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The lot line which forms a side boundary of a lot is not a
front lot line nor a rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets or highways.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area. An unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure, including but not limited to breakaway wall
enclosures, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage
is considered a LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as
to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME or HOUSING UNIT. A mobile home fabricated on or after June
15, 1976, in an offsite manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at
the building site, with each section bearing a seal certifying that it is built
in compliance with the federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standard Act. All manufactured home construction, renovation, and demolition in
the town shall be subject to the requirements of the then current edition of
the Florida Building Code, as well as F.S. Ch. 553, Part 1.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY. Same as MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME LOT (SPACE). Same as TRAILER SITE. A parcel of land within a
mobile home park which is designed to accommodate one mobile home, trailer,
manufactured housing unit or qualified modular home, together with accessory
buildings or structures, and including the open spaces required under this
code.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure which is transportable in one or more sections,
which is eight body feet or more in width and which is built on an integral
chassis, and designed to be used as a single family, one-story dwelling when
connected to the required utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. The initials M.H. shall
be used as the abbreviation of this term. With the exception of exterior work
associated with a mobile home that is subject to the Florida Building Code, all
MOBILE HOMES in the town, and all interior renovation of mobile homes in the
town shall be subject to the requirements of the then current edition of the
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, promulgated by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Mobile/Manufactured Home
Repair and Remodeling Code (F.A.C. § 15-C-2.0081) pursuant to the Manufactured
Housing Improvement Act.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A use of land in which lots or spaces are offered for
ownership, proprietorship, rent or lease for the placement thereon of mobile
homes, trailers, manufactured homes or qualified modular homes, in a community
setting or park in which the primary use is residential. Same as MANUFACTURED
HOUSING COMMUNITY.
   MODULAR HOME. A building which is assembled on an approved building site
from components manufactured off-site in the form of separate elements or
modular units produced in standardized sizes and designs which can be arranged
and fitted together in a variety of relationships that upon completion form a
detached one story single-family residence.
   MODULAR HOME, QUALIFIED. A modular home that meets each of the following
requirements:
   (1)   The separate elements or modular units are fabricated off-site into
one or more structures or sections on an integral frame or chassis with running
gear attached;
   (2)   The structures or sections are designed and built to be drawn as a
vehicle upon the streets and highways by a motorized towing vehicle;
   (3)   The structures or sections are designed and built so that the exterior
of the finished housing unit is similar to a mobile home in style and
appearance; and
   (4)   The finished housing unit is one designed and manufactured for
assembly upon a mobile home lot for occupancy as a detached single-family one-
story dwelling unit in a mobile home park when connected to the required
utilities, including the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. An area of approximately nine feet in width by 20 feet
in depth for the parking of one automobile. Newly established off-street
parking facilities, including access drives and aisles, shall be paved
according to specifications of the Florida Department of Transportation or as
approved by the town. Commercial parking spaces may be marked by edging,
painted lines, precast curbs or similar fashion to indicate the individual
parking space. Residential parking spaces may include the driveway, carport or
garage, or any space of any dimension which are provided by an owner for
vehicle parking purposes.
   OPEN SPACE - YARD. An unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with
a building or mobile home.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land area, the term OWNER shall include
any part owner, joint owner, corporate owner, any unit owner in a cooperative
form of property ownership, any shareholder in a corporate form of cooperative
ownership, trustee, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building, mobile home,
land or water area.
   OWNER OF PROPERTY. Same as OWNER.
   PARKING. The temporary, transient storage of motor vehicles used for
transportation, while their operators are engaged in other activities.
   PARKING PAD. A hard and durable surface constructed of a permeable surface
such as permeable interlocking brick, permeable pavers or similar material
designed and constructed to ensure a stable surface for the parking of motor
vehicles and similar items.
   PATIO. A flat concrete or wood floor not over seven and one-half inches
above the ground.
   PIERS. Vertical support member of masonry.
   PORCH. A concrete or wood floor higher than seven and one-half inches above
the ground and generally with a railing around it.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Same as OWNER.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any organization, either private or governmental, which owns
and/or operates facilities for the rendering of services to the general public,
such as electric, gas, communications, television signals, transportation,
water supply, sewage disposal, water conservation, drainage and garbage or
refuse disposal.
   RESTAURANT. Every building or other structure and all outbuildings in
connection therewith and any room or rooms within any building or other
structure or any place of location kept, used, maintained and advertised as or
held out to the public for the primary purpose as a place where food is
prepared and served, either gratuitously or for consideration.
   SETBACK. Shall be synonymous with the words BUILDING LINE.
   SIGN or SIGNS. An object or device which is designed, intended, used or
located so as to be visible by the public from outdoors for the purpose of
advertising the property, establishment or enterprise, including roads and
services, upon which the sign is located, or to convey a non-commercial
message. This definition shall include all parts, portions, frame, background,
structure, support and anchorage thereof.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance
or prosperity is permissible. Such uses may be permitted in such zoning
districts as special exceptions as outlined in the applicable zoning district.
   SPECIAL PERMIT. A conditional approval by the town for a temporary use not
provided for under the general regulations of this chapter.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE. Applies to total size of a lot or site and for a rectangular
lot is determined by multiplication of the width of the lot or site by the
depth of the lot or site. The SQUARE FOOTAGE  of a building, structure or
mobile home, which is rectangular in shape, shall be determined by the
multiplication of the exterior width of the building, structure or mobile home,
by the exterior length of such unit.
   SPACE. Same as LOT, and means a parcel of land within a mobile home park,
which may be made up of a combination of lots held under a unity of title,
which is designed to accommodate one mobile home, trailer or manufactured
housing unit.
   STORY. The part of a building contained between any floor and the floor or
roof next above.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords any means of access
to property. This definition shall include any accessway, such as a street,
road, lane, highway, avenue, boulevard, alley, parkway, viaduct, circle, court,
terrace, place or cul-de-sac and also includes all of the land lying between
the right-of-way lines as delineated on a plat showing such streets, whether
improved or unimproved, but shall not include those accessways such as
easements and rights-of-way intended solely for limited utility purposes, such
as electric power lines, gas lines, telephone lines, water lines, drainage and
sanitary sewers and easements of ingress and egress.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the land, or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the land. A driveway shall be considered a STRUCTURE for the
purpose of this subchapter; moreover, any concrete, asphalt or other permanent
surfacing placed upon a lot such as, but not limited to, a concrete slab under
a mobile home, a foundation for an ELEVATED SINGLE FAMILY HOME, an open patio,
air conditioning pad or an apron adjacent to a swimming pool shall also be
considered a structure for the purpose of this subchapter and for the purpose
of determining setback lines. A mobile home, trailer or manufactured housing
unit, affixed to a lot, shall be considered a STRUCTURE.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING NEED. A need for temporary housing within the town created
by, a hurricane or other disaster-related event that has damaged or destroyed a
substantial number of the permanent places of residence within the town causing
the displacement of the occupants thereof who need safe, sanitary and adequate
housing to continue their residency within the town until their homes can be
repaired, rebuilt or replaced.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING NEED DECLARATION. A declaration by the Town Council that
an emergency exists producing a serious threat to the public, health, safety
and general welfare due to the damage or destruction of the town from a
hurricane or other disaster related event that has displaced a substantial
number of residents from their homes and has created an emergency need for
temporary housing units to provide them with safe, sanitary and adequate
housing for their continued shelter until their homes can be repaired, rebuilt
or replaced, and that also authorizes the use of temporary housing units for
such purpose. The Town Council shall enact a declaration for the need for
temporary housing units whenever required to protect the public against a
serious threat to its health, safety and general welfare.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING UNIT. Including any unit that may be supplied for such
purpose by a governmental agency, FEMA or any other bona fide disaster relief
agency, is hereby defined as any self-contained trailer, travel trailer or
motorized recreational vehicle, except a pop-out or a tent, that is designed
and constructed for temporary or continuous use for human habitation, provided
that it also meets all temporary housing requirements of the town’s Building
Code.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the design of which or
intended use of which, is other than permanent, long term or indefinite life,
by design or use.
   TERRACE. An unoccupied open space, which is contiguous to and bounded on at
least one, but not more than two sides by the walls of a building. It may be
bounded on one or more of the other sides by a wall or similar enclosure having
a height of three feet or less.
   TRAILER. Same as MOBILE HOME.
   TRAILER PARK. Same as MOBILE HOME PARK.
   TRAILER SITE. Same as MOBILE HOME LOT OR SPACE. A lot, space or plot of
ground within a mobile home park or trailer park, designated for the
accommodation of not more than one mobile home, trailer, manufactured housing
unit or qualified modular home.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. Same as TRAILER or MOBILE HOME.
   TRUSTEE. A legal representative of another person under a trust
relationship. Where a trustee is an owner of property in the town, this term
shall have the same meaning as OWNER.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land, buildings or structures are
designated, arranged, intended or used for which purpose it is or may be
occupied, used or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A waiver or relief from the specific area and bulk requirements of
the zoning ordinance or code where such variance will not be contrary to the
public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not
the result of actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance
or code would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, bus, trailer (but only when in mobile
operating condition), camper, motorcycle or motor home used to transport people
or goods.
   VERTICAL DATUM. A surface of zero elevation to which heights of various
points are referenced and is a collection of specific points on the Earth with
known heights either above or below mean sea level. Near coastal areas, mean
sea level is determined with a tide gauge. The National Geodetic Survey is
responsible (among other things) for the definition, access and maintenance of
geodetic vertical datums. The current VERTICAL DATUM for the contiguous United
States and Alaska is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88).
Datums are maintained and updated by the National Geodetic Survey and generally
there is a conversion factor between one datum and the next when a new one is
adopted.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
the front line of the building, projected to the side line of the lot. The
depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front line of the
building and the street line.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the
lot and the rear line of the building, projected to the side lines of the lot.
The depth of the REAR YARD shall be measured between the rear line of the lot
and the rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line which is not a rear line or front
line shall be deemed a side lot line.
   ZONING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board of the Town of Briny Breezes.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. The Zoning Official of the Town of Briny Breezes, or his or
her designated representative.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-96, passed 7-25-1996; Ord. 2-08, passed 9-
25-2008; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020; Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.022 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Establishment of use districts. For the purpose of promoting the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community, and to
preserve the residential character of the community of the town, which has been
created in part by its unique geography, the town, is hereby divided into the
following designated zoning districts:
      (1)   Residential Mobile Home District I (RMH-I);
      (2)   Residential Mobile Home District II (RMH-II);
      (3)   Residential Mobile Home District III (RMH-III);
      (4)   Residential Mobile Home District IV (RMH-IV);
      (5)   Residential Mobile Home District V (RMH-V);
      (6)   Commercial District (C-1);
      (7)   Public and Semi-Public District (PSP-1);
      (8)   Recreation District (R-1); and
      (9)   Parking and Landscape District (PL-1).
   (B)   Designation of district boundaries. The boundaries of each district
are designated and established as shown on the official zoning map of the town.
The zoning district categories or type of usage correspond to the land use
designations shown on the existing and future land use maps of the town. The
land which is designated for residential use on the aforesaid land use maps is
further divided into five residential mobile home districts based upon the
existing development located within each district and its individual traditions
and patterns of community development. The boundaries of the districts shown
upon the official zoning map are hereby adopted and approved. The regulations
of this code governing the use of land and water, buildings and structures, the
height of buildings, lot areas, setbacks, floor areas, lot coverage, parking
and loading requirements, are hereby declared to be in effect upon all land and
water included within the boundaries of each and every district shown upon the
official zoning map.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.023 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Generally. In case any uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the
districts on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply to
determine the location of district boundary lines.
   (B)   Centerlines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets and roadways shall be construed as following such lines.
   (C)   Lot, section and tract lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately
following platted lot lines, section or tract lines shall be construed as
following such lines.
   (D)   Political boundaries. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
political boundaries shall be construed as following such political boundaries.
   (E)   Shorelines. Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be
construed as following such shorelines, and in the event of any change in the
shoreline, such boundary shall be construed as moving, with the actual
shoreline.
   (F)   Miscellaneous uncertainties. Where physical or other features on the
ground are at variance with those on the official zoning map, or in case of
other uncertainty, the Town Council shall interpret the boundary line in
harmony with the intent of this chapter and the official comprehensive zoning
map.
   (G)   Street abandonments. Where a pubic road, street or alley is officially
vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to the property to which it
reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned road, street or alley.
   (H)   Excluded areas. Where parcels of land and water areas have been
inadvertently excluded from a zoning district classification in any manner,
said parcels shall be un-classified until official action is taken to classify
same.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.024 EXISTING USES.
   (A)   Generally. The town is a fully developed community which was designed
and intended predominantly for residential use in single-family mobile homes. A
lesser area of the town is fully developed to support and serve the residential
use under various nonresidential land uses. Less than one acre of vacant land
is available for new development, which would be utilized within the existing
pattern of development. There is no realistic opportunity for annexation of
additional lands to increase the town boundaries. The primary concern of the
town, therefore, is to continue the present pattern of land development and the
existing use and occupancy of the mobile homes and buildings thereof by the
citizens and residents of the town while also recognizing the need to permit
more resilient home construction opportunities.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to permit the
continuation of those lots, mobile homes and buildings, structures, occupancy,
uses, characteristics of use or combinations thereof, which were in accordance
with the regulations that were in effect before the passage of this subchapter
and the Land Development Code of the town, including any such use and occupancy
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this code
or any future amendments thereto. For purposes of this subchapter, an EXISTING
USE is defined as a lot, structure, occupancy or use or combination thereof
that was in existence before the effective date of this subchapter and this
chapter. Any structure in an “existing use” area may from time to time be
repaired or improved, provided however that any such repair or improvement
shall not extend the structure beyond its reasonable useful life expectancy,
nor reduce the amount of required open space, nor reduce the minimum setback
requirement. It is the further purpose of this subchapter that all future
replacement of mobile homes must meet the current setback requests and must
also conform to the new regulations applicable thereto.
   (C)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter and this chapter to accept
and approve the use, lots, structures and all characteristics of use and
occupancy of those mobile homes, trailers and manufactured housing units and
conventional buildings and structures which were in conformance prior to the
enactment of this subchapter and the land development code of the town, which
are located within the Districts designated as Residential Mobile Home
Districts I through V, inclusive, Commercial District, Parking and Landscaping
District, Public and Semi-Public District and Recreation District, as shown on
the official zoning map of the town.
   (D)   Overlay district. Given the location of the town on a barrier island,
and the increasing impacts of sea level rise and coastal flooding, the town
recognizes the benefit to residents for home construction that permits
residential units within existing lots. In order to support such construction,
the town has created an overlay district that will maintain the underlying
residential setbacks and dimensions, but allow for limited vertical home
construction in Districts I through IV so that property owners can elevate
homes out of the floodplain with permanent structures. Elevation of properties
(not homes) with fill in Districts III and IV will be phased to address
flooding impacts that will occur in conjunction with home reconstruction and in
coordination with other capital improvements including, but not limited to
roads, drainage and the shoreline. The goal is to maintain the character of the
town, but to support resilient elevated residential units (limited to two
stories) and properties that will reduce risk and hazards to people and
property.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.025 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. All development undertaken in the town and all development
orders and permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be consistent with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan for the town.
   (B)   Use and occupancy. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no
building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located. All uses,
densities and activities in the town shall comply with land use elements of the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Construction and remodeling. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, no building shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards or side yards,
than is specified herein for the district in which such building is located.
   (D)   Preserving existing setback and spacing requirements. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, the minimum setback requirements, yard
areas and spacing requirements between mobile homes shall be maintained against
further reduction in the event of replacement of existing structures by new
mobile home or other residential units. No part of a yard or other open space
required adjacent to any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this subchapter shall be included as part of a yard or other open
space required for another building.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.026 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Map adoption. The town, hereby adopts by reference as a part of this
subchapter, an official zoning map together with all explanatory matter and
attendant documents which may be supplementary or attached thereto. The
composite group of the official zoning map and any such explanatory matter and
attendant documents, shall be exhibits which shall be made a part of,
incorporated into and attached to the official town ordinance adopting this
chapter. Originals of the official zoning map may be retained in the
administration offices of the town or displayed in the Town Hall meeting room.
A copy shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk. The official zoning
map shall be a part of the public records of the town and shall be made
available for public inspection and shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other structures,
in the incorporated area of the town.
   (B)   Map amendment. No changes or amendments to the official zoning map
shall be made except in compliance and conformity with all legal procedures and
requirements. If, in accordance with these procedures, changes or amendments
are made to district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the
official zoning map, such changes or amendments shall be made promptly after
official adoption of the change or amendment as provided for herein. The Town
Council shall designate the person or agency who shall be responsible for the
updating and amendment of the official zoning map.
   (C)   Map replacement. In the event that the official zoning map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature and
number of changes and additions, the Town Council may adopt a new official
zoning map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new
official zoning map may correct any drafting and clerical errors or omissions
in the prior official zoning map, but no such corrections shall have the effect
of amending the code or any subsequent amendment thereto without a duly noticed
hearing, as provided for herein. Unless the prior official zoning map(s) has
been lost or destroyed, the prior map(s) or any significant parts thereof
remaining shall be preserved together with all available records pertaining to
its adoption and amendment.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.027 ZONING USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Residential districts. The residential zoning district of the town
shall consist of the areas shown as residential (mobile home) use districts on
the official zoning map of the town. This residential area or zone is further
divided into five sub-districts or zones which are named, designated and
located with reference to the Park Plat for the town as hereinafter set forth.
An Elevated Single Family Home Overlay District (ESFH-1) shall apply in
specific residential districts as specified in § 153.0285 and this code. The
provisions of the ESFH-1 Overlay District shall apply in addition to the
applicable requirements of the underlying zoning district.
   (B)   Development pattern and density.
      (1)   The town is fully developed. All current residential structures in
the town are single-family, one-story mobile homes.
      (2)   There are approximately 550 platted lots or spaces for mobile home
or other residential unit placement in the town. Lot configuration is either
rectangular or aligned on a bias as a parallelogram.
      (3)   Lot size varies from the approximate dimensions of 30 to 70 feet in
length and 20 to 40 feet in width. Lot area varies from the approximate minimum
of 800 square feet to the approximate maximum of 3,000 square feet. The total
land area of the town is approximately 43 acres.
      (4)   The area comprising the five residential mobile home districts of
the town has, collectively, an approximate average density of 26 units per
acre. This is the maximum allowable for the average density for the town.
   (C)   RMH - I District Location. Residential Mobile Home District I (RMH-I)
shall be the present Block 1 of the Park Plat, bounded by Briny Breezes
Boulevard, Ruthmary Avenue, old Ocean Boulevard and Highway A1A.
   (D)   RMH - I setback dimensions. The setback dimensions for the mobile
homes in the RMH-I District shall be as stated in the following table and
notes.
 
Setback Dimension Table for RMH-I District
Rows   Item Front-End Setback    Rear-End Setback From Setback Between Other
                                 Lot Line              Sides of Adjacent Units
A & F  M.H. Edge of sidewalk     2 feet                10 feet
F20-27 M.H. Inside wall          2 feet                10 feet
B & E  M.H. 2 feet from street   2 feet                10 feet
CD     M.H. 1 foot 6 inches from 1 foot 6 inches from  10 feet
            street               street
Notes to setback table for RMH-I District:
A. The term SIDEWALK as used in the above table means the east-west sidewalk
along the north side of Briny Breezes Boulevard for the Lots in Block A, and
the east-west sidewalk along the south side of Ruthmary Avenue for the Lots in
Block F.
B. The term STREET as used in the above table means Bamboo Drive for the Lots
in Block B, Bamboo and Cedar Drive in Block CD, and Cedar Drive for the Lots
in Block E.
C. East Setbacks.
1. In addition to the setbacks required by the above table, the general rule
is hereby established that there shall also be a minimum setback of one foot
from the west edge of the north-south sidewalk along the west side of Old
Ocean Boulevard, subject to the further modifications that follow.
2. For Lots A-2 and E-1, the east side setback that is established in the
above Setback Table does not apply. The east side setback for Lots A-2 and E-
l shall be a minimum of one foot from the west edge of the north-south
sidewalk along the west side of Old Ocean Boulevard.
3. For Lots B-1, CD-1 and F-1, there shall be established a minimum setback of
one foot from the west edge of the north-south sidewalk along the west side of
Old Ocean Boulevard in addition to those setbacks included in the above
Setback Table.
D. All patio awnings, including gutters, must be at least five feet from any
other structure.
E. Cabana (add-a-room) shall be set five feet from front and rear of the
mobile home. When the lot backs into another lot in the rear, the cabana or
add-a-room must be at least seven feet from rear lot line.
F. There must be ten feet between any two enclosed structures except when the
rear of the structure is opposite the rear of another structure. Example:
between two single-wide mobile homes or between a single-wide mobile home and
a double-wide mobile home.
G. All roof extensions and protrusions shall be included and referenced as
points of measurement in determining setbacks. The only exception will be for
siding, door casings and window casings, which shall not exceed a maximum of
one and one-half inches, and for gutters, which shall not exceed a maximum of
five inches. No extension shall be allowed over a public right-of-way.
 
   (E)   RMH-II District location. Residential Mobile Home District II (RMH-II)
shall be present Block 2 of the Park Plat, bounded by Ruthmary Avenue, Cordova
Avenue, old Ocean Boulevard and Highway A1A, but excluding the shuffle board
and accessory area which is part of the Recreation (R-1) District.
   (F)   RMH-II setback dimensions. The setback dimensions for the mobile homes
in the RMH-II District shall be as stated in the following table and notes.
Setback dimension table for RMH-II District
Rows Item Front-end Setback Rear-End Setback From Lot Setback Between Other
                            Line                      Sides of Adjacent Units
Setback dimension table for RMH-II District
Rows  Item   Front-end Setback  Rear-End Setback From   Setback Between Other
                                Lot Line                Sides of Adjacent Units
      M.H.   Edge of sidewalk   2 feet                  10 feet
G & L Awning 1 foot from M.H.   2 feet from M.H. corner N/A
             corner
      M.H.   1 foot from street 2 feet                  10 feet
H & K Awning 1 foot from M.H.   2 feet from M.H. corner N/A
             corner
      M.H    2 feet from street 2 feet                  10 feet
I & J Awning 1 foot from M.H.   2 feet from M.H. corner N/A
             corner
Notes to setback table for RMH-II District
A. The term SIDEWALK as used in the above table means the east-west sidewalk
along the north side of Ruthmary Avenue for the Lots in Block G, and the east-
west sidewalk along the south side of Cordova Avenue for the Lots in Block L.
B. The term STREET as used in the above table means Hibiscus Drive, excluding
the north-south portion thereof, for the lots in Blocks H and I, and Juniper
Drive for the lots in Blocks J and K.
C. East setbacks.
1. In addition to the setbacks required by the above table, the general rule is
hereby established that there shall also be a minimum setback of one foot from
the west edge of the north-south sidewalk along the west side of Old Ocean
Boulevard, subject to the further modifications that follow.
2. For Lots G-2, I-1 and K-2, the east side setback that is established in the
above Setback Table does not apply. The east side setback for Lots G-2, I-1 and
K-2 shall be a minimum of one foot from the west edge of the north-south
sidewalk along the west side of Old Ocean Boulevard.
3. For Lots H-1, J-1 and L-2, there shall be established a minimum setback of
one foot from the west edge of the north-south sidewalk along the west side of
old Ocean Boulevard in addition to those setbacks included in the above Setback
Table.
D. All patio awnings, including gutters, must be at least five feet from any
other structure.
E. Cabana (add-a-room) shall only be allowed on double lots and shall be set
five feet from the front and rear of the mobile home. When the lot backs into
another lot in the rear, the cabana or add-a-room must be at least seven feet
from the rear lot line.
F. There must be ten feet between any two enclosed structures except when the
rear of the structure is opposite the rear of another structure. Example:
between two single-wide mobile homes or between a single-wide mobile home and a
double-wide mobile home.
G. All roof extensions and protrusions shall be included and referenced as
points of measurement in determining setbacks. The only exception will be for
siding, door casings and window casings, which shall not exceed a maximum of
one and one-half inches, and for gutters, which shall not exceed a maximum of
five inches. No extension shall be allowed over a public right-of-way.
 
   (G)   RMH-III District location. Residential Mobile Home District III (RMH-
III) shall be the present Block 4 and 5 of the Park Plat, bounded by the south
town boundary line, Flamingo Drive, Banyan Boulevard and Marine Way, but
excluding the marina property which is part of the Recreation (R-1) District.
   (H)   RMH-III setback dimensions. The setback dimensions for the mobile
homes in the RMH-III District shall be as stated in the following table and
notes:
 
Setback dimension table for RMH-III District
                                   Rear-End Setback From Setback Between Other
Rows       Item Front-End Setback  Lot Line              Sides of Adjacent
                                                         Units
BCDEHIJKLM M.H. 2 feet from street See notes             10 feet
                to M.H. corner
FGN        M.H. 1 foot from street See notes             10 feet
Notes to setback table for RMH-III District
A. All patio awnings, including gutters, must be at least five feet from any
other structure.
B. Cabana (add-a-room) shall be set five feet from front and rear of the
mobile home. When the lot backs into another lot in the rear, the cabana or
add-a-room must be at least seven feet from rear lot line.
C. There must be ten feet between any two enclosed structures except when the
rear of the structure is opposite the rear of another structure. Example:
between two single-wide mobile homes or between a single-wide mobile home and
a double-wide mobile home. An exception is permitted when the rear back sides
of two mobile homes are opposite each other, in which event the minimum
spacing requirement is four feet. When replacing an existing mobile home, the
present spacing must be maintained, which is from four feet up to ten feet.
D. All roof extensions and protrusions shall be included and referenced as
points of measurement in determining setbacks. The only exception will be for
siding, door casings and window casings, which shall not exceed a maximum of
one and one-half inches, and for gutters, which shall not exceed a maximum of
five inches. No extension shall be allowed over a public right-of-way.
 
   (I)   RMH-IV District location. Residential Mobile Home District IV (RMH-IV)
shall be the present Blocks 6, 7, and 8 of the Park Plat, bounded by Flamingo
Drive, the north town boundary, Banyan Boulevard and the Intracoastal Waterway.
   (J)   RMH-IV setback dimensions. The setback dimensions for the mobile homes
in the RMH-IV District shall be as stated in the following table and notes.
 
Rows  Item Front-End Setback  Rear-End Setback From Lot Setback Between Other
                              Line                      Sides of Adjacent Units
                              13 feet from inside of    10 feet but 3 feet, 6
OQRT  M.H. To street          seawall                   inches from common lot
                                                        line
                                                        10 feet but 3 feet, 6
P & S M.H. 2 feet from street See notes                 inches from common lot
                                                        line
U     M.H. 2 feet from street 6 feet from inside of     3 feet, 6 inches from
                              seawall                   common lot line
                                                        10 feet but 3 feet, 6
V     M.H. 2 feet from street                           inches from common lot
                                                        line
Notes to setback table for RMH-IV District
A. A minimum setback of four and one-half feet from South Ibis Drive and one
foot from North Ibis Drive shall apply on Lots S-206, S-207, S-208 and S-209. A
minimum setback of two feet from South Heron and one foot from North Heron
shall apply on lots P-207, P-208, P-209 and P-210.
B. A minimum setback of 13 feet from the water’s edge on the Intracoastal
Waterway shall apply on lots O-214, O-215, Q-213, R-212, T-211 and T-212.
C. All patio awnings, including gutters, must be at least five feet from any
other structure.
D. Cabana (add-a-room) shall be set five feet from the front and rear of the
mobile home.
E. There must be ten feet between any two enclosed structures.
F. All roof extensions and protrusions shall be included and referenced as
points of measurement in determining setbacks. The only exception will be for
siding, door casings and window casings, which shall not exceed a maximum of
one and one-half inches, and for gutters, which shall not exceed a maximum of
five inches. No extension shall be allowed over a public right-of-way.
 
   (K)   RMH-V District location. Residential Mobile Home District V (RMH-V)
shall be that part of the park plat bounded by West Bamboo Drive, Banyan
Boulevard, Marina Drive and Highway A1A.
   (L)   RMH-V setback dimensions. At the present time there is no setback
table and notes to state the setback dimensions for the type of mobile home
units in Residential Mobile Home District V. This division (L) is reserved to
set forth this information when it is established.
   (M)   Minimum setback requirement. Whenever, under the provisions of this
chapter, there has been no specific setback requirement established for any
street or roadway within the town, such as at cross-streets or for lots on
corner locations, a minimum setback requirement shall be established by the
zoning official. This setback requirement shall be used for the siting of any
mobile home having need to be located with reference to the boundary line of
said right-of-way. Any person thereby aggrieved by the distance requirement so
established for this setback may have such decision reviewed by the Town
Council sitting as the Board of Adjustment in the manner provided in this
chapter according to the provisions so made and provided for such appeals.
   (N)   ESFH District location. The ESFH District (ESFH-1) shall consist of
the Residential Mobile Home Districts I through IV which are so designated on
the official zoning map.
   (O)   ESFH setback dimensions. Setback dimensions for the ESFH-1 District
shall be those consistent with the setbacks established in the dimension tables
for the RMH-I, II, III and IV Districts within this section.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-97, passed 3-27-1997; Ord. 4-2017, passed
1-25-2018; Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.028 ORIGIN AND STATUS OF RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. The five mobile home residential districts enumerated above
are each single-family residential districts, consisting of one-story, mobile
home units located, established and put in place prior to the date of enactment
of this subchapter. It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit
and allow each residential mobile home district to continue to accommodate the
housing, use, occupancy and character or theme of such district as it lawfully
existed in this mobile home park prior to the enactment of this subchapter. It
is intended thereby to preserve the character, quality and historical nature of
the existing community, in accordance with the adopted Comprehensive Land Use
Plan for the town.
   (B)   Uses permitted in RMH I to IV Districts. In Residential Mobile Home
Districts I through IV, inclusive, the land, buildings, mobile homes or
premises which constitutes a unified building site, may be used by right only
for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   A detached single-family one story mobile home, trailer,
manufactured housing unit or qualified modular home affixed to a foundation
upon a designated lot;
      (2)   All new mobile home units hereafter located within the town are
required to be all electric;
      (3)   Customary accessory uses and structures, for mobile homes provided
such uses and structures are incidental to the principal use and do not include
any activity not permitted in said district nor commonly conducted as a
business; and/or
      (4)   Support facilities customary for mobile home usage such as limited
recreational areas, open space, restrooms, vehicle parking areas and community
facilities for the use of the town residents, guests and other designees.
   (C)   Special exceptions in RMH I to IV Districts. Utility services,
substations, transmission lines and mains and pipes for utility purposes may be
permitted as a special exception, subject to meeting the requirements for same,
and provided such uses are effectively screened or given other aesthetic
treatment to minimize adverse impact on the surrounding area where it is
practical to do so.
   (D)   Uses permitted in RMH-V District. In Residential Mobile Home District
V (RMH-V), under the present configuration of lots and the existing pattern of
development, the use shall be restricted to the use and occupancy of
recreational and travel trailers only. In the event, however, that the land
area comprising this district should be reconfigured into a new pattern of not
more than eight lots, the uses permitted in this district shall be the same as
for Residential Mobile Home Districts I to IV (RMH I to IV).
   (E)   Purpose and intent for RMH I-IV Districts. The land area comprising
the Residential Mobile Home Districts I through IV inclusive, is fully
developed. It is the purpose and intent of this code to permit and allow each
mobile home, building and structure within these districts to continue the
activities, uses and occupancy thereof as they lawfully existed in this mobile
home park prior to the enactment of this chapter.
   (F)   Site development standards For RMH I-IV Districts. In Residential
Mobile Home Districts I through IV, inclusive, the location and renovation of
mobile homes, the addition of patios and cabanas thereto as combined units, the
requirements for air conditioning equipment, and the placement of utility
cabinets, are subject to the following site development standards.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Installation of mobile home, patio, cabana or add-a-room shall
be subject to the dimensions and setbacks specified in the table and notes
provided for each district.
         (b)   Blocking, anchoring and tie-down shall conform to the Florida
Motor Vehicle Code or Florida Building Code, whichever is the appropriate
governing organization for the home type.
         (c)   All plumbing work and renovations shall conform to the Florida
Building Code including the Florida Plumbing Code, or to the Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards, promulgated by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act, the
Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Code (F.A.C. § 15-C-2.0081), and
the Florida Department of Highways Safety and Motor Vehicles Mobile/
Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Guidelines, as appropriate.
         (d)   All electrical work and renovations shall conform to the Florida
Building Code including the National Electrical Code, or to the Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, promulgated by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Improvement
Act, the Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Code (F.A.C. § 15-C-
2.0081), and the Florida Department of Highways Safety and Motor Vehicles
Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Guidelines, as appropriate.
         (e)   All structural repairs, alterations, installations or
renovations shall conform to the Florida Building Code or to the Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, promulgated by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Improvement
Act, the Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Code (F.A.C. § 15-C-
2.0081), and the Florida Department of Highways Safety and Motor Vehicles
Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Guidelines, as appropriate.
         (f)   New mobile homes are to be all electric.
         (g)   Second level construction or usage is prohibited.
         (h)   Certification by an engineer licensed by the state is required
certifying that the lowest floor elevation to all manufactured homes, mobile
homes, second unit, screen rooms, add-a-rooms and the like is a minimum of
seven feet above mean sea level or pursuant to current regulations promulgated
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (i)   An accessory building shall be located on the same lot as the
principal building.
      (2)   Air conditioning requirements.
         (a)   Central single units and split system condensing units shall be
located beneath the mobile home, where possible and practical, and shall
exhaust to the front or patio side as near to the front of the mobile home, as
possible.
         (b)   Central single units and split system installation of condensing
units shall be made with the unit placed at the front or on the patio side as
near to the front of the mobile home as possible, if unable to conform to the
provisions of division (F)(2)(a) above.
         (c)   Window or wall air conditioning units are not allowed except to
replace units already in existence.
         (d)   Water cooled condensing units are not allowed.
         (e)   No air conditioning unit shall exceed the maximum noise level of
8.2 Bels, as rated by the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute
(A.R.I.).
         (f)   The make, model number, EER rating, noise level and proposed
location for all air conditioning units must be stated in the application for
installation.
         (g)   In Residential Mobile Home District IV (RMH-IV), the air
conditioning unit may be placed in the side yard area on the “back side” (non-
entry side), provided that it does not extend beyond the lot line, and it
otherwise complies with all of the other setback requirements in said district.
      (3)   Utility cabinet requirements.
         (a)   A utility cabinet shall be permitted provided it does not exceed
three feet in depth, six feet in width and six feet in height, and is placed a
minimum of five feet from the rear corner of the mobile home, seven feet
minimum from rear lot line on the patio side.
         (b)   A utility cabinet, the size of which does not exceed 20 inches
in depth, four feet in width and six feet in height, may be installed on the
patio side, parallel to the mobile home, provided it does not extend closer
than one foot to the rear corner of the mobile home.
   (G)   Purpose and intent For RMH-V District. Under the present configuration
of lots and the existing pattern of development, the land area comprising
Residential Mobile Home District V (RMH-V) is limited to the location, use and
occupancy of travel trailers and recreational trailers only. Such use and
occupancy is intended to be of limited and temporary duration only.
   (H)   Site development standards for RMH-V District. All such mobile home
units shall be located on the lots within the RMH-V District on an individual
basis, subject to the following requirements: trailer length shall not exceed
29 feet and the spacing between trailers must be a minimum of ten feet in all
directions.
   (I)   Optional site development standards for RMH-V District. Under the
optional plan of reconfiguration of the land area comprising RMH-V District
into not more than eight lots, the site development standards for this district
shall be the same as for Mobile Home Districts (RMH) I to IV,
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-96, passed 7-25-1996; Ord. 4-2017, passed
1-25-2018; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.0285 ELEVATED SINGLE FAMILY HOOME OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Location of district. The Elevated Single Family Home District (ESFH-
1) shall consist of the Residential Mobile Home Districts I through IV which
are so designated on the official zoning map.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to
permit and allow constructed elevated single family homes (limited to two
stories) in each residential mobile home district to accommodate the housing,
use, occupancy and character or theme of such district except RMH-V, unless the
land area comprising this district is reconfigured into a new pattern of not
more than eight lots. It is intended to preserve the character, quality and
historical nature of the existing community, in accordance with the adopted
Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the town. It is also intended that the purpose
of the ESFH-1 Overlay District is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens; minimize the risk of loss of life and property due to
natural hazards; encourage and regulate prudent land use; reduce the demands
for public expenditures for disaster relief, hazard mitigation, and protection
of structures and facilities permitted in the underlying zone district(s); and
regulate buildings, structures and lot elevation so as to minimize the hazard
to the public health or property.
   (C)   Uses permitted in the ESFH-1 Overlay District. Uses permitted by the
underlying zoning district are allowed unless specifically prohibited. In the
ESFH-1 Overlay District, inclusive, the land, buildings, homes or premises
which constitutes a unified building site, may be used by right only for one or
more of the following purposes:
      (1)   A detached single-family home affixed to a foundation (including on
piers) upon a designated lot;
      (2)   Customary accessory uses and structures, for homes provided such
uses and structures are incidental to the principal use and do not include any
activity not permitted in said district nor commonly conducted as a business;
and/or
      (3)   Support facilities customary for home usage such as limited
recreational areas, open space, restrooms, vehicle parking areas and community
facilities for the use of the town residents, guests and other designees.
   (D)   Special exceptions in the ESFH-1 District. Utility services,
substations, transmission lines and mains and pipes for utility purposes may be
permitted as a special exception, subject to meeting the requirements for same,
and provided such uses are effectively screened or given other aesthetic
treatment to minimize adverse impact on the surrounding area where it is
practical to do so.
   (E)   Site development standards for the ESFH-1 District. In the ESFH-
1 District, inclusive, the location and construction of homes, the addition of
patios and cabanas thereto as combined units, the requirements for air
conditioning equipment, access, limited storage and the placement of utility
cabinets, are subject to the following site development standards. The
provisions of the ESFH-1 District shall apply in addition to the applicable
requirements of the underlying zoning district. When the standards of this
overlay district conflict with any other provision of the code, this overlay
district shall control.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Installation of a home shall be subject to the dimensions and
setbacks specified in the table and notes provided for each district where the
lot is located, RMH I through IV.
         (b)   All plumbing work and renovations shall conform to the Florida
Building Code including the Florida Plumbing Code.
         (c)   All electrical work and renovations shall conform to the Florida
Building Code including the National Electrical Code.
         (d)   All structural repairs, alterations, installations or
renovations shall conform to the Florida Building Code including Appendix Q.
         (e)   All fire safety elements shall meet or exceed the Florida
Building Code, Chapter 7 Fire and Smoke Protection Features, the Florida Fire
Prevention Code, any relevant applicable local technical amendments and all
other applicable requirements of law; including but not limited to, firewalls
or separations between structures.
         (f)   Certification by an engineer licensed by the state is required
certifying that the lowest floor elevation to all homes, second unit, screen
rooms, add-a-rooms and the like is consistent with current regulations
promulgated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Florida Building
Code including freeboard standards.
         (g)   An accessory building shall be located on the same lot as the
principal building.
         (h)   Second story construction or usage building height is permitted
as follows:
            1.   For a second story, the elevation shall be no more than 25
feet as measured from the crown of road.
            2.   In no instance shall a home exceed 25 feet in building height
as measured from the crown of road including mechanical and structural
equipment, so long as the lowest floor is usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage. Breakaway wall and screen
enclosures on such a lowest floor are permitted consistent with the Florida
Building Code. All other building design, including porches or decks, shall be
subject to the dimensions and setbacks specified in the table and notes
provided for each RMH District I through IV.
         (i)   No construction shall include any enclosure below the base flood
elevation which shall be constructed or equipped for such uses as a kitchen,
dining room, family room, recreation room, office, bedroom, bathroom or
workshop.
         (j)   Habitable space and hallways in homes must have a ceiling height
of not less than six feet eight inches (2,032 mm). Bathrooms, toilet room, and
kitchens must have a ceiling height of not less than six feet four inches
(1,930 mm). Obstructions including, but not limited to beams, girders, ducts,
and lighting, must not extend below these minimum ceiling heights. Ceiling
heights in lofts are permitted to be less than six feet eight inches (2,032
mm).
         (k)   Lofts used as a sleeping or living space must meet the following
minimum area and dimension requirements:
            1.   Lofts must have a floor area of not less than 35 square feet
(3.25 square meters).
            2.   Lofts must be not less than five feet (1,524 mm) in any
horizontal dimension.
            3.   Portions of a loft with a sloped ceiling measuring less than
three feet (914 mm) from the finished floor to the finished ceiling may not be
considered as contributing to the minimum required area for the loft. Under
gable roofs with a minimum slope of six units vertical in 12 units horizontal
(50% slope), portions of a loft with a sloped ceiling measuring less than 16
inches (406 mm) from the finished floor to the finished ceiling shall not be
considered as contributing to the minimum required area for the loft.
            4.   The access to and primary egress from lofts may be any of the
following types:
            5.   Stairways accessing lofts shall comply with the Florida
Building Code or with the following:
               a.   Width. Stairways accessing a loft shall be not less than 17
inches (432 mm) in clear width at or above the handrail. The width below the
handrail shall be not less than 20 inches (508 mm).
               b.   Headroom. The headroom above stairways accessing a loft
shall be not less than six feet two inches (1,880 mm), as measured vertically
from a sloped line connecting the tread, landing or platform nosings in the
center of their width, and vertically from the landing platform along the
center of its width.
               c.   Treads and risers. Risers for stairs accessing a loft shall
be not less than seven inches (178 mm) and not more than 12 inches (305 mm) in
height. Tread depth and riser height shall be calculated in accordance with one
of the following formulas: 1) The tread depth shall be 20 inches (508 mm) minus
four-thirds of the riser height; or 2) The riser height shall be 15 inches (381
mm) minus three-fourths of the tread depth.
               d.   Landings platforms. The top tread and riser of stairways
accessing lofts shall be constructed as a landing platform where the loft
ceiling height is less than six feet two inches (1,880 mm) where the stairway
meets the loft. The landing platform shall be not less than 20 inches (508 mm)
in width and depth measured horizontally from and perpendicular to the nosing
of the landing platform. The landing platform riser height to the loft floor
shall be not less than 16 inches (406 mm) and not greater than 18 inches (457
mm).
               e.   Handrails. Handrails shall be provided on not less than one
side of each flight with four or more risers.
               f.   Stairway guards. Guards at open sides of stairways,
landings and landing platforms shall comply with Section R312.1 of the Florida
Building Code.
               g.   Ladders. Ladders accessing lofts shall comply with the
above regulations for stairways and with the following:
                  i.   Size and capacity. Ladders accessing lofts shall have a
rung width of not less than 12 inches (305 mm), and ten-inch (254 mm) to 14-
inch (356 mm) spacing between rungs. Ladders shall be capable of supporting a
300-pound (136 kg) load on any rung. Rung spacing shall be uniform within
three-eighths inch (9.5 mm).
                  ii.   Incline. Ladders shall be installed at 70 to 80 degrees
from horizontal.
                  iii.   Alternating tread devices. Alternating tread devices
accessing lofts shall comply with Sections R311.7.11.1 and R311.7.11.2 of the
Florida Building Code. The clear width at and below the handrails shall be not
less than 20 inches (508 mm).
                  iv.   Ships ladders. Ships ladders accessing lofts shall
comply with Sections R311.7.12.1 and R311.7.12.2 of the Florida Building Code.
The clear width at and below handrails shall be not less than 20 inches (508
mm).
               h.   Loft guards. Loft guards shall be located along the open
side(s) of lofts. Loft guards shall be not less than 36 inches (914 mm) in
height or one-half of the clear height to the ceiling, whichever is less. Loft
guards shall comply with Section R312.1.3 and Table R301.5 of the Florida
Building Code for their components.
         (l)   Homes shall meet the requirements of Section R310 of the Florida
Building Code for emergency escape and rescue openings. Egress roof access
windows in lofts used as sleeping rooms shall be deemed to meet the
requirements of Section R310 where installed such that the bottom of the
opening is not more than 44 inches (1,118 mm) above the loft floor, provided
the egress roof access window complies with the minimum opening area
requirements of Section R310.2.1 of the Florida Building Code.
      (2)   Air conditioning requirements.
         (a)   Central single units and split system condensing units shall be
located beneath the home, where possible and practical, and shall exhaust to
the front or patio side as near to the front of the home, as possible.
         (b)   Central single units and split system installation of condensing
units shall be made with the unit placed at the front or on the patio side as
near to the front of the home as possible, if unable to conform to the
provisions of §
153.028(F)(2)(a) above.
         (c)   Window or wall air conditioning units are not allowed.
         (d)   Water cooled condensing units are not allowed.
         (e)   No air conditioning unit shall exceed the maximum noise level of
8.2 Bels, as rated by the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute
(A.R.I.).
         (f)   The make, model number, EER rating, noise level and proposed
location for all air conditioning units must be stated in the application for
installation.
         (g)   In Residential Mobile Home District IV (RMH-IV), the air
conditioning unit may be placed in the side yard area on the “back side” (non-
entry side), provided that it does not extend beyond the lot line, and it
otherwise complies with all of the other setback requirements in said district.
         (h)   All new/replacement air conditioning units shall be installed at
a minimum elevation of three and one-half feet NAVD 88.
      (3)   Anchored utility cabinet requirements.
         (a)   An anchored utility cabinet shall be permitted provided it does
not exceed three feet in depth, six feet in width and six feet in height, and
is placed a minimum of five feet from the rear corner of the home, seven feet
minimum from rear lot line on the patio side.
         (b)   An anchored utility cabinet, the size of which does not exceed
20 inches in depth, four feet in width and six feet in height, may be installed
on the patio side, parallel to the home, provided it does not extend closer
than one foot to the rear corner of the mobile home.
      (4)   Lot elevation (the addition of fill) in Districts III and IV for
the replacement of an existing mobile home to an elevated single family home.
In Districts III and IV, upon the completion of roadway and drainage
improvements to meet adopted levels of service, and the implementation of
adequate shoreline protection measures, then the following applies to lot
elevation or the addition of fill (not elevation of the unit itself) in
conjunction with the replacement of an existing mobile home to an elevated
single family home:
         (a)   If an existing mobile home is replaced with an elevated single
family home, the parking pad and any mechanical equipment supporting the unit
at the ground level, must be at or elevated to a minimum three and one-half
feet NAVD 88 at the time of the replacement if necessary. In conjunction with
the parking pad elevation, if necessary, the driveway shall also be elevated
and harmonized between the access road and the parking pad. If the driveway is
elevated in addition to the parking pad, then a culvert or drainage structure
shall be installed under the driveway. If it is not necessary to elevate the
driveway, then it may not act as an obstruction of drainage flow through side
ditches or swales from one property to adjacent properties.
         (b)   If an existing mobile home is replaced with an elevated single
family home, then the lot (not the unit itself) shall be elevated with the
addition of fill to a minimum of three and one-half feet NAVD 88 and a maximum
of five feet NAVD 88 when the earliest of the following timeframes occurs:
            1.   Within one year of the date of final inspection when the
adjacent lots (not the units themselves) on both sides are elevated;
            2.   Within three years from the issuance of the final certificate
of occupancy for the replacement of a mobile home unit to elevated single
family home; or
            3.   No later than December 31, 2040.
         (c)   A site plan shall be submitted by the property owner and
approved by the town including: 1) whether or not other service connections
will need to be upgraded to withstand the addition of fill on the property; and
2) demonstrating that the property elevation will not result in any increase in
offsite discharge by including onsite storage capacity or requiring
compensatory storage.
         (d)   When a lot is elevated with fill, the following design elements
shall be incorporated into the structure and/or lot design as necessary so that
post-development discharges are not increased based upon professionally
acceptable engineering principles:
            1.   Gutters shall be required directing stormwater runoff to
onsite retention areas including, but not limited to, anchored rain barrels or
cisterns, bioswales, rain gardens, bioretention flow-through planters or cells,
or rock swales;
            2.   Permeable pavement;
            3.   Retaining walls or berms; or
            4.   Other accepted onsite or offsite drainage retention techniques
that will prevent post development runoff to exceed pre-development runoff as
approved by the engineer of record.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 5-25-2023)
§ 153.029 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1).
   (A)   Location of district. The commercial or business use district of the
town shall consist of the Commercial (C-1) District which is so designated on
the official zoning map and is a portion of the block in the Park Plat bounded
by Cardinal Drive, Banyan Boulevard, West Bamboo Drive and Highway A1A; and, a
portion of the block bounded by Marina Drive, Banyan Boulevard, Cordova Avenue
and Highway A1A.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this district is to
provide suitable sites for the development of commercial and business
activities of a community-oriented nature such as general office, retail store
and service shops in a centralized location consistent with the adopted
Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the town.
   (C)   Existing uses permitted. In the Commercial (C-1) District, land,
buildings or premises may continue to be used by right only for one or more of
the following:
      (1)   Beauty shop and barber shop;
      (2)   Business and professional office;
      (3)   Clubs and social organizations;
      (4)   Drug store;
      (5)   Laundry and dry cleaning operation;
      (6)   Real estate sales office;
      (7)   Retail sales and services;
      (8)   Spas;
      (9)   Utility service facilities; and/or
      (10)   Vehicle parking.
   (D)   Uses prohibited. In Commercial District (C-l), the following uses are
specifically excluded:
      (1)   Retail convenience stores and mini-markets, typified by the 7-11,
Little General and Cumberland type stores;
      (2)   Fast food restaurants and snack shops, typified by MacDonald’s,
Burger King, Wendys and take-out sandwich shops;
      (3)   Bars, taverns and cocktail lounges;
      (4)   Gasoline filling stations and automotive service stations;
      (5)   Automotive service shops, including Quick Lube shops, tire sales
and repair shops and automobile washing facilities; and
      (6)   New and used automobile sales and service establishments.
   (E)   Site development standards. The land area comprising the Commercial
District (C-1) is fully developed. It is the purpose and intent of this
subchapter to permit and allow each building and structure within this district
to continue the activities, use and occupancy thereof as it lawfully existed in
this mobile home park prior to the enactment of this code.
   (F)   Structural changes, remodeling and new development. Any building in
the Commercial District (C-1) to which structural changes are proposed or the
exterior is to be remodeled, modified or re-constructed or a new development is
to be constructed shall require the issuance of a special exception by the town
prior to the issuance of a building permit for any work.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.030 PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC DISTRICT (PSP-1).
   (A)   Location of district. The civic use district of the town shall consist
of the Public and Semi-Public District (PSP-1) which is so designated on the
official zoning map and is a portion of the block in the park plat bounded by
Cordova Avenue, Banyan Boulevard, the north boundary line of the town and
Highway A1A; a portion of the block bounded by Marina Drive, Banyan Boulevard,
Cordova Avenue and Highway A1A; and, a portion of the block bounded by the
south boundary line of the town, Banyan Boulevard, West Bamboo Drive and
Highway A1A.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this district is to
provide suitable site for location of civic and community activities, including
recreational facilities, marinas, parks, library, club rooms, restrooms,
vehicle parking areas and community facilities for the use of the town
residents and permitted others. In addition, limited business uses are
permitted, such as administration offices, meeting rooms, governmental offices
for Zoning Board and Town Council, and offices for security personnel and town
employees.
   (C)   Uses permitted. In the Public and Semi-Public (PSF-1) District, land,
buildings or premises may be used by right only for one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Auditorium;
      (2)   Banks and financial institutions;
      (3)   Card and billiard room;
      (4)   Hobby shop, arts and crafts activities;
      (5)   Laundry and dry cleaning establishments;
      (6)   Maintenance shop;
      (7)   Marinas;
      (8)   Recreation building;
      (9)   Spas;
      (10)   Storage areas for boats, trailers and vehicles;
      (11)   Swimming pool;
      (12)   Utility service facilities; and
      (13)   Vehicle parking.
   (D)   Structural changes, remodeling and new development. The site
development standards for this district shall be the same as provided for the
Commercial (C-l) District except that a special exception shall not be required
as a prerequisite to structural changes, remodeling and new development.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.031 RECREATION DISTRICT (R-1).
   (A)   Location of district. The recreation use district of the town shall
consist of the Recreation (R-1) District which is so designated on the official
zoning map. The major portion of this zone is located on that part of the Park
Plat bounded on the south by the town boundary line, on the west by Old Ocean
Boulevard, on the north by the town boundary line, and on the east by the
Atlantic Ocean, where the beach clubhouse and cabanas are located. Additional
portions of this zone are the two open space areas lying between Marine Way on
the east and the waters of the Intracoastal Waterway on the west; the marina
property located between Dock Drive and Bay Drive, west of Banyan Boulevard;
the swimming pool site located at the corner of Marina Drive and Banyan
Boulevard; and the shuffleboard court and clubroom area located at the corner
of Ruthmary Avenue and North Ocean Boulevard.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this district is to
recognize certain selected areas of land as suitable for a low level of
recreational uses, provided such use can be accomplished while still conserving
the environment and natural features within the area, and to provide suitable
sites for location of a more intense level of outdoor and indoor recreational
activities. Portions of the Recreation (R-1) District have been developed for
the location of an ocean front club house, beach cabanas, beach front picnic
areas, swimming pool facilities, marinas, fishing sites and other active
outdoor recreational activities, including parking and accessory uses. The
remaining recreation zone area has been left in open space, which to a limited
extent offers the opportunity for natural habitats of desirable, non-endangered
species of wildlife, fish or flora. These open areas are also sites for
observing scenic beauty or vistas which offer passive recreational enjoyment.
It is the intent of this district that such existing open space areas shall be
left in their present natural state to the greatest extent possible, rather
than be developed as the location for intense recreational uses. The town will
limit any future development in this district to low density and low intensity
of use. Vehicular traffic shall be specifically prohibited in environmentally
sensitive areas and shall be restricted to a necessary minimum elsewhere.
   (C)   Uses permitted. In the Recreation (R-1) District, land, buildings or
premises may be used by right only for one or more of the following specified
uses:
      (1)   Existing buildings and structures may continue to be used for the
intended purpose of their design and construction including the beach
clubhouse, beach cabanas, spas, swimming pool facility, shuffleboard court,
docks, marinas, play ground, library, club room, hobby shops, restrooms, locker
rooms, bathing facilities, vehicle parking and accessory uses; and/or
      (2)   Open space areas shall be used in their natural state as passive
recreation areas, including vehicle parking and accessory uses, without further
enhancement or development in any substantial extent in conformity with the
purposes and intent expressed for this zoning district in division (C)(1)
above. Such use includes:
         (a)   Nature, foot and bicycle trails;
         (b)   Wildlife management activities performed in accordance with the
applicable methods, criteria and practices endorsed by the Florida Game and
Fish Commission, or similar recognized authority;
         (c)   Exploration and observation activities for cultural,
anthropological and historical purposes; and
         (d)   Such use of the area in its natural state, for recreational use,
fishing or sporting purposes or for the observation of the natural vegetation,
flora, fauna or wildlife present thereon, which can reasonably be accomplished
with minimum impact on the environment so as not to defeat the purposes and
intent of this district.
   (D)   Structural changes, remodeling and new development. Any building in
the Recreation District (R-1) to which structural changes are proposed or the
exterior is to be remodeled, modified or re-constructed or any new development
is to be constructed, shall require the issuance of a special exception by the
town prior to the issuance of a building permit for any work.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.032 PARKING AND LANDSCAPE DISTRICT (PL-1).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this zone is to provide parking
spaces for the residents, lessees and the visiting public and also to provide,
as the individual siting may allow, small areas for landscaping improvements
and beautification. These are the only uses permitted for this zoning district.
   (B)   Regulations and permits for on-street parking. There shall be no
parking or standing of motor vehicles at any time on any street, road or right-
of-way in the town, however named, except by permit. Parking permits shall be
available from the Town Manager or designee in accordance with the following
regulations, also depicted on the Town of Briny Breezes On-Street Parking Map
as adopted by resolution of the Town Council:
      (1)   On Briny Breezes Boulevard, no on-street parking is permitted.
However, parking along the north side of Briny Boulevard on the grassy swale
and paver covered area parallel to the north side of the roadway, between the
north edge of the pavement and the adjacent sidewalk, from North Ocean
Boulevard (A-1-A) on the west, to Old Ocean Boulevard on the east, shall be
allowed for the owners and guests of the adjoining and abutting mobile home
units. Each vehicle so parked must display the applicable valid and current
town issued permit at all times.
      (2)   On Old Ocean Boulevard, on-street parking is permitted only as
follows: upon notification that an event is scheduled at the beach clubhouse
that requires special parking privileges, the Town Manager or designee is
authorized to temporarily identify on-street parking spaces on the east side of
the boulevard only, as a zone where parking is allowed by special event permit
only. The Town Manager or designee may for good cause issue special event
parking permits in numbers equal to the number of parking spaces needed for the
event and available on the boulevard and may condition such permits as
necessary to insure the maximum public use of the street. Such permits shall be
revocable at any time by the Town Manager or designee. No person shall park a
vehicle in a marked special event parking zone or on-street parking space
without first obtaining a special event parking permit from the Town Manager or
designee, and prominently displaying such permit in the windshield of the
vehicle. Whenever any special event on-street parking permit is granted, no
person shall use such permit for any location or time other than as designated
on the permit. All such permits shall designate the specific location, date and
time for which the permit is valid. All special event parking permits shall
remain the property of the town and shall be surrendered upon demand to the
Town Manager or designee.
      (3)   On Cordova Avenue, on-street parking is permissible in marked
spaces along the south side of Cordova Avenue for the owners and guests of the
adjoining and abutting mobile home units. In addition, on-street parking is
permissible in marked spaces along the north side of Cordova Avenue for
residents and guests throughout the town. Finally, on-street parking is
permissible in the area known as the "Bull Pen" along the north side of Cordova
Avenue for RV parking. Each vehicle and RV so parked must display the
applicable valid and current town-issued permit at all times.
      (4)   On Ruthmary Avenue, South Ibis Drive, North Ibis Drive, South Heron
Drive and North Heron Drive, on-street parking is permissible for the owners
and guests of the mobile home units located adjacent to their respective drive
or avenue. Where marked spaces are provided (e.g. the north side of Ruthmary
Avenue), on-street parking is permissible in such spaces. Where marked spaces
are not provided (e.g. the south side of Ruthmary Avenue, and all of South Ibis
Drive, North Ibis Drive, South Heron Drive and North Heron Drive) on-street
parking is permissible parallel to the through lane(s). Each vehicle so parked
must display the applicable valid and current town-issued permit at all times.
      (5)   On Juniper Drive, Hibiscus Drive, Cedar Drive, Bamboo Drive,
Mallard Drive, Flamingo Drive, Lark Drive, Java Drive, Palm Drive, Bay Drive,
Eagle Drive, Cardinal Drive, Marine Way, Banyan Boulevard (except adjacent to
the marina canal dead end), North Ocean Boulevard, West Cordova Avenue, no on-
street parking is permitted at any time.
      (6)   On Dock Drive and Bay Drive, as well as the fish cleaning station,
on-street parking is permissible for marina tenants and guests. Where marked
spaces are provided, on-street parking is permissible in such spaces. Where
marked spaces are not provided, on-street parking is permissible parallel to
the through lane(s). Each vehicle so parked must display the applicable valid
and current town-issued permit at all times.
      (7)   On Banyan Boulevard adjacent to the marina canal dead end, and the
south side of Marina Drive, and designated spaces on the north side of Cordova
Drive, on-street parking is permissible in designated spaces by special lease
from the corporation only. Each vehicle so parked must display the applicable
valid and current permit at all times.
   (C)   Regulations and permits for off-street parking. Parking or standing of
motor vehicles in any driveway, or other designated off-street parking space in
the town, including the open area between Marina Drive and West Bamboo Drive
which is for special purposes and events designated by the corporation, and
also including the areas north of Flamingo Drive on the east side of Banyan
Boulevard under the ficus trees, shall generally be regulated by Briny Breezes,
Inc. Each vehicle so parked must display the applicable valid and current
permit at all times. However, the following regulations shall also apply and
shall be enforced in the same manner as on-street parking regulations:
      (1)   Off-street parking may not block adjacent sidewalks or vehicle
travel lanes.
      (2)   Commercial uses shall comply with the following off-street parking
requirements:
         (a)   For parking for office buildings, there shall be a minimum of
one off-street parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area,
excluding stairways and hallways.
         (b)   For parking for other commercial developments, there shall be a
minimum of five off-street parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross
leasable area.
         (c)   A plan for the parking facilities shall accompany each
application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy for office
building and other commercial developments. The completion of the improvements
for parking according to such a plan shall be requisite for issuing of the
permit or certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   RVs may be parked temporarily (up to a maximum of 24 hours and
excluding Sundays and town recognized holidays) between Quonset I and II, and
Quonset II and III, for the sole purpose of loading and unloading. Each vehicle
so parked must display the applicable valid and current permit at all times.
      (4)   Off-street parking is permissible north of Flamingo Drive on the
east side of Banyan Boulevard under the ficus trees. No person shall park a
vehicle in the area without first obtaining a parking permit from the Town
Manager or designee, and prominently displaying such permit in the windshield
of the vehicle at all times.
      (5)   Off-street parking for commercial, government and corporation
offices on North Ocean Boulevard does not require a permit; parking shall be in
the associated marked spaces.
      (6)   Residents may coordinate with Briny Breezes, Inc. to utilize posts
(one on each side of the driveway/parking area entrance, not to exceed four
feet in height) with connecting chain to close the off-street driveway/parking
area adjacent to their residence when not in use. The foregoing shall be
subject to requirements of Briny Breezes Inc., if any, including but not
limited to the resident assuming all cost and expense. The town shall have no
obligation or responsibility in this regard.
   (D)   Signs and enforcement. The town shall cause signs to be posted
throughout the town, sufficient in the opinion of the Town Marshal, or other
designated town official with traffic enforcement responsibilities, to place
all motorists on notice of these on and off-street parking regulations. The
town shall cause these on and off-street parking regulations to be enforced via
parking citations, so long as the corporation maintains with the town a current
agreement for municipal traffic control jurisdiction over the private streets
and road rights-of-way in the Town of Briny Breezes.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to reproduce, sell, give,
barter, rent, or lease, or cause to be sold, given, bartered, rented, or
leased, for any value or consideration, any parking permit. Upon the conviction
of a violation of this section, all permits issued to, or for the benefit of,
the residence for which the sold, given, bartered, rented or leased permit was
authorized, shall be void.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, receive as a gift,
barter, rent or otherwise acquire, whether for value or not, any parking
permit, except as provided for in this section.
      (3)   Penalties for parking violations. Any motor vehicle found in
violation of the parking restrictions imposed by this section shall be cited by
a traffic citation appropriate to the circumstances thereof issued by the
Police Department or the County Sheriffs Office, and, upon conviction, the
owner thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
      (4)   Penalties for other violations. Any person violating the other
substantive provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to
the penalties provided by §
10.99.
   (E)   Issuance of parking permits.
      (1)   Applications. The Town Manager or designee, which may include a
designated third-party approved by Town Council resolution, shall issue parking
permits to effectuate the parking regulations of this section. Applications
shall be submitted to the Town Manager or designee upon a form approved by the
town and provided by the town or designee for such purpose.
      (2)   Agreement for designated third-party. The Town Council shall have
the authority to enter into a written agreement with a third-party designee to
process applications and issue permits to effectuate the parking regulations of
this section. The written agreement with the third-party service provider shall
be approved by Town Council resolution.
      (3)   Third-parties. Permits properly issued by third-parties authorized
to act for the town by express written agreement with the town shall be
considered, for all intents and purposes, the same as if the town had issued
the permit to the applicant itself.
      (4)   Households without motor vehicles. Residents that do not possess
motor vehicles but who must depend upon regular assistance from visiting
relatives and friends who require parking accommodations upon their arrival,
are also eligible for on-street parking permits. Such applicants shall furnish
the names and addresses of their primary assisting visitors and identify the
motor vehicles which they regularly use. Their parking permit shall be
temporarily displayed on the vehicle of their visitor at all times that vehicle
is parked in the town.
      (5)   Number of permits per dwelling unit. Not more than one permit for
on-street parking shall be issued for each qualified dwelling unit to any
qualified applicant except as hereinafter provided. Applicants requesting more
than one permit for any dwelling unit may be granted one additional permit by
the Town Manager or designee, upon a showing that any unassigned parking spaces
remain after all other qualified applicants have been accommodated; that there
is more than one motor vehicle registered at that applicant’s dwelling unit;
and, that there is still insufficient parking available to that applicant.
      (6)   Permit fees. A fee is hereby imposed for each parking permit issued
pursuant to this section, which fee shall be set by resolution of the Town
Council and shall be paid by the applicant to the Town Manager or designee at
the time of application.
      (7)   Permit denial or revocation. No parking permit shall be issued to
any applicant having an outstanding parking violation or who has any unpaid
traffic fines assessed against them. Furthermore, a permit issued pursuant to
this section may be revoked by the Town Manager or designee in accordance with
procedures set by resolution of the Town Council. Such procedures shall at a
minimum provide for proper notice and due process.
      (8)   Duration of permits. Parking permits issued pursuant to this
section shall remain effective for a period of one calendar year, or fraction
thereof.
      (9)   Conditions of permits.  Each parking permit issued pursuant hereto
shall be subject to all the conditions and restrictions set forth in this
section and those of the parking areas or spaces for which it is issued,
including conditions or restrictions which may be altered or amended from time
to time. The issuance of such permit shall not be construed to be a permit for,
or approval of, the violation of any provisions of this code or any other law
or regulation.
   (F)   Official parking map. The official parking map for the Town of Briny
Breezes, as appended to the town's Code of Ordinances, as may be amended from
time to time in conformance with this section, and as kept on file in the
office of the Town Manager, is hereby adopted and incorporated into this code.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-99, passed 5-27-1999; Ord. 2-08, passed 9-
25-2008; Ord. 1-2010, passed 5-27-2010; Ord. 1-2014, passed 9-25-2014; Ord. 02-
2020, passed 5-28-2020)
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
§ 153.045 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General purpose. It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to
promote and safeguard the public health, safety, comfort and welfare and to
ensure that lands within the town are developed in an orderly progressive and
harmonious manner.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Establish minimum design standards for subdivisions and land
development;
      (2)   Encourage that land be developed with due regard to the
preservation and/or promotion of its natural beauty;
      (3)   Ensure that land development promotes the safe and unimpeded flow
of vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (4)   Ensure the development of adequate educational, recreational and
community service facilities;
      (5)   Ensure, through review of plans, on-site inspection and engineer
certification, that required improvements meet minimum town standards;
      (6)   Set forth basic criteria and procedures to ensure that these
regulations are enforced;
      (7)   Promote the efficient use of utilities and public facilities; and
      (8)   Ensure that land be developed with proper drainage facilities.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.046 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations as herein set forth shall apply to all subdivisions and land
development within the town, including the construction or development of
mobile home residential lots and/or parcels and all commercial subdivision or
development.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.047 DEFINITIONS (SUBDIVISIONS).
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Right-of-way providing a secondary means of access and service to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. Group of lots existing within well defined and fixed boundaries,
usually being an area surrounded by streets or other physical barriers.
   BOARD. Any board appointed by a municipality, county commission or state
agency, such as the planning and zoning board, area planning board or the
governing board of a drainage district.
   CUL-DE-SAC. Street terminated at the end by a vehicular turnaround.
   DEVELOPER. Person who applies for approval of a subdivision plat.
   EASEMENT. Any strip of land created by a subdivider for public or private
utilities, drainage, sanitation or other specified uses.
   GOVERNING BODY. Board of county commissioners or the legal governing body of
a county, municipality, town or village of the state.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Includes street pavements, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or drains, street names, signs,
landscaping, permanent reference monuments (P.R.M.s), permanent control points
(P.C.P.s), or any other improvement required by law.
   LAND SURVEYOR. Land surveyor registered under F.S. Ch 472 who is in good
standing with the Board of Land Surveyors.
   LOT. Includes tract or parcel and means the least fractional part of
subdivided lands having limited fixed boundaries.
   PLAT. Map or delineated representation of the subdivision of lands, being a
complete and exact representation of the subdivision, together with other
information in compliance with all applicable requirements.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Includes any public or private utility, such as, but not
limited to, storm drainage, sanitary sewers, electric power, water service, gas
service or telephone line, whether underground or overhead.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated, deeded, used or to be used for street, alley,
walkway, boulevard, drainage facility, access for ingress and egress, or other
purposes by the public or private parties.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords any means of access
to property. This definition shall include any accessway, such as a street,
road, lane, highway, avenue, boulevard, alley, parkway, viaduct, circle, court,
terrace, place or cul-de-sac and also includes all of the land lying between
the right-of-way lines as delineated on a plat showing such streets, whether
improved or unimproved, but shall not include those accessways such as
easements and rights-of-way intended solely for limited utility purposes, such
as electric power lines, gas lines, telephone lines, water lines, drainage and
sanitary sewers and easements of ingress and egress.
   SUBDIVISION. Platting of real property into three or more lots, parcels,
tracts, tiers, blocks, sites, units or any other division of land, and includes
establishment, of new streets and alleys, additions and resubdivisions and,
when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to
the lands or area subdivided.
   SURVEY DATA. All information shown on the face of a plat that would
delineate the physical boundaries of a subdivision and any parts thereof.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.048 REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATTING.
   (A)   General requirements. The plat for a subdivision or development shall
contain the requirements hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   Title certification. Every plat of a subdivision submitted to the
approving agency of the local governing body must be accompanied by a title
opinion of an attorney at law licensed in the state or a certification of an
abstractor or a title company showing that the record title to the land
described and shown on the plat is in the name of the person, persons,
corporation or entity executing the dedication, if any, as it is shown on the
plat and, if the plat does not contain a dedication, that the developer has
record title to the land. The title opinion or certification shall also show
all mortgages not satisfied or released of record not otherwise terminated by
law.
   (C)   Qualification of person making survey and plat certification. Every
subdivision of lands made within the provisions of this subchapter shall be
made under the responsible direction and supervision of a land surveyor who
shall certify on the plat that the plat is a true and correct representation of
the lands surveyed, that the survey was made under his or her responsible
direction and supervision, and that the survey data complies with all of the
requirements of this subchapter. The certification shall bear the signature,
registration number and the official seal of the surveyor.
   (D)   Dedication by developer. Every plat of a subdivision filed for record
must contain a dedication by the developer. The dedication shall be executed by
all developers having a record interest in the lands subdivided, in the same
manner in which deeds are required to be executed. All mortgagees having a
record interest in the lands subdivided shall execute, in the same manner in
which deeds are required to be executed, either the dedication contained on the
plat or a separate instrument joining in and ratifying the plat and all
dedications and reservations thereon.
   (E)   Approval by town. When a tract or parcel of land has been subdivided
and a plat thereof bearing the dedication executed by the developers and
mortgagees having a record interest in the lands subdivided and the approval of
the town has been secured and recorded in compliance with this section, all
streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way and public areas shown on such plat,
unless otherwise stated, shall be deemed to have been dedicated to the public
for the uses and purposes thereon stated; however, nothing herein shall be
construed as creating an obligation upon town to perform any act of
construction or maintenance within such dedicated areas except when the
obligation is voluntarily assumed by the town.
   (F)   Roads, streets and trafficways. No subdivision or development will be
approved which contains a structure or use which would interfere with the
existing cross-section of a roadway shown on the County Traffic Plan or shown
on any other appropriate plan maintained by the town. No subdivision or plat
shall be approved which requires that State Road A1A be widened.
   (G)   Technical requirements for plats. Every plat of a subdivision offered
for recording shall conform to the technical requirements set forth in F.S. Ch.
177.091, and otherwise be in proper form and content for recording in the
public records of the county.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.049 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Compliance with law. A subdivision shall be platted and subdivided,
and shall be developed in accordance with the requirements and regulations of
this subchapter. In addition, all subdivisions and land development shall
comply with the minimum requirements of F.S. Ch. 177.011 through 177.151, Part
1.
   (B)   Areas which may be developed. In no case shall any subdivision take
place which creates a parcel of ground which cannot be developed under the
zoning requirements or land development requirements of the town.
   (C)   Plat Submission to Town Council. Prior to any subdivision of lands
within the town as set forth above, a plat of subdivision shall be prepared.
Said plat shall be reviewed and approved by the Town Council and evidence of
its approvals placed thereon before a plat is recorded in the public records of
the county.
   (D)   Unsuitable lands. Unless adequate methods of correction are formulated
and approved in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, land which
is determined to be unsuitable, by the engineer retained by the town, for
subdivision or land development due to poor soil quality, flooding or drainage
or other features likely to be harmful to the health, safety and general
welfare of future residents, shall not be subdivided or developed.
   (E)   Exceptions to submission requirements. In the case of subdivision or
land development of a small tract of land not exceeding one acre in size, for
purposes of lots for residential mobile home use, upon petition to the Town
Council by the developer or owner, the Town Council may at its option waive all
or portions of this subchapter as the Town Council may desire.
   (F)   Submission of preliminary plat. Where land is to be subdivided or
developed, a preliminary plat, which shall mean the same as the preliminary
site plan of the development, shall be prepared by an architect or engineer,
licensed by the state, which shows the following:
      (1)   The location, size and topography of the site;
      (2)   Land ownership;
      (3)   Existing and proposed streets and easements;
      (4)   Location, size and use of existing and proposed building and
structures;
      (5)   Traffic circulation plan;
      (6)   Traffic impact statement;
      (7)   Landscaping plan;
      (8)   Lighting and signage;
      (9)   Proposals for disposing of sanitary waste and storm water and for
providing public water facilities prepared by a registered professional
engineer;
      (10)   Proposed density of land use for each development parcel within
the project; and
      (11)   The location, size of open space and recreation areas.
   (G)   Design criteria. For all new subdivisions, the applicant shall follow
the design criteria established pursuant to the county subdivision ordinance.
Changes, variations and alterations to this design criteria shall be allowed
provided that they are agreed to in writing by the Town Council and the
applicant, and such changes are consistent with this chapter.
   (H)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall review the application for the proposed plat, which is the same as the
site plan for the development, and make its recommendation to the Town Council.
   (I)   Preliminary approval by Town Council. The Town Council shall receive
the proposed plat with the recommendation of the Planning Board for its review.
Upon finding all conditions for platting having been met, the Town Council
shall grant preliminary approval of the plat and instruct the applicant to
prepare the final plat document in the form and content required for filing in
the official records of the county.
   (J)   Changes to preliminary plat. The developer’s surveyor may at any time,
after approval of the preliminary plat or development plan present the final
plat for review by the engineer retained by the town. The plat shall be
prepared by a registered surveyor and shall comply with F.S. Ch. 177, and
amendments thereto.
   (K)   Review and submission to Town Council. The engineer retained by the
town shall review the plat for compliance to these regulations and submit it to
the Town Council for approval. The town shall furnish the developer’s surveyor
written notice of the Town Council’s approval when the plat is found to comply.
If deficiencies are found in the plat, the engineer retained by the town shall
furnish through the Town Clerk a written statement of the deficiencies. The
Town Council, at its discretion, may refuse to process a plat of an additional
unit of a subdivision or land development in which previous units have not been
completed.
   (L)   Final plat recording requirements. Final plats for subdivisions in the
town shall not be recorded until the developer has installed the required
improvements or has guaranteed to the satisfaction of the town that such
improvements will be installed.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.050 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Purposes and intent. The developer shall provide such facilities as
may be needed to drain the subdivision or land development to positive outlets
that can be legally maintained in permanent use, or into a public system of
adequate capacity which discharges into such positive outlets, including all
rights-of-way, easements and necessary construction at no expense to the town.
Side ditches along public roads may not necessarily be considered as such
public drainage systems or positive outlets. Wherever technically feasible
within current design standard storm sewers and treatment facilities shall be
provided to control storm water quality by providing for on-site percolation
and/or detention or any other appropriate treatment facilities for storm water.
   (B)   General drainage specifications. Drainage piping of all kinds shall be
fitted with headwalls, endwalls, inlets or other appropriate terminating or
intermediate structures; the design of headwalls, endwalls, inlets, catch
basins, manholes, ditch paving, box culverts and minor drainage and related
structures in general shall broadly follow current State Department of
Transportation practices. Piping used within a storm sewer shall be 15 inches
in diameter or larger. Distances between terminating or intermediate structures
shall not exceed 400 feet without the construction of a maintenance inlet or
manhole.
   (C)   Requirements for a complete drainage system. A complete system shall
be provided for draining roads, streets, alleys and other areas in the
subdivision or land development, and for handling drainage run-off that enters
or crosses the subdivision or land development. The system shall be designed
according to accepted engineering principles for rainstorms of the maximum
intensity predicted for the county area at three-year intervals according to
current State Department of Transportation charts and data. The run-off
coefficients used shall be those which will be applicable to the areas involved
after complete development has occurred. The drainage systems shall be designed
for long life, low maintenance cost, and ease of maintenance by normal
maintenance methods.
   (D)   Swales, curbs and gutters. When there is sufficient width for road
rights-of-way, the development shall be designed so as to provide roadside
swales or curbs and gutters or both. Such drainage improvements shall be
located within the right-of-way and shall have slopes that parallel the
centerline road grade. Swales and small ditches of similar size and capacity
shall have slopes not flatter than 0.0025 foot per foot in the direction of the
flow. Ditch pavement or other adequate permanent protection against scour or
erosion shall be provided where necessary. Run-off in excess of the capacity of
swales and gutters shall be diverted therefrom and carried away in storm sewers
or in outfall ditches or by other means separate from the roads and streets.
Road grades shall be shown on the development plans by the direction and
percentage of fall and with the centerline lineal distance between the control
points. Minimum road grades for swaled and guttered sections shall be 0.0025
per foot.
   (E)   Drainage outfalls. Outfall ditches and other open channels shall be
designed so they will not overflow their banks; and if practicable, they shall
be designed for flow velocities that will not cause scour or erosion. Where
higher velocities must be used, ditch pavement or other adequate permanent
protection against scour or erosion shall be provided.
   (F)   Hydraulic gradient. The hydraulic gradient for storm sewer systems
shall be so designed that the down-stream end of the gradient is at the high-
water elevation for the design storm. Storm sewers are to be designed flowing
full with the hydraulic gradient at the grate of the critical inlet.
   (G)   Drainage design report. The design data of the drainage system shall
be submitted along with the construction plans in a report form prepared by the
developer’s engineer indicating the method of control of storm water and
groundwater, including the method of drainage, existing water elevations,
recurring high water elevations, proposed design water elevations, drainage
structures, canals, ditches and any other pertinent information pertaining to
the system. The drainage system shall be designed using acceptable engineering
principles with consideration being given to the protection of all future
buildings from a one-in-100-year storm. In addition, the systems shall provide
for the necessary maintenance of groundwater levels to prevent over drainage
for the intended land use.
   (H)   Accommodation of contributory drainage. The system shall provide for
the drainage of lots, streets, roads and other public areas including surface
waters which drain into or through the property. The design for drainage of the
subdivision or land development must be adequate to provide for surface water
drainage of adjacent contributory areas. Where additional ditches and canals
are required to accommodate contributory surface waters, right-of-way shall be
provided for future needs; however, the developer may be permitted to excavate
or open sufficient capacity to provide for existing drainage needs whenever the
developed or undeveloped status of adjacent areas so warrants, as determined by
the engineer retained by the town for such purpose.
   (I)   Drain pipe requirements. Pipe shall be sloped and structures channeled
to develop sufficient scouring to minimize sediment. The pipe used in the
system shall be reinforced concrete or metal meeting ASTM, ASSHTO and current
State Department of Transportation specifications. Concrete pipe shall have
gasket joints, meeting the requirements of ASSHTO. Metal pipe will not be used
beneath the pavement or parallel within the right-of-way. Drainage pipe shall
be fitted with headwalls, endwalls, inlets and other appropriate terminating
and intermediate structures. structure design shall meet or exceed town and
county standards.
   (J)   Rainfall run-off management. Rainfall run-off, surface waters and
groundwaters shall be managed in subdivisions and land developments to minimize
degradation of water quality, nutrients, turbidity, debris and other harmful
substances, and maximize percolation and detention to promote the reuse of this
resource. Storm water treatment facilities shall be designed, sized and
performance evaluated to accommodate as a minimum requirement a three-year
storm. Run-off from roads, parking lots, roofs and other impervious surfaces
should be directed over areas where percolation into the soil can be
accomplished prior to introduction into any storm sewer or other receiving
facilities. Pervious areas shall be covered with vegetation.
   (K)   Run-off flow distance. The maximum recommended run-off flow distance
over impervious surfaces before being diverted to percolation areas should be
50 feet, excluding building roofs, recreational areas, roadway gutters and
storm sewers.
   (L)   Percolation areas for run-off. Run-off which must be carried directly
into the closed storm sewer system without previously crossing percolation
areas should be discharged to percolation areas prior to conveyance to on-site
receiving waters in order to promote detention, disposition of silt and other
particulates and the removal of nutrients or other undesirable constituents in
the water prior to discharge from the subdivision or land development. Water
storage and detention capabilities of on-site bodies of water shall be governed
by the discharge limitations of the area. Temporary ponding is allowable in
areas where specifically designed.
   (M)   Minimum drainage accommodation. The minimum capacity of the town’s
storm drainage facilities shall be designed and maintained so as to accommodate
the run off caused by one inch of rainfall in a period of one hour.
   (N)   Drainage easements. In order to accommodate adequate drainage
facilities, canals or ditches of sufficient width and capacity, according to
the engineer’s certified design standards, shall be acceptable to the town. For
purposes of maintenance and control, such canals or ditches shall be placed
under the authority of the drainage district having jurisdiction, or a property
owners’ association or corporation formed for such purpose, or the town.
Drainage easements shall be provided to facilitate surface waters from
contributory areas. When a subdivision or land development is traversed by or
develops canals, watercourses, lakes, streams, drainage ways or channels, there
shall be provided a drainage easement of right-of-way conforming substantially
with the lines of such watercourse and of such further width or construction or
both, as will be adequate for the purpose.
   (P)   Alternate drainage treatment. Alternate treatment methods or
facilities which in the opinion of the engineer retained by the town for such
purpose, are equal or superior to the above requirements may be approved.
Applications for such approvals shall be accompanied by written data,
calculations and analyses which show, by accepted engineering principles, that
the alternate treatment methods or facilities are equal or superior to those
specified.
   (Q)   Variance request. In the event that the engineer retained by the town
for the purpose of designing a storm water management system or facility
concludes that the drainage criteria and design requirements of the South
Florida Water Management District, or those provided within this subchapter,
can not be met by reason of the location of presently existing improvements,
vested property rights, insufficiencies in the dimensions of area, length,
width or elevation of the land area under consideration for drainage
improvements, or for other reasons based upon sound engineering principles, the
town may submit an application to the South Florida Water Management District
for a variance to the aforesaid requirements for drainage, or apply for a
project permit approval for an alternate designed system, which, if issued,
shall govern and control the town’s proposed drainage improvement project.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
CONSISTENCY AND CONCURRENCY
§ 153.065 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to describe the
requirements and procedures for determination of the consistency of proposed
development projects with the Comprehensive Plan of the town, including the
necessity for meeting the concurrency requirements of the Plan.
   (B)   Definition of concurrency. CONCURRENCY is hereby defined as a
condition where specified facilities and services have or will have the
necessary capacity to meet the adopted level of service standard for the town
at the time of impact of the development project.
   (C)   Definition of consistency. CONSISTENCY is hereby defined as the state
of conformity and agreement of the provisions of the land development
regulations of the town with the provisions of the town’s Comprehensive Plan,
so that the development of the lands within the town’s jurisdiction will be
accomplished in harmony with the goals and objectives of the town’s Plan and be
fully compatible therewith.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007)
§ 153.066 DETERMINATION OF CONSISTENCY.
   (A)   Relationship to Land Development Code. Land development in the town
shall be deemed to be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan if the land
development projects that are approved and constructed within the town,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, are in harmony with and compatible
to the goals, objectives and policies of the town’s Plan when completed.
   (B)   Agency responsible for determinations. The Land Development Regulation
Commission of the town is hereby designated as the agency responsible for the
review of the town’s land development regulations, and amendments thereto,
which implement the adopted Comprehensive Plan, for the purpose of determining
the consistency thereof with the town’s adopted Comprehensive Plan. This
Commission shall issue a report of its findings and determinations in respect
thereto to the Town Council of the town. The duties and responsibilities of
this Commission shall be performed by the Local Planning Agency, which will
fulfill the performance of all necessary functions of this Commission as
required by the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development
Regulation Act.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007)
§ 153.067 SYSTEM FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF CONCURRENCY.
   (A)   Generally. The following method of ensuring concurrency shall be known
as the system for the Management of Concurrency (SYMCON). SYMCON is based upon
the Town Comprehensive Plan, especially the capital improvements element and
the adopted level of service standards. The system is designed to ensure that
the issuance of a final development order will not result in a degrading of the
adopted levels of service for specified public facilities and services.
   (B)   Requirements to protect the levels of service.
      (1)   All applications for development orders shall demonstrate that the
proposed development does not degrade adopted levels of service in the town.
      (2)   An application for a development permit shall demonstrate that the
proposed development does not degrade adopted levels of service if there exists
no development order under which the permit is sought, and no development order
is required prior to the issuance of the permit, e.g. a residence on a parcel
of unplatted land.
      (3)   The latest point at which concurrency is determined is the final
development order. If no development is required, the latest point to determine
concurrency is the first development permit on a site.
   (C)   Exception during construction process. Notwithstanding the regulations
set forth in division (B) above, the prescribed levels of service may be
degraded during the actual construction of new facilities, if upon completion
of the new facilities the prescribed levels of service will be met.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.068 DETERMINATION OF AVAILABLE CAPACITY.
   (A)   Procedure and method. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
available capacity of a facility shall be determined by subtracting the demand
for service created by the new improvement from the total available capacity
for that service, according to the procedure and method hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Determination of available capacity. The total available capacity for
a given type of service shall be determined by adding together the following:
      (1)   The total capacity of existing facilities operating at the required
level of service; and
      (2)   The total capacity of new facilities, if any, that will become
available on or before the date of occupancy of the development.
   (C)   Service capacity available from new facility. The capacity of a new
facility may be counted only if one or more of the following is shown:
      (1)   Construction of the new facility is under way at the time of
issuance of the final development order;
      (2)   The new facility is the subject of a binding executed contract for
the construction of the facility or provision of service at the time of
issuance of the final development order;
      (3)   The new facility is guaranteed in an enforceable development
agreement, which includes, but is not limited to, development agreements
pursuant to F.S. Ch. 163.3220, or an agreement or development order pursuant to
F.S. Ch. 380;
      (4)   Such new facility shall be consistent with the capital improvement
element of the town’s Comprehensive Plan; and
      (5)   The development agreement must guarantee that the necessary
facility or provisions of services will be in place when the impacts of the
development occur.
   (D)   Service demand required by new facility. The service demand required
by the new facility is to be subtracted from the total available service
capacity. This service demand shall be determined by adding together the
following:
      (1)   The demand for the needed service or facility created by existing
development as documented in the town’s Comprehensive Plan; and
      (2)   The demand for the needed service or facility created by the
anticipated completion of other approved developments, redevelopment or other
development activity.
   (E)   Determination when available capacity not shown. Where available
capacity cannot be shown, the following methods may be used to maintain adopted
level of service:
      (1)   The project owner or developer may provide the necessary
improvements to maintain level of service. In such case, the application shall
include appropriate plans for improvements, documentation that such
improvements are designed to provide the capacity necessary to achieve or
maintain the adopted level of service, and recordable instruments guaranteeing
the construction consistent with the calculations of capacity made pursuant to
the methods and procedures of this subchapter; and
      (2)   The proposed project may be altered so that the projected level of
service is not less than the adopted level of service.
   (F)   Burden of showing compliance on developer. The burden of showing
compliance with the level of service requirements shall be upon the developer.
In order to qualify for approval, development applications shall provide
sufficient information to show compliance with these standards.
   (G)   Initial determination of concurrency. The initial determination of
concurrency occurs during the review of the preliminary development plan, and
shall include compliance with the level of service standards adopted by the
town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.069 ANNUAL SYMCON REPORT.
   (A)   Contents of annual SYMCON report. The town shall prepare an annual
SYMCON report that includes a summary of development activity, building permit
activity, preliminary and final development orders and an evaluation.
   (B)   Summary of development activity. The summary of actual development
activity shall include a summary of certificates of occupancy, and indicate the
quantity of development represented by type and square footage.
   (C)   Summary of building permit activity. A summary of building permit
activity, shall include the following information:
      (1)   Building permits those that expired without commencing
construction;
      (2)   Building permits that are active at the time of the report;
      (3)   The quantity of development represented by the outstanding building
permits;
      (4)   Building permits that result from final development orders issued
prior to the adoption of this code; and
      (5)   Building permits that result from final development orders issued
pursuant to the requirements of this code.
   (D)   Summary of preliminary development orders. The summary of preliminary
development orders issued shall include the following information:
      (1)   Such orders that expired without subsequent final development
orders;
      (2)   Such orders that are valid at the time of the report; and
      (3)   The phases and quantity of development represented by the
outstanding preliminary development orders.
   (E)   Summary of final development orders. The summary of final development
orders issued shall include the following information:
      (1)   Such orders that expired without subsequent building permits;
      (2)   Such orders that were completed during the reporting period;
      (3)   Such orders that are valid at the time of the report but do have
associated building permits or construction activity; and
      (4)   The phases and quantity of development represented by the
outstanding final development orders.
   (F)   Evaluation of facilities and services. An evaluation of such facility
and service shall include the following information:
      (1)   The capacity available for each at the beginning of the reporting
period and the end of the reporting period;
      (2)   The portion of the available capacity held for valid preliminary
and final development orders;
      (3)   A comparison between the actual capacity with the calculated
capacity, resulting from approved preliminary development orders and final
development orders;
      (4)   A comparison between the actual capacity and levels of service with
the adopted levels of service from the town’s Comprehensive Plan; and
      (5)   A forecast of the capacity for each based upon the most recently
updated schedule of capital improvements in the town’s capital improvements
element.
   (G)   Use of annual report. The SYMCON annual report shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the capacity and levels of service of public facilities for
the purpose of issuing development orders during the 12 months following
completion of the annual report.
   (H)   Waiver of annual report. If no reportable development activity has
occurred within the town during the 12-month period, the requirement to prepare
and file an annual SYMCON report shall be waived.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.070 ADOPTED LEVELS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Potable water. Development activity shall not be approved unless there
is sufficient available capacity to sustain the following levels of service for
potable water as established in the potable water sub-element of the town’s
Comprehensive Plan:
 
Minimum design flow 100 gpd/per person
Pressure            45 psi to user
Storage capacity    Provided by Boynton Beach
 
   (B)   Wastewater. Development activities shall not be approved unless there
is sufficient available capacity to sustain the following levels of service for
wastewater treatment as established by the sanitary sewer sub-element of the
town’s Comprehensive Plan:
 
Type of Use                Level of Service
                           Average Flow       Peak Flow
Residential and commercial 100 gpd/per person 125 gpd/per person
 
   (C)   Transportation system.
      (1)   Level of service. Development activities shall not be approved
unless there is sufficient available capacity to sustain the following levels
of service for transportation systems as established in the transportation
circulation element of the town’s Comprehensive Plan:
 
Type of Facility    Peak Hour Level of Service
All other roads     B
Major collectors    B
Minor arterials     B
Minor collectors    B
Principle arterials None
 
      (2)   Street widening. Coordination of the future land use plan shall be
achieved without allowing any widening of any collector or arterial streets to
take place.
      (3)   Determination of project impact. The impact of proposed development
activity on available capacity shall be determined as follows.
         (a)   The area of impact of the development (a traffic shed) shall be
determined. The traffic shed shall be that area where the primary impact of
traffic to and from the site occurs. If the town has designated sectors of its
jurisdiction for determining development impacts and planning capital
improvements, such sectors or planning areas may be used.
         (b)   The projected level of service for roads within the traffic shed
shall be calculated based upon estimated trips to be generated by the project.
Where the development will have access to more than one road, the calculations
shall show the split in generated traffic and state the assumptions used in the
assignment of traffic to each facility.
   (D)   Drainage system. Development activities shall not be approved unless
there is sufficient available capacity to sustain the following levels of
service for the drainage system as established in the drainage sub-element of
the town’s Comprehensive Plan:
 
Type of Use Level Of Service
All present and future storm water management systems shall comply with the
design standards and conform to the performance standards contained in §§
153.020 through
153.032 or the requirements of the South Florida Water Management District.
 
   (E)   Solid waste. Development activities shall not be approved unless there
is sufficient available capacity to sustain the following levels of service for
the solid waste as established in the solid waste sub-element of the town’s
Comprehensive Plan:
 
Type of Use Level Of Service
Commercial  2.5 pounds per capita per day
Residential 4.0 pounds per capita per day
 
   (F)   Recreation. Since the total town area consists of approximately 43
acres, the recreational needs of the town are addressed on a community basis
only. Development activities shall not be approved unless there is sufficient
available capacity to sustain the following levels of service for the
recreational facilities as established in the recreation and open space element
of the town’s Comprehensive Plan:
 
Type of
Park       Level of Service
Facility
Community  2.5 acres/1,000 population
park
Other park These facilities are provided by the county and the adjoining municipalities
facilities and are available to meet the recreation needs of the town’s residents.
 
   (G)   Mass transit.
      (1)   The town does not have the resources to provide a mass transit
system. The county has established a county-wide mass transit system, known as
COTRAN, which presently provides service to the town.
      (2)   The town will continue to coordinate its needs with the county to
maintain the present level of the service to the town residents. In addition,
the town will continue to seek that level of mass transit service from the
county which is necessary and desirable to meet its community needs.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
§ 153.085 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter is to address
the preservation and conservation of desirable natural resources of the
community. In its application to this chapter, this subchapter will establish
those areas of a development site that must be protected from the harmful
effects of development. Accordingly, a developer should apply the provisions of
this subchapter to a proposed development site before any other development
design work is done.
   (B)   Application of subchapter. This subchapter shall apply to new
subdivisions and the general development activity within the town, including
development at the oceanfront beach area. This subchapter, however, is not
intended to apply to a single mobile home lot if that is the total extent of
the development proposal, since that is an indivisible site. The proper
application of the provisions of this subchapter will be to divide a proposed
development site into areas that may be developed and areas that must generally
must be left free of development activity. The proposed development should then
be designed to fit within the areas that may be properly developed.
   (C)   Scope of subchapter. The scope of this subchapter shall include tree
protection, preservation of shrubs and vegetation, preservation of mangrove
areas, preservation of beach dune vegetation, preservation of environmentally
sensitive lands, wellfield protection and the protection and conservation of
potable water supplies.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a building site exclusive of required yard
area on which a structure or building improvements may be erected, and
including the actual building, structure, driveway, roadway, parking lot,
lakes, parks, golf courses, pool, decking, sidewalks, drainage facilities and
other construction as shown on the site plan.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the Town of Briny Breezes or his
or her designated representative.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any proposed material change in the use or character of land,
including, but not limited to, the placement of any structure or site
improvement on land. When appropriate to the context, DEVELOPMENT may refer to
the act of issuing any building permit.
   DISTRICT. The South Florida Water Management District.
   DRIP LINE. A vertical line run through the outermost portion of the crown of
a tree extending to the ground, that the same shall be not less than a ten-foot
diameter circle which is drawn from the center of the trunk of a tree.
   DUNE GROWTH or BEACH DUNE VEGETATION. Any natural vegetative cover which
binds the sand at the beaches and along the shore from erosion, and shall
include any of the grass commonly known as sea oats or Uniola Paniculata and
Coccolobis Uvifera, commonly known as sea grapes.
   ECOSYSTEM. A characteristic assemblage of plant and animal life within a
specific physical environment, and all interactions among species and between
species and their environment.
   GRUBBING. Removal of vegetation from land by means of digging, raking,
dragging or otherwise disturbing the roots of vegetation and the soil in which
roots are located, but shall not include beach cleaning activities.
   MACHINERY, HEAVY. Trucks, mechanical land clearing, earth moving or earth
working equipment with a gross weight in excess of 5,000 pounds. For the
purposes of this section, all machinery that utilizes steel tracks for traction
shall be considered HEAVY MACHINERY.
   MANGROVE TREES. Any plant belonging to any of the following species of
mangroves: Rhizophora Mangle, the red mangrove; Laguncularia Racemosa, the
white mangrove and Avicennia Nitida, the black mangrove.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REMOVAL. The physical removal of vegetation; removal of trees also includes
any intentional or negligent act which will cause a tree to decline and die
within a period of three years, including, but not limited to, such damage
inflicted upon the tree itself; damage to the root system of a tree by the
operation of heavy machinery; damage from the change of the natural grade above
the root system of a tree or around the trunk of a tree; and damages from
injury or from fire inflicted on trees which results in or permits infections
or pest infestations.
   SHRUB VEGETATION. Underbrush and bush type growth consisting of small trees
and woody shrubs with multiple or single stems measuring less than four inches
in diameter at a height of four and one-half feet above the ground.
   SITE. The parcel of land for which a tree removal permit is sought.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN, BONA FIDE. A valid building permit; an approved site
development plan; an approved subdivision master plan; or a valid land
development permit.
   TREE. Any self-supporting woody plant of a species which normally grows to a
minimum overall height of 20 feet and a spread of 15 feet in the crown, or has
a trunk measuring four or more inches in  diameter at a height of four and one-
half feet above the ground. All mangrove trees shall be included hereunder,
which are one foot or more, in height.
   TREE SURVEY. A drawing certified by a land surveyor, registered in the
state; as to the location and size of all trees as defined by this chapter.
   VEGETATION, NATIVE. Any plant species with a geographic distribution
indigenous to all or part of the state. Plant species which have been
introduced by humans are not NATIVE VEGETATION.
   VEGETATION, PROTECTED. All vegetation other than:
      (1)   Prohibited plant species; or
      (2)   Vegetation excluded from protection under the exemptions provisions
of this subchapter.
   VIABLE. A tree, which in the judgment of the enforcement agency, is capable
of sustaining its own life processes, unaided by humans, for a reasonable
period of time.
   WATER RESOURCE. Any and all water on or beneath the surface of the ground,
including natural or artificial water courses, lakes, ponds or diffused surface
water, and water percolating, standing or flowing beneath the surface of the
ground.
   WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION. When sufficient water is not available to meet
present or anticipated needs of persons using the water resource, or when
conditions are such as to require temporary reduction in total water usage
within a particular area to protect the water resource from serious harm. A
water shortage usually occurs due to drought.
   WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY. A situation when the powers which can be exercised
under Part II of Chapter 40E-21, Florida Administrative Code, are not
sufficient to protect the public health, safety or welfare, or the health of
animals, fish or aquatic life, or a public water supply, or commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational or other reasonable uses.
   YARD AREA. The front, side and rear yard areas as established and required
under the comprehensive zoning code and the zoning district requirements
applicable thereto.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. The Zoning Official of the Town of Briny Breezes or his or
her designated representative.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.087 GENERAL PROTECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards for tree and vegetation protection. The following parts of
this subchapter shall provide, and may be cited as, the town tree and
vegetation protection provisions.
   (B)   General intent applicable for protection of all trees and vegetative
growth. It is the intent of the town to provide for the general promotion of
the health, safety, welfare and well-being of the community by establishing
rules and regulations governing the protection and removal of trees, shrubs,
vegetation, mangroves, beach dune cover and environmentally sensitive lands
within the limits of the town.
   (C)   General purposes for all tree and vegetative protection. The purposes
of this subchapter include the following:
      (1)   To encourage the proliferation of trees and vegetation within the
town as well as their replacement, in recognition of their importance and their
meaningful contribution to a healthy, beautiful and safer community
attributable to their carbon dioxide absorption, oxygen production, dust
filtration, wind and noise reduction, soil erosion prevention, beach erosion
protection, wildlife habitat, surface drainage improvement, beautification and
aesthetic enhancement of improved and vacant lands;
      (2)   To encourage beneficial land and forest management practices by
minimizing the unnecessary removal of valuable existing vegetation in advance
of approved land development;
      (3)   To prevent such destructive land development practices as
speculative grubbing and clearcutting of lots when no bona fide site
development plan or no comparable vegetation management plan has been prepared
for a site; and
      (4)   To implement the Town Comprehensive Land Use Plan, including the
conservation and preservation elements thereof, which recognize the
significance and importance of valuable existing vegetation, trees, forest
ecosystems, wildlife habitat and other natural resources located within the
town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.088 TREE AND VEGETATION REMOVAL.
   (A)   Property owners shall not illegally or unlawfully destroy any
protected habitat ecosystem or endangered species on property within the town
during construction or while carrying out shrub clearing or tree removal
activity.
   (B)   Trees and vegetation may be removed or altered under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When necessary to remove trees or vegetation which create unsafe
vision clearance or pose a safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
threaten to cause disruption of public services or utilities;
      (2)   When necessary to remove trees or vegetation which pose a safety
hazard to buildings, structures or improvements;
      (3)   When necessary to observe good forestry practices and
environmentally sound land development techniques according to the standards of
tree protection developed by the Division of Forestry of the Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services of the state;
      (4)   When necessary in order to construct proposed improvements as a
result of the need for access around a proposed structure for construction
equipment; the need for access to a building site for construction equipment;
for essential grade changes; for surface water drainage and utility
installations; and for the location of the proposed buildings, structures,
parking areas and other improvements as defined as the buildable area, so as to
avoid unreasonable economic hardship;
      (5)   When necessary for compliance with other town codes such as
building, zoning, subdivision regulation, health provisions and other
ordinances; and/or
      (6)   When necessary to remove diseased or dead trees or vegetation.
   (C)   The extent of tree and vegetation removal or destruction shall be
limited to that which is reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose for
which the removal project has been undertaken. This may include changes to the
extent of the removal and/or replanting of removed trees or vegetation.
   (D)   Property owners shall make reasonable efforts to relocate or replace
trees and vegetation removed for any project. Replacement shall not be
necessary where the tree or vegetation was removed because of disease or
interference with existing roadways, driveways, sidewalks and street areas,
septic tank drain fields, sewer lines or development of commercial property
which does not leave room for replacement. Property owners shall cause
replanting to be completed within a reasonable time after completion of the
project for which the removal operation has been undertaken.
   (E)   Property owners shall make reasonable efforts to avoid needless waste
or purposeless destruction of trees and vegetation as such frequently provides
habitat for desirable birds and animals, stabilizes soil, provides aesthetic
benefits and acts as a landscape buffer or transition area between adjoining
uses.
   (F)   Property owners shall make reasonable efforts to avoid and/or reduce
damage or destruction to trees during construction. This shall include, but is
not limited to, reasonable efforts to avoid the placement of material,
machinery or temporary soil deposits within six feet of any tree having a four-
inch or greater trunk diameter measured four and one-half feet above grade
level, or the erection of suitable protective barriers around all such trees to
be preserved. Property owners shall also make reasonable efforts to avoid
attachments or wires to any of said trees, other than protective guy wires.
   (G)   There shall be no restriction on the removal of any species of tree or
vegetation designated as invasive or otherwise prohibited by the town by
resolution or by any law or regulation of the county, state or federal
government.
   (H)   There shall be no restriction on the removal on the following species
of trees:
      (1)   Schinus Terebinthinfolins (Brazilian pepper tree, Florida holly);
      (2)   Metopium Toxiferum (poison wood);
      (3)   Melaleuca Lencadendron (Melaleuca);
      (4)   Hibiscus Teleaceum (flowering hibiscus or mahoe tree);
      (5)   Casuarina Equisetifolia or Casuarina Cuninghamiana (Australian
pines); and
      (6)   Any species of ficus tree.
   (I)   The Town Council is hereby authorized, but not required, to designate
all activities involving the alteration or removal of trees and vegetation
within the town that shall require a permit and to set the permit fees for such
activity, and to do so through Town Council resolution. All fees shall be non-
refundable and shall be due and payable and collected by the town at the time
of application.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 4-2017, passed 1-25-2018)
§ 153.089 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL VEGETATIVE COVER ON BEACH DUNES.
   The natural vegetative cover on beach dunes shall be preserved in an
undisturbed state of growth as a fragile ecosystem. Such beach dune vegetation,
including grasses, sedges or grass like plants of the Cyperaceae family, sea
grapes, sea oats, mangroves, vines, shrubs and trees shall remain in its
natural state and not be removed, altered or damaged, except in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter. Elevated walkways are required for beach
access at oceanfront development in order to protect beach dune vegetation. The
storage of boats, sailboats or other articles on existing beach dune vegetation
is prohibited and shall be considered a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.090 PRESERVATION OF MANGROVE AREAS.
   Because mangrove areas are the ecological base of the biological food chain
for many important species, provide a habitat and shelter for birds and other
organisms and possess considerable aesthetic value, land development shall be
permitted only in a manner consistent with maximum possible conservation of
mangrove wetlands. Tree permits for mangrove wetlands will require the
applicant to adhere to the permitting process and regulation of the Department
of Environmental Regulation.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.091 ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE LANDS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section that
natural vegetative growth be preserved. Every effort shall be put forth on all
undeveloped property to retain each particular area of natural tree and
vegetative cover that is determined by the Zoning Official to be a fragile
ecosystem, unique, valuable or nearly extinct in our area unless it would
unduly restrict the use of the property or create a condition of undue hardship
on the owner. Natural or native vegetation shall also be preserved on developed
property where possible. The use of natural foliage on the site for replacement
landscape materials and adherence to the use of natural foliage in accordance
with the provisions of the Briny Breezes Landscape Ordinance shall be
encouraged and be incorporated into the landscaping scheme in recognition of
lower maintenance requirements and the conservative use of water for irrigation
of such vegetation.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Requirements for environmentally sensitive lands. In addition to
meeting the following requirements for protection of environmentally sensitive
lands, development plans shall comply with applicable federal, state and water
management district regulations relating to environmentally sensitive lands. In
all cases the strictness of the applicable standards shall apply.
      (2)   Conservation element incorporated by reference. The conservation
element of the Town Comprehensive Plan as from time to time amended is hereby
incorporated by reference into this chapter.
      (3)   Compliance when subdividing land. The building sites created in a
proposed subdivision plat must be suitable for constructing a structure thereon
which is in conformity with the standards of these regulations for the
protection of environmentally sensitive lands regulations.
   (C)   Environmentally sensitive lands ordinance. The town hereby adopts by
reference the County Environmentally Sensitive Lands Ordinance No. 90-47,
adopted November 20, 1990, by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.092 WELLFIELD PROTECTION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts by reference the Wellfield Protection Ordinance of
the county as enacted by the Board of County Commissioners for the county.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.093 WATER CONSERVATION.
   As and for a water conservation ordinance, the town hereby adopts by
reference the South Florida Water Management District Model Water Shortage
Ordinance, promulgated by the District on November 21, 1989, for adoption by
all municipalities within the county, to implement the enforcement of the
District’s Water Shortage Plan.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section to
protect the water resources of the town from the harmful effects of over
utilization during periods of water shortage, to conserve potable water
supplies, and to efficiently allocate available water supplies to the greatest
need, thereby assisting the South Florida Water Management District (SFWMD) in
the implementation of its Water Shortage Plan.
   (B)   Model water shortage definitions. For the purpose of interpreting and
enforcing this section, the terms and words defined and listed in the
definition section of this subchapter shall apply.
   (C)   Application of section. The provisions of this section shall apply to
all persons using the water resource within the town when subject to the “water
shortage” or “water shortage emergency”, as determined by the district, whether
from public or privately owned water utility systems, private wells, or private
connections with surface water bodies. This section shall not apply to the use
of treated effluent or saltwater.
   (D)   Amendments to Water Shortage Plan. Chapter 40E-21, Florida
Administrative Code, as same may be amended from time to time, is incorporated
herein by reference as a part of this chapter.
   (E)   Declaration of water shortage; water shortage emergency. The
declaration of water shortage or water shortage emergency within all or any
part of the town by the governing board or the Executive Director of the
district shall invoke the provisions of this section. Upon such declaration all
water use restrictions or other measures adopted by the district applicable, to
the town shall be subject to enforcement action provided herein. Any violation
of the provisions of Chapter 40E-21, Florida Administrative Code, or any order
issued pursuant thereto, shall be a violation hereof.
   (F)   Town jurisdiction over water shortages. In the event of a facility
failure or circumstance outside the immediate jurisdiction of the South Florida
Water Management District which would necessitate curtailment of water
production, distribution or consumption, the Mayor of the town or his or her
designee may declare the existence of a water shortage condition or emergency
which shall activate the provisions hereof.
   (G)   Enforcement of water restrictions. Every law enforcement officer
having jurisdiction in the town shall, in connection with all other duties
imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of these water restrictions.
   (H)   Standard penalties. Any person convicted of the violation of any
provision of these water restrictions shall be subject to the penalties as
provided by law.
   (I)   Separate violations and sanctions. Each day in violation of this
section shall constitute a separate offense. In the initial stages of a water
shortage or water shortage emergency, law enforcement officials may provide
violators with no more than one written warning. In addition to the criminal
sanctions contained herein, the town may take any other appropriate legal
action, including, but not limited to, emergency injunctive action, to enforce
the provisions hereof.
   (J)   Water users to accept provision of this section. No water service
shall be furnished to any person by a public or private utility unless such
person agrees to accept all the provisions of these water restrictions. The
acceptance of water service shall be in itself the acceptance of the provisions
hereof.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.094 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official or Zoning
Official regarding the interpretation or application of this subchapter may
have such decision reviewed on a summary basis by the Board of Adjustment of
the town, pursuant to the procedure for same so made and provided. Such appeal
shall be scheduled for hearing at the next regular Town Council meeting,
provided that notice of the proposed appeal is given to the Town Clerk at least
ten days prior to such meeting.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
DEVELOPMENT DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.105 NEW DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The formulation of new design standards for the town will require
engineering input which incorporates the modern trends of providing greater
amenities for the residents of a mobile home community. At the same timer the
design must recognize the present space limitations of the town in overall area
and the present patterns of vested use and occupancy of the approximate 550
existing mobile home spaces within the park. Although implementation has
already begun, this is a long range program which will require several years to
complete.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.106 PRESENT STATUS OF DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   At the present time, through the adoption of the other subchapters
constituting this chapter, the present design and development standards have
been updated and revitalized to the extent currently possible. Essentially,
these are the same standards which have been used to create the town as it now
exists.
   (B)   By following the same pattern of development until new efficient and
desirable design standards can be created, the community’s ability to
accommodate the present and future housing needs of the residents of the town
will continue.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
BUILDING CODES
§ 153.120 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the Building and Mobile Home
Code of the town.
   (B)   Purposes. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum
standards, provisions and requirements to ensure safe and suitable design,
methods of construction and uses of buildings and/or structures (including
mobile home structures) hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered,
repaired, moved, converted to other uses or demolished. The provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed to supplement any and all laws of the state relating
to building codes or mobile home structure codes.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.121 DEFINITIONS (BUILDINGS AND MOBILE HOMES).
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These
definitions shall be supplemented by the definitions contained in §§
153.020 through
153.032, and also by the definitions contained in the building codes and mobile
home structure codes adopted hereunder. All of the foregoing definitions shall
be applicable to this subchapter.
   ADDED ROOM. A structure that adds living area to a building or to a mobile
home or trailer and which may or may not be constructed on a separate chassis
from that of the mobile home or trailer, but which shall be connected to the
building, mobile home or trailer.
   AWNING. An accessory structure to a building or to a mobile home or trailer
consisting of a patio roof or covering open on three sides.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. A person or designee who is licensed and competent to
administer the Florida Building Code in accordance with F.S. Ch. 553, and who
is retained by the town to perform permitting, plan review and inspections
pursuant to the Florida Building Code. The Building Official or designee may
also serve as the town's Mobile Home Inspector if so qualified. See §
153.123 below.
   MOBILE HOME INSPECTOR. A person or designee who is competent in the area of
mobile home installation and renovation and who is retained and reports to the
Building Official to perform onsite inspections of mobile homes including but
not limited to structural adequacy, and interior plumbing, mechanical, and
electrical systems. The Mobile Home Inspector may be the same person as the
Building Official or the Building Official's designee. See also §
153.123 below.
   MOBILE HOME SET-UP. The placing, blocking and anchoring of a mobile home, as
well as the removal of an existing mobile home, should there be one on the
site.
   PATIO. A flat concrete or wood floor not over seven and one-half inches
above the ground with no railing.
   PORCH. A concrete or wood floor higher than seven and one-half inches above
the ground and generally with a railing around it.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING NEED. A need for temporary housing within the town created
by a hurricane or other disaster-related event that has damaged or destroyed a
substantial number of the permanent places of residence within the town causing
the displacement of the occupants thereof who need safe, sanitary and adequate
housing to continue their residency within the town until their homes can be
repaired, rebuilt or replaced.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING NEED DECLARATION. A declaration by the Town Council that
an emergency exists producing a serious threat to the public, health, safety
and general welfare due to the damage or destruction of the town from a
hurricane or other disaster related event that has displaced a substantial
number of residents from their homes and has created an emergency need for
temporary housing units to provide them with safe, sanitary and adequate
housing for their continued shelter until their homes can be repaired, rebuilt
or replaced, and that also authorizes the use of temporary housing units for
such purpose. The Town Council shall enact a declaration for the need for
temporary housing units whenever required to protect the public against a
serious threat to its health, safety and general welfare.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING UNIT. Including any unit that may be supplied for such
purpose by a governmental agency, FEMA or any other bona fide disaster relief
agency, is hereby defined as any self-contained trailer, travel trailer or
motorized recreational vehicle, except a pop-out or a tent, that is designed
and constructed for temporary or continuous use for human habitation, provided
that it also meets all temporary housing requirements of the town’s Building
Code.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. Same as TRAILER or MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT
as defined in §
153.020.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 2-08, passed 9-25-2008; Ord. 01-2020, passed
5-28-2020)
§ 153.122 TEMPORARY HOUSING UNITS.
   (A)   Temporary housing units. Upon the adoption of a temporary housing need
declaration by the Town Council finding that an emergency exists due to the
damage or destruction of the town from a hurricane or other disaster related
event that has displaced a substantial number of residents from their homes and
has created an emergency need for temporary housing units to provide them with
safe, sanitary and adequate housing for their continued shelter until their
homes can be repaired, rebuilt or replaced, temporary housing units shall be
and become designated as a permitted use allowable in each of the designated
zoning districts of the town for such purpose.
   (B)   Duration for use of a temporary housing unit. Unless otherwise
extended or shortened by further action of the Town Council, the authorization
and allowance for a temporary housing unit to constitute a permitted use within
all designated zoning districts within the town shall cease and determine and
such use shall not be permitted or allowed to continue in any of the town’s
designated zoning districts any longer than 18 months from the date of
authorization therefor by the Town Council. There shall be no vested rights or
grandfathered rights accorded to a temporary housing unit that would allow its
continued use, occupancy and location within the town after the aforesaid
expiration date. As a supplementary provision, but not as an exception to the
foregoing exclusionary mandate, a temporary housing unit on which the work to
remodel rebuild or renovate it has, been successfully completed so that at the
expiration date the unit meets all requirements of all of this chapter, which
are then currently applicable for its use, occupancy and location as a
permanent mobile home, including the use requirements for the zoning district
in which located, the unit may remain.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-99, passed 5-27-1999; Ord. 2-08, passed 9-
25-2008; Ord. 1-2010, passed 5-27-2010; Ord. 1-2014, passed 9-25-2014)
§ 153.123 BUILDING OFFICIAL; MOBILE HOME INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment of Building Official. The Town Council shall appoint the
Town Building Official by town resolution duly adopted for said purpose,
specifying therein, or by contract between the town and the service provider in
reference thereto, the name and address of the appointee, the commencement and
duration of said appointment, the terms and provisions governing the rendition
of services to the town, and the rates, fees and charges for compensation for
such services to be rendered pursuant thereto. The appointee designated as the
service provider for Building Official services may be a natural person, a
corporation, any commonly used form of business entity, or any combination
thereof. A service provider that maintains its own business organization may
utilize its qualified employees, acting under its direct supervision and
control, to assist in providing such services to the town. The Building
Official may be the same person as the Mobile Home Inspector.
   (B)   Duties of the Building Official.
      (1)   The Building Official shall administer and enforce the provisions
of this subchapter and other related provisions of this code.
      (2)   The duties of the Building Official shall include receiving
applications for building permits, assisting applicants in the procedures for
so applying, reviewing building and construction plans for all disciplines of
construction, inspecting any building, electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing,
or structural systems for which an application has been received for a permit
to enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or install any building in the town,
including mobile home exteriors, or change the occupancy thereof, authorizing
the issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy, and performing,
directing and supervising all other administrative duties of the office of the
town’s Building Official related thereto. In the absence of a specific
appointment to the office by town resolution, the Building Official shall also
serve, ex officio, as the town’s Zoning Official.
      (3)   The Building Official shall be responsible for interpretation of
the applicable building codes, inspecting the premises and work done under the
permits issued, and shall either approve or disapprove the work so done.
      (4)   The Building Official will be responsible for any building
inspectors or other subordinate employees that may be required from time to
time.
   (C)   Appointment of Mobile Home Inspector. The Building Official shall
designate a Mobile Home Inspector who shall be duly qualified to perform onsite
inspections of mobile homes including but not limited to structural adequacy,
and interior plumbing, mechanical, and electrical systems. The Mobile Home
Inspector may be the same person as the Building Official or the Building
Official's designee.
   (D)   Duties of the Mobile Home Inspector.
      (1)   The Mobile Home Inspector shall generally be responsible for all
matters involving interior work on mobile homes, which is not subject to the
Florida Building Code, but which is subject to the requirements of the then
current edition of the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards,
promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to the
Manufactured Housing Improvement Act, and shall also administer and enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and other related provisions of this code
applicable to such matters.
      (2)   The duties of the Mobile Home Inspector shall include receiving
applications for permits, assisting applicants in the procedures for so
applying, reviewing plans for all disciplines of construction, inspecting any
electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, or structural systems for which an
application has been received for a permit to perform work in mobile home
interiors, authorizing the issuance of permits and certificates of occupancy or
completion, and performing, directing and supervising all other administrative
duties of the office of the town's Mobile Home Inspector related thereto.
      (3)   The Mobile Home Inspector shall be responsible for interpretation
of the codes applicable to mobile home interior work, inspecting the work done
under the permits issued, and shall either approve or disapprove the work so
done.
      (4)   The Mobile Home Inspector will be responsible for any subordinate
inspectors or employees that may be required from time to time.
   (E)   Appeal of decisions by aggrieved persons. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Building Official or the Mobile Home Inspector may have such
decision reviewed by the Board of Adjustment of the town, pursuant to the
procedure for same so made and provided. Such appeal shall be scheduled for
hearing at the next regular Town Council meeting, provided that notice of the
proposed appeal is given to the Town Clerk at least ten days prior to such
meeting.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 4-03, passed 11-26-2003; Ord. 01-2020,
passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.124 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. No construction, enlargement, alteration,
installation or removal of any buildings, mobile homes, patios, awnings, screen
rooms, blocking and anchoring devices, buildings or like structures or
structural repairs or hookups of, or modifications to existing electrical or
plumbing equipment shall be begun within the jurisdiction of the town, until
the applicable building or mobile home permit for such project has first been
obtained, if a permit is required. When determining whether or not a building
permit is required, refer to the Florida Building Code, or the Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, promulgated by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Improvement
Act, or the FLHSMV's Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Guidelines'
Policy Section as applicable, or consult directly with the town Building
Official or the Mobile Home Inspector. See also §
153.125, Standards, below.
   (B)   Approval of plan prerequisite to issuance. No building or mobile home
permit shall be issued under this subchapter except when plans sufficient to
show intended compliance with this section shall have been submitted and
approved by the Building Official or Mobile Home Inspector, as applicable.
   (C)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy upon compliance. A certificate of
occupancy shall be issued by the Building Official or the Mobile Home
Inspector, as applicable, and is required in advance of occupancy or use of any
lot, building, mobile home or other structure for which a building or mobile
home permit has been issued and the project completed in compliance with this
subchapter.
   (D)   Fees. The town shall charge a fee for the issuance of building or
mobile home permits and other related activity. The Town Council shall, by
resolution, set the amount of all building or mobile home permit fees. The Town
Council shall adopt the schedule of fees that shall apply for the issuance of
building or mobile home permits and other related activity by resolution, which
may be amended from time to time. The resolution shall state the fees payable
for each type of activity for instances where only one field inspection is
required and when multiple field inspections or extra services are required by
the town Building Official or the Mobile Home Inspector, as applicable. The fee
schedules adopted by the town shall provide for situations when a building or
mobile home inspection service is performed or a building or mobile home permit
is issued for any activity that is not specifically addressed in the town’s fee
schedule. All fees shall be non-refundable and shall be due and payable and
collected by the town prior to issuance of a permit. Whenever during the course
of work, a re-inspection is required for a permitted project, further work on
the project shall be suspended until the town receives payment of the re-
inspection fee which shall be done prior to the re-inspection being performed.
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   The building or mobile home interior permit fine for any owner or
their authorized agent who begins construction within the town prior to
obtaining the applicable building or mobile home interior permit or permits
shall be set by resolution of the Town Council.
      (2)   Any person who commences any work on a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system or other system governed by the
Florida Building Code or Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards,
promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the
Manufactured Housing Improvement Act, the Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and
Remodeling Code (F.A.C. § 15-C-2.0081) and the Florida Department of Highways
Safety and Motor Vehicles Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling
Guidelines, as appropriate, prior to obtaining the necessary permit(s) from the
town Building Official or Mobile Home Inspector, shall be subject to a penalty
fee in the amount set by resolution of the Town Council. Once the required
permits are issued, subsequent inspection fees will be charged at the standard
rate.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 4-03, passed 11-26-2003; Ord. 2-2009, passed
12-17-2009; Ord. 1-2012, passed 3-22-2012; Res. 2013-8, passed 9-26-2013; Res.
2015-4, passed 6-25-2015; Ord. 4-2017, passed 1-25-2018; Res. 2018-4, passed 2-
22-2018; Res. 2018-09, passed 5-24-2018; Res. 2018-17, passed - -; Ord. 01-
2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.125 STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to maintain the highest standards for
the building codes of the town. In the event of a conflict in the standards of
the several codes hereby adopted, the more stringent provisions shall prevail.
   (A)   Adoption of Florida Building Code. The town hereby adopts by reference
the current edition of the Florida Building Code as established and amended
from time to time by F.S. Ch. 553, as the building code of the town, and
incorporates the codes into the town’s Land Development Code, as though fully
set out herein. The Florida Building Code shall be applied and enforced by the
Building Official for all work requiring a building permit in the town,
including both interior and exterior work in all buildings. A copy of the
current edition of the Florida Building Code shall be filed in the office of
the Clerk of the town and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours established for the office of the Town Clerk.
   (1)   Adoption of current wind speed maps. The town hereby adopts by
reference the exhibits entitled the current wind speed maps for use with the
current edition of the Florida Building Code as established and amended from
time to time by F.S. Ch. 553 as the ultimate design wind speeds for risk
categories I, II and III for commercial and residential buildings and other
structures as part of the building code of the town, and incorporates the wind
speed maps into the town’s Land Development Code as though fully set out
herein. The town shall make all necessary adaptations and refinements to the
wind speed maps required to adopt a local determination of wind speed lines to
the town’s boundaries. A copy of the wind speed maps shall be filed in the
office of the Clerk of the town and shall be available for public inspection
during the regular business hours established for the office of the Town Clerk.
   (2)   Adoption of Chapter One, Administration. The town hereby adopts by
reference the current edition of Chapter One, entitled “Administration”, of the
Florida Building Code as established and amended from time to time by F.S. Ch.
553 and adopted by the State Building Commission, as part of the building code
of the town, and incorporates Chapter One, Administration, into the town’s Land
Development Code as though fully set out herein. A copy of Chapter One,
Administration, shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the town, and
shall be available for public inspection during the regular business hours
established for the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Adoption of Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards and
Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling Guidelines. The town hereby
adopts by reference the current edition of the Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards promulgated by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, pursuant to the Manufactured Housing Improvement Act as required
by F.S. § 320.823, for all mobile home construction and interior work, and
incorporates the codes into the town's Land Development Code, as though fully
set out herein. In addition, the town hereby adopts by reference the current
edition of the FLHSMV's Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and Remodeling
Guidelines' Policy Section. These codes and standards shall be applied and
enforced by the Mobile Home Inspector for all work on mobile homes which is not
subject to the Florida Building Code, including interior work in all mobile
homes. A copy of the current edition of the Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards and the FLHSMV's Mobile/Manufactured Home Repair and
Remodeling Guidelines' Policy Section shall be filed in the office of the Clerk
of the town and shall be available for public inspection during regular
business hours established for the office of the Town Clerk. The following
repair and remodeling guidelines shall apply to mobile homes:
      (1)   Level 1 - ordinary repair and remodel. Ordinary repairs are
nonstructural repairs. These are types of construction and repair that may not
require permitting or other oversight.
      (2)   Level 2 - major repair or remodel that substantially impairs
structural integrity or safety.
         (a)   A major repair or remodel of a mobile home will require an
engineer's plan or blueprint to show that it is a deviation from the original
home. Work is considered a deviation from the original mobile home if: (1) the
materials being used are heavier than the original materials; (2) the repair or
remodel changes the original home design; (3) interior walls are moved or
modified; or (4) the repair or remodel involves major electrical and plumbing
work. If a permit is required, the repair or remodel shall be approved if the
repair or remodel complies with the engineer's plan or blueprint. No additional
requirements shall be imposed on the repair or remodel.
         (b)   A major repair or remodel must be performed by qualified or
licensed persons. To be designated as a person qualified to alter or modify a
mobile home or recreational vehicle, a person must comply with local licensing
or competency requirements in skills relevant to performing alterations or
modifications on mobile homes or recreational vehicles.
      (3)   Level 3 - changes that disqualify the structure as a mobile home.
Certain conditions will arise that may disqualify a mobile/manufactured home as
being the home described on the title. Changes to the home as well as damage
from storms can render a mobile/manufactured home unfit and a danger to
residents.
   (C)   Adoption of State Fire Prevention and Life Safety Codes. The town
hereby adopts by reference the current edition of the State Fire Prevention
Code and the current edition of the State Life Safety Code, as established and
amended from time to time by the state statutes and adopted by the State
Department of Financial Services and as mandated to be enforced by the State
Department of Financial Services. The town incorporates the current edition of
the State Fire Prevention Code and the current edition of the State Life Safety
Code into the town’s Land Development Code as though fully set out herein. A
copy of the current edition of the State Fire Prevention Code and a copy of the
current edition of the State Life Safety Code shall be filed in the office of
the Clerk of the town and shall be available for public inspection during the
regular business hours established for the office of the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Blocking, anchor and tie-down standards for mobile homes. The
provisions of F.S. § 320.8325, which requires the use of anchors and tie-downs
for mobile homes, and all rules promulgated by the Department of Highway Safety
and Motor Vehicles which established minimum blocking, anchoring and tie-down
standards for mobile homes, with permitted exceptions, are hereby adopted by
reference. The statute, rules and standards therein provided shall be in full
force and effect in the town as if fully set forth herein.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Building Official and the Mobile Home Inspector of
the town are hereby charged with the enforcement responsibilities of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Temporary housing.
      (1)   Authorization required. Upon authorization by the Town Council,
temporary housing units, as defined, shall be eligible for installation and
occupancy within the town.
      (2)   Requirements for temporary housing units. Temporary housing units
must meet each of the following Building Code requirements before they are
eligible for installation and occupancy within the town:
         (a)   A building permit is required for each temporary housing unit;
         (b)   The temporary housing unit must be in good, sound mechanical
condition, fully serviceable, and safe and sanitary for its intended purpose
when installed, and it must be maintained in like manner and condition
throughout the period of its use; and
         (c)   The temporary housing unit cannot be a tent, or have any feature
or apparatus using tenting material that can be used to create expanded
interior or exterior space, regardless of whether such feature or apparatus is
put into use or not.
      (3)   Duration for use of temporary housing units. Unless otherwise
extended or shortened by further act of the Town Council, all temporary housing
units must be removed from the town on or before 18 months from the date of
authorization therefor by the Town Council. As a supplementary provision, but
not as an exception to the foregoing exclusionary mandate, a temporary housing
unit on which the work to remodel, rebuild or renovate it has been successfully
completed so that at the expiration date the unit meets all requirements of all
of the town’s land development regulations which are then currently applicable
for its use, occupancy and location as a permanent mobile home, including the
building code requirements for permanent mobile homes, the unit may remain.
   (G)   Continuing violations. Each day of a continuing violation, and each
separate activity requiring a permit for which none has been obtained, shall
constitute a separate violation hereof.
   (H)   Section supplemental. The provisions of this subchapter are
supplemental, in additional to, and not in derogation of all other laws and
ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 4-03, passed 11-26-2003; Ord. 2-08, passed
9-25-2008; Ord. 1-2012, passed 3-22-2012; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.126 WIND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
comply with the standards for windstorm safety for mobile homes which have been
established by state and federal authorities.
   (B)   Adoption of federal and state wind safety standards. The Federal
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards for Windstorm Safety, and the
Uniform Standards Code ANSI Book A-1191, are hereby adopted by reference by the
town and are incorporated into its Land Development Code as though fully set
out herein. In the event of a conflict in the requirements of these two
standards, and the standards of the Florida Building Code, the more stringent
provisions shall apply.
   (C)   Compliance with federal and state wind safety standards. Mobile homes
constructed and located within the town shall conform to the substantive
provisions of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards, or to
the Uniform Standards Code ANSI Book A-1191, or the standards of the Florida
Building Code, whichever is more stringent, in compliance with the provisions
of F.S. Ch. 161.55.
   (D)   Designation of Category D exposure for the entire town. The entire
corporate limits of the town is hereby designated as lying within and subject
to the Category D exposure for Wind Zone III Areas, and all buildings located
within the town shall be designed and constructed according to the applicable
wind safety requirements.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 4-27-1995; Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020)
§ 153.127 HOURS OF WORK.
   Any work performed pursuant to the requirements of this chapter shall only
occur on days and at times as set by resolution of the Town Council, which
shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Manager.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 5-28-2020; Res. 2020-07, passed 9-24-2020)
SIGNS; REGULATIONS
§ 153.140 INTENT, SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Intent. The regulations and requirements as set forth in this
subchapter are intended to preserve the character of the town by controlling
the size, location and use of signs within the town. It is further intended to
protect property values and to create a more attractive, economic, and business
friendly climate through the reinforcement and encouragement of graphic
excellence and to reduce conflicts between signs. It is the goal of the town to
promote the town's interest in aesthetics, to reduce urban clutter, to
eliminate nuisance forms of advertising and to promote traffic safety by the
avoidance of distractions to motorists by objectionable signage.
   (B)   Substitution of copy. It is not the intent of this subchapter to
regulate or control the copy, content, or viewpoint of signs. Nor is it the
intent of this subchapter to afford greater protection to commercial speech
than to noncommercial speech. Any sign, display or device allowed under this
subchapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy, any otherwise lawful
noncommercial message that complies with all other requirements of this
subchapter. The noncommercial message may occupy the entire sign area or any
portion thereof and may substitute for or be combined with the commercial
message. The sign message may be chanced from commercial to noncommercial, or
from one noncommercial message to another, as frequently as desired by the
sign's owner, provided that the sign is not prohibited, and the sign continues
to comply with all requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the number, size,
location, and character of all signs which may be permitted under the terms of
this subchapter. No signs shall be permitted in the town except in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   This subchapter does not regulate the following:
         (a)   Government signs on government property, including but not
limited to town signs on easements or property, including public or private
easements, owned or controlled by the town, the county, or the State of
Florida.
         (b)   Wayfinding, directional, hazard, life safety, traffic control
device, construction control, and similar signs authorized, required or
installed by a government agency on private property.
         (c)   Notices required to be posted by law or ordinance on private
property.
   (D)   Regulations strictly enforced. It shall be unlawful for any persons to
post, display, change, or erect a sign or sign structure that requires a permit
without first having obtained a permit therefor in accordance with this
subchapter. Signs not in conformance with this subchapter shall be deemed in
violation of the town's Code of Ordinances and it shall be mandatory to obtain
a permit, if required, comply with the town's codes, or remove the sign
immediately. All signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter are strictly
prohibited.
   (E)   Severability. If any part, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase,
clause, term, or word of this subchapter is declared unconstitutional by the
final and valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
declaration of unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any other
part, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.141 DEFINITIONS FOR SIGNS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-FRAME SIGN. A sign which is designed with two sign faces constructed in a
manner representing a triangular formation such as “A”.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which, has any visible moving parts, flashing
lights, visible mechanical movement of any description, or other apparent
visible movement achieved by any means.
   BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign on which copy is limited to the name
and address of a building or institution.
   BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. An on-site sign which serves to identify only
the name, address and lawful use of individual businesses and sets forth no
other advertisement.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech that proposes a commercial transaction, identifies
a person or entity with whom a commercial transaction is offered, or identifies
a place or location at which a commercial transaction is offered.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign which identifies the future occupant,
purpose for which the building is proposed, and the names, addresses and
telephone numbers of those individuals or businesses directly participating in
construction on the property on which the sign is located.
   CONVENIENCE SIGN. A sign which conveys information, such as “no parking”,
“entrance”, “exit”, “restrooms”, “open”, “closed”, “business hours” and the
like, but does not contain brands, trade or business identification and is
designed to be viewed on-site or adjacent to the site by pedestrians and/or
motorists.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An on-site sign designed to guide or direct pedestrian
and/or vehicular traffic and which is non-advertising in nature.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign for which an artificial source of light is used in
order to make the sign’s message readable, including internally and externally
lighted signs and reflectorized, glowing or radiating signs.
   NEON SIGN. A sign with tubing that is internally illuminated by neon or
other electrically charged gas.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech that does not propose a commercial transaction.
   ON-SITE ADVERTISING DISPLAY. Any structure, housing, sign, device, figure,
statuary, painting, display, message placard or other contrivance, or any part
thereof which has been designed, constructed, created, intended or engineered
to have a useful life of 15 years or more, and is intended or used to
advertise, or to provide data or information in the nature of advertising, for
any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To designate, identify or indicate the name of the business of the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which the advertising display is
located; or
      (2)   To advertise the business conducted, services available or
rendered, or the goods produced, sold or available for sale upon the property
where the advertising display has been lawfully erected.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign that, when installed, is intended for permanent use.
Where it is not otherwise specified by this subchapter, any sign with an
intended use in excess of one year from the date of installation shall be
deemed a PERMANENT SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign which is capable of being carried or readily moved
from one location to another and which is not permanent in nature. Such signs
include, but are not limited to, A-frame signs, sandwich board signs, signs on
wheels or signs which lean onto a stationary object, building or structure.
   SAFETY SIGNS. A sign which warns of a dangerous condition in or about the
area posted or states an operational limitation in effect for such area, such
as “no wake”, “slow zone”, “hazardous area” and the like.
   SIGN. An object or device which is designed, intended, used or located so as
to be visible by the public from outdoors for the purpose of advertising the
property, establishment or enterprise, including goods and services, upon which
the sign is located, or to convey a non-commercial message. This definition
shall include all parts, portions, frame, background, structure, support and
anchorage thereof.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter which
encloses the extreme limits of the advertising message, announcement, display,
logo, picture or any figure of a similar nature, together with any frame,
background area of sign, structural trim or other material, color or condition
which forms an integral part of the display excluding the necessary supports or
uprights on which such sign is placed.
   SIGN COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, designs, logos or other
symbolic representation incorporated into a sign.
   SIGNS, ELECTRIC. The terms “electric sign” and “illuminated sign” shall
apply to any sign with electric wiring and lighting therein or used in
conjunction with the sign, including the use of neon tubing.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any edifice or framework which supports or is capable of
supporting a sign.
   SNIPE SIGN. A sign which is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued or
otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes or fences, or to other objects with
the message appearing thereon not applicable to the present use of the premises
or structures upon which the sign is located.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not a permanent sign and is intended to be
displayed for a limited period of time, typically less than one year.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any device used to regulate traffic flow and
described and identified in the Manual or Uniform Traffic Control Devices
approved by the Federal Highway Administration as the national standard and as
may be revised from time to time.
   VEHICLE SIGN. Any sign placed, maintained, displayed or carried on a truck,
automobile, trailer or other vehicle for the purpose of on-site advertising.
This does not include signs affixed to vehicles for identification purposes as
required by licensing regulations of governmental entities.
   WALL SIGN. A single-faced sign attached to and parallel with the building
facade.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign which is attached or painted, either permanently or
temporarily, on the interior or exterior of a window or which is placed within
12 inches of the face of such window and is intended to be viewed from the
outside.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.142 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Provided the application complies with this subchapter and other applicable
codes and regulations, the Building Official shall issue a building permit
which will allow the construction, erection and location for each permanent
sign applied for. The Building Official shall retain a copy of such permit and
a copy of the complete drawings of said sign for his or her records. A permit
is not required for placement of a temporary sign.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.143 CONTENTS OF SIGN PERMIT APPLICATION FOR PERMANENT SIGNS.
   The application for sign permits for permanent signs shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   Type of sign or high voltage tube lighting authorized by said permit;
   (B)   The legal description of the property upon which the sign is to be
located, the name of the owner or lessee of such property, and evidence of the
legal interest or ownership by the applicant in such property;
   (C)   The location upon the property where the sign is to be permitted;
   (D)   The name of the person, firm, corporation, or association erecting the
sign;
   (E)   The amount of the fee paid for such permit; and
   (F)   The date of permit issuance.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.144 COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE; SIGN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of the preceding section, all
permanent freestanding signs in excess of 24 square feet shall be designed,
signed, and certified by a registered state engineer, who shall submit
sufficient calculations to enable the Building Official to determine whether
the sign complies with the Florida Building Code.
   (B)   All permanent signs, including their supports, braces, guys and
anchors, electrical parts and lighting fixtures, and all painted and display
areas, shall be maintained in accordance with the Florida Building Code, the
electrical codes adopted by the town, and this subchapter. All permanent signs
shall be kept free of rust, broken parts, mildew, damage, peeling or faded
paint, or any other deficiency that must be corrected to ensure a like new
appearance at all times. The vegetation around the base of all permanent signs
for a distance of ten feet shall be neatly trimmed and free of unsightly weeds,
and no rubbish or debris shall be permitted under or near the sign.
   (C)   Temporary sign maintenance is regulated in § 153.147 below.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.145 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Prohibited types of signs. The following types of signs shall be
prohibited throughout the town:
      (1)   Flashing, moving or fluttering signs, feather banners, and signs
which emit smoke, visible vapors or particles, sound, or odor;
      (2)   Signs producing glare;
      (3)   Snipe signs; and
      (4)   Signs of such a design or character that they may be mistaken for a
traffic control device.
   (B)   Prohibited locations for signs. Signs are prohibited in the following
locations:
      (1)   Signs so located with respect to a street or roadway that they
interfere with or compete for attention with a traffic control device. This
shall include any sign visible from the public right-of-way which uses an arrow
device or the word “STOP”;
      (2)   Any freestanding or projecting sign located along the right-of-way
within 30 feet from an intersecting right-of-way, except directional signs less
than three feet in height;
      (3)   Any sign located in a public right-of-way, except those owned or
operated by a duly constituted government or governmental agency; and
      (4)   Any sign erected, posted, painted, tacked, nailed, or otherwise
displayed, placed, or located on any tree, utility pole, utility post, street
sign pole or traffic sign pole.
      (5)   Temporary signs are also regulated in §
153.147 below.
   (C)   Prohibition of unsafe signs. Any sign (permanent and temporary) which
presents a safety hazard or any sign which encroaches upon a public right-of-
way is prohibited.
   (D)   Prohibition of illegal signs. Any sign (permanent and temporary)
containing commercial speech now or hereafter existing which no longer
advertises commercial transactions on the premises which it is located, or any
sign which is contrary to the application for its permit and use, or any sign
(permanent and temporary) which is otherwise illegal, is prohibited.
   (E)   Prohibition of public nuisances. Any signs (permanent and temporary)
not erected in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or which exist
in violation hereof shall be deemed to be a public nuisance and are prohibited.
   (F)   Enforcement. If the town shall find that any sign regulated herein is
unsafe, or encroaches upon a public right-of-way in accordance with division
(C) above, such sign may be removed by the town immediately without notice.
Otherwise, if the town shall find that a sign is prohibited in accordance with
this section, or is not properly maintained in accordance with §§
153.144 or
153.147 as applicable, the town shall give written notice to the permittee or
owner thereof that such sign is in violation of town code. If the permittee or
owner fails to remove the sign or otherwise cure the violation so as to comply
with standards set forth in this subchapter within 30 days after such notice,
such sign may be removed or altered to comply by the town at the expense of the
permittee or owner, or person having the right to the use and possession of the
property upon which the sign is located. In addition, the town may prosecute
such violations before the code enforcement Special Magistrate.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.146 PERMANENT SIGNS.
   (A)   Types and designations for permitted signs. Subject to the other
provisions of this subchapter, the following types of permanent signs are
permitted throughout the town:
      (1)   (P-1) All signs and signals owned or operated by governments or
governmental agencies;
      (2)   (P-2) Identification signs for public and semi-public facilities,
such as clubs and public buildings;
      (3)   (P-3) Nameplates identifying the owner or resident of a private
property;
      (4)   (P-4) Memorial or historical markers or tablets;
      (5)   (P-5) Signs indicating the private nature of a road, driveway or
other premises, and signs controlling the use of private property, such as the
prohibition of parking or trespassing;
      (6)   (P-6) Directional signs indicating the route or direction to a
place, establishment or activity;
      (7)   (P-7) Commercial or office “point of purchase” signs, attached to
the building, for individual establishments in commercial districts; and
      (8)   (P-8) Freestanding directory and/or identification signs in
commercial districts to be located on the site of the business premises.
   (B)   Size and space requirements for permitted signs. The size and space
requirements for each type of the permanent signs permitted within the town,
and the standards and specifications to which they must conform, are shown on
the following table.
Sign Types P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8
Sign Types    P1 P2       P3       P4      P5       P6    P7         P8
                                                                     6, plus 1
1. Maximum                                                           per foot
area for one                                                         of
sign (sq.     -  32       2        12      4        2     See below  building
ft.)                                                                 frontage,
                                                                     max. of
                                                                     100
                                                          1 per 100
                                                          ft. of
                                                          street
                                                          frontage
                                           1 per          at the
2. Maximum                                 100 ft.        building
number of     -  2        1 per    1       of       See   and 1 per  -
signs per use             dwelling         street   below major
                                           frontage       entrance
                                                          for each
                                                          street on
                                                          which
                                                          building
                                                          fronts
3. Minimum
setback from  -  10       -        -       -        10    10         10
public right-
of-way (ft.)
4. Maximum       1 above
height if        height                                              Height of
sign attached -  of       8 above  8 above 8 above  -     6 above    building
to building      building
(ft.)
5. Maximum                                                Same as    Same as
height to top                                             building   building
if            -  10       8        8 above 8        -     height for height for
freestanding                       grade                  applicable applicable
(ft.)                                                     zoning     zoning
                                                          district   district
6. Maximum
projection
from building
face if       -  13       12       12      12       18    18         NA
attached
parallel to
building face
(ft.)
7. Maximum
projection
from building
face if       -  6        2        6       6        2     6          NA
perpendicular
to building
face (ft.)
8. Minimum
height to     -  -        -        -       -        -     10 if      10 if
bottom of                                                 elevated   elevated
sign (ft.)
9. Maximum                                                           As
area of all   -  -        -        -       -        -     See below  determined
signs (2 or                                                          by items 1
more signs)                                                          and 2
 
   (C)   Additional requirements for P-7 signs. In addition to the requirements
shown on the sign table set forth in the preceding division, type P-7 signs are
subject to the following regulations. The maximum permitted area for each P-
7 sign shall be 10% of the square footage of the building face fronting on the
primary street of its location, and 5% of the square footage facing on a
secondary or side street. If a building is located on a corner lot, it may have
a sign on both the front and side street frontages. The area of the building
face is determined by multiplying the height of the building, not to exceed 20
feet, by the width of the building. When there is more than one use in any
building, each use shall be permitted a sign for each frontage, provided that
the total area of all such signs shall not exceed the maximum allowable sign
area on each frontage.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.147 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Size limitations. Where permitted by this subchapter, temporary signs,
including construction signs and portable signs, shall not exceed ten square
feet in size.
   (B)   Materials; maintenance. Temporary signs shall be manufactured of a
material that is durable and made to withstand limited exposure to the
elements. Temporary signs shall be maintained at all times in a "like-new"
condition. Any temporary sign permitted by this chapter that evidences
weathering or damage shall be immediately removed or replaced by the owner.
Failure to do so shall subject the sign to the enforcement provisions of §
153.144 above.
   (C)   Storm events. All temporary signs permitted by this chapter shall be
removed and safely stored within a structure upon the declaration by the State
of Florida, Palm Beach County, or the National Weather Service of a tropical
storm or hurricane watch or warning that includes the Town of Briny Breezes
within the scope of the declaration and shall not be displayed until after the
storm system has completely passed the town and the declaration has been
lifted.
   (D)   Construction signs. Construction signs as defined herein, including
signs identifying architects, engineers, contractors, tradesman and others
engaged in construction work, are allowed to be posted on the premises of
commercially-zoned (C-1) property wherein their work is proceeding. One sign
per work site is allowed. Such sign shall be removed as soon as the work ceases
or is completed.
   (E)   Portable signs. Portable signs as defined herein, are permitted,
including A-frame, sandwich or double-faced signs, on which the text may be
changed from day to day. Such portable signs shall not be placed or located
except on commercially zoned (C-1) private property. Compliance with this
provision does not eliminate the need to comply with applicable corporation
rules and regulations.
   (F)   Temporary signs for definite events. Temporary signs associated with a
definite event shall be permitted on commercially zoned (C-1) property
beginning 30 days prior to the event. By way of example: religious services for
a particular holiday are one definite event; multiple candidates running for
office as well as individual ballot questions related to a particular issue all
occurring at the same election are each a separate definite event; a birthday
party is one definite event; association sponsored events are each a separate
definite event. Signs shall be removed promptly upon the conclusion of the
event. One such temporary sign per event per C-1 parcel or lot is permitted.
   (G)   Temporary signs not for definite events. Temporary signs which are not
associated with a definite event shall be permitted on commercially zoned (C-1)
property at all times. By way of example, these are signs generally expressing
allegiance (or opposition) to a school or sports team; or signs generally
expressing support (or opposition) to an ideological, social-familial or
political concept generally, but that are not associated with any particular
election. One such temporary sign per C-1 parcel or lot is permitted.
   (H)   Temporary signs containing commercial speech are prohibited on all
residentially zoned parcels or lots.
   (I)   Temporary signs are prohibited in the Parking and Landscape (PL-1)
District. Temporary signs are prohibited in the Public/Semi-Public (PSP-1)
District and the Recreation (R-1) District except pursuant to official
regulations duly adopted and published by the Corporation Board of Directors.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
§ 153.148 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the town regarding the interpretation
or application of this subchapter may have such decisions reviewed on a summary
basis by the Board of Adjustment of the town, pursuant to the procedure for
same so made and provided. Such appeal shall be scheduled for hearing at the
next regular Town Council meeting, provided that notice of the proposed appeal
is given to the Town Clerk at least ten days prior to such meeting.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 01-2021, passed 5-27-2021)
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 153.160 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide appropriate
standards relating to the operation and performance of certain activities
throughout the town.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to prohibit those
operations which create or maintain excessive noise, vibration, air pollution,
odor, fire or explosive hazard, annoyance from glare or heat, toxic liquid or
solid waste hazards, electromagnetic interference or burdensome traffic
congestion. Such conditions constitute a detriment to the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety and welfare. These standards are therefore
provided to protect the public interest against such adverse impacts and to
promote the public health and welfare.
   (C)   Applicability. These standards shall apply to all land and water areas
within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (D)   Standard reference manuals. The following reference manuals shall be
used to implement this subchapter.
      (1)   40 C.F.R., which shall refer to and mean the Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 40, entitled “Protection of Environment”.
      (2)   FAC17-2 which shall refer to and mean Chapter 17-2 of the Florida
Administrative Code, entitled “Air Pollution”;
      (3)   APAM, which shall refer to and mean a manual entitled “Air
Pollution Abatement Manual” of the Manufacturing Chemist Association; and,
      (4)   ANSI, which shall refer to and mean the manual entitled “American
National Standards Institute - Applicable Standards”.
   (E)   Standard measuring devices and instruments. The measuring devices and
instruments which are referred to or utilized in the reference manuals cited
above shall be used to implement, measure, determine and apply the standards
required under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.161 NOISE.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to make, cause or
continue to make, any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise, or any
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others, within the town limits.
   (B)   Reference standards. Unless otherwise defined herein, all terminology
shall be in conformance with applicable publications of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   (C)   Noise measuring devices. In addition to other available equipment or
means, noise may be measured with a sound level meter meeting the ANSI
standards, and pursuant to measurements conducted in accordance with the
American Standard Method for the Physical Measurement of Sound.
   (D)   Frequency and decibels. For all zoning districts, there shall be no
noise measured along the property line on which the use is located which shall
exceed the values given in the following table.
Frequency Band in Cycles/Seconds Average Sound Level in Decibels
Frequency Band in Cycles/Seconds Average Sound Level in Decibels
0 to 75                          55
75 to 150                        50
150 to 300                       44
300 to 600                       38
600 to 1,200                     35
1,200 to 2,400                   32
2,400 to 4,800                   29
4,800 and above                  26
 
   (E)   Noise restrictions for air conditioning units. Noise level
restrictions for air conditioning equipment are contained in §
153.028(F).
   (F)   Exemptions. The following activities or sources are exempt from these
noise standards:
      (1)   Noise from the operation of refuse collection and utility service
vehicles;
      (2)   Noise from construction or routine maintenance of public service
utilities;
      (3)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or created in the performance of emergency work; and
      (4)   Noise from routine lawn and landscape maintenance activity and
equipment
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.162 VIBRATION.
   Every use shall be so operated and conducted that the ground and other
vibrations inherently and recurrently generated thereby are not perceptible
without the use of instruments at any point on or beyond any lot line on which
the use is located.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.163 AIR POLLUTION.
   (A)   Standards. To protect and enhance the air quality of the town, all
sources of air pollution shall comply with rules set forth by the Environmental
Protection Agency (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40) and the Florida
Department of Environmental Regulations (Florida Administrative Code, Chapter
17-2), as amended. No person shall operate a regulated source of air pollution
without a valid operation permit issued by the Department of Environmental
Regulations.
   (B)   Testing. Air pollution emissions shall be tested and results reported
in accordance with techniques and methods adopted by the Florida Department of
Environmental Regulation and submitted to the state. These tests shall be
carried out under the supervision of the state and at the expense of the person
responsible for the source of pollution.
   (C)   Smoke.
      (1)   Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the emission of smoke,
from any source whatsoever, to a density greater than described as Number 1 on
the Ringelmann Chart, provided, however, that smoke equal to, but not in excess
of that shade of appearance described as Number 2 on the Ringelmann Chart may
be emitted for a period or periods including four minutes in any 30 minutes.
      (2)   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann
Chart as published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, and which is
hereby made, by reference, a part of this chapter, shall be the standard. All
measurements shall be at the point of emission.
   (D)   Dust and dirt. Every use shall be so operated as to prevent the
emission into the air of dust or other solid matter which may cause damage to
property or discomfort to persons or animals at or beyond the lot line of the
property on which the use is located.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.164 ODOR.
   No emissions of odorous gases or other odorous material shall be permitted
in such quantity as to be offensive at any point on or beyond any lot line of
the premises where generated.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.165 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARD.
   (A)   Abatement of fire and explosive hazards. In all zoning districts,
activities shall be carried on in a careful and prudent manner and with
reasonable precautions against fire and explosive hazards so as to avoid and
eliminate causing any fire or explosion hazard to the premises located thereon
or to adjacent property. Storage of combustible materials shall be in
compliance with the provisions of all Building and Fire Prevention Codes.
Materials or products which produce flammable or explosive vapors under
ordinary weather temperatures shall be adequately safeguarded as provided
thereunder.
   (B)   Standards. In all zoning districts in which the storage or use of
flammable or explosive materials is permitted, the following standards shall
apply.
      (1)   The storage and utilization of solid materials or products which
are incombustible, or which in themselves support combustion but are consumed
slowly as they burn, is permitted.
      (2)   The storage and utilization of solid materials or products which
are free burning or intense burning is permitted provided that said materials
or products shall be stored and utilized within completely enclosed buildings
having noncombustible walls, floors and ceilings and protected throughout by an
automatic fire extinguishing system, except where the introduction of water to
a burning substance would cause additional hazard.
      (3)   The storage and utilization of flammable and combustible liquids,
or materials which produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases, shall be
permitted in accordance with the provisions of the Standard Fire Code.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.166 GLARE OR HEAT.
   Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building so that no operation will produce or cause
annoyance to others by reason of heat or glare extending beyond the property
line of the lot on which the operation or use is located.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.167 DISCHARGE OF TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER OR WASTE.
   (A)   Abatement of toxic or noxious matter. In all zoning districts, no use
or occupancy shall be permitted to discharge any toxic or noxious matter into
the environment in such concentration as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury or damage to the
ecology or to the property or business of others.
   (B)   Toxic waste discharge. No person shall discharge at any point into any
public or private sewage disposal system, or into any stream or water body, or
dump onto the ground, any toxic liquids or materials which, in any way, are of
such type, nature, composition or temperature as to contaminate any land, water
body or water supply, or otherwise cause the emission or release of dangerous
or objectionable elements. All disposal of toxic waste shall strictly conform
to the requirements of the approved standards applicable thereto.
   (C)   Discharge of toxic solid or liquid waste. No discharge of solid or
liquid wastes shall be permitted which contain any other acids, oils, dusts,
toxic metals, corrosive or other toxic substances, whether in solution or
suspension, which would create odor, poison or otherwise pollute any land,
stream or water body in the town.
   (D)   Accumulation of trash and debris. No accumulation of trash, debris or
other solid waste shall be permitted on any property except in the manner
approved for proper pickup and disposal purposes. No such waste materials shall
be deposited upon any lot or property in such form or manner as to be conducive
to the breeding of rodents, vermin or insects, nor be subject to being
transferred off of that lot or property onto the adjoining property of others
by natural causes or forces.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.168 ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE.
   In all zoning districts, no use, activity or process shall be conducted
which produces electric and/or magnetic fields which adversely affect public
health, safety and welfare, including but not limited to, interference with
normal radio, telephone or television reception at or beyond the lot line of
the premises where such activity or use is conducted.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.169 TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The traffic performance standards ordinance of the county, which was adopted
as a county-wide enactment, shall apply to all new development approved by the
town.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.170 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Except where a person is acting in good faith to
comply with an abatement order, violation of any provision of this code shall
be cause for a notice of violation to be issued by the town.
   (B)   Enforcement. The enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be as provided in §§
153.230 through 153.237.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.171 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official or Zoning
Official regarding the interpretation or application of this subchapter may
have such decisions reviewed on a summary basis by the Board of Adjustment of
the town, pursuant to the procedure for same so made and provided. Such appeal
shall be scheduled for hearing at the next regular Town Council meeting,
provided that notice of the proposed appeal is given to the Town Clerk at least
ten days prior to such meeting.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND HARDSHIP RELIEF
§ 153.185 AUTHORITY.
   The town shall have the authority to amend, revise, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter. The town shall also have the
authority to grant development approvals pursuant to the procedural and
substantive requirements of the code. The code regulations are designed and
intended to be consistent with and to further the goals, objectives and
policies of the Briny Breezes Comprehensive Land Use Plan. Any amendment to the
code and any development approvals granted thereunder shall also maintain
consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, pursuant to §§
153.065 through
153.070.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.186 REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The regulations and provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the
minimum requirements adopted to encourage orderly growth and the protection and
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, order,
appearance, prosperity and general welfare. If more stringent regulations,
restrictions and controls over the use and occupancy of buildings, structures
and land and water areas within the town arise from any private contractual
relationship between the owners and the occupiers of property, by reason of any
rules, regulations, easements and property rights existing between private
parties holding title and occupying property under a corporate form of
cooperative ownership, the provisions of this chapter shall not supersede or
cancel same.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.187 NON-ABROGATION.
   (A)   Non-repeal of private regulations. This subchapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or interfere with any of the covenants, rules, regulations or
by-laws of any property owners’ association or any corporation created for such
purpose, including the provisions contained in cooperative property agreements,
proprietary leases, cooperative land ownership and the requirements, rules and
regulations imposed under corporate shareholder relationships. The enforcement
of all such property rights, easements, covenants and other agreements between
property owners, unit occupants, residents, shareholders and stockholders
having rights under a corporate form of cooperative land ownership created for
such purposes, shall be adjusted directly between the parties themselves,
without the involvement of the town.
   (B)   Consent of property owners’ association. Whenever the subject matter
of an application for review, approval or change under this subchapter is also
governed by independent restrictions and controls imposed by private covenants,
agreements, contractual development obligations, or recorded covenants which
run with the land, the applicant shall include with the application written
documentation that the approval sought has been first approved by the property
owners’ association or property management corporation involved.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.188 DEFINITIONS (APPLICATION PROCEDURE).
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These
definitions shall be supplemented by the definitions contained in §§
153.020 through
153.032, and also by the definitions contained in §§
153.045 through
153.050. All of the foregoing definitions shall be applicable to this
subchapter.
   BENEFITTING PARCELS. Parcels of land which will be entitled to receive the
benefit of the transferred development rights from the controlled parcel.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The net area of a benefitted parcel remaining after
deducting any non-buildable area contained therein.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The same as Comprehensive Land Use Plan which means the
official public document adopted by the Town Council as a legislative policy
guide to present and future land use decisions.
   CONSERVATION PURPOSES. The conservation of land or water areas, the
preservation of buildings or sites of historical or cultural significance and
the preserving of land or water areas dominantly in their natural scenic, open
or wooded condition.
   CONTROLLED PARCELS. Parcels of land from which the development rights shall
be identified, severed and detached for purposes of transfer to benefitted
parcels.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHT. The right of the owner of the fee interest in the land to
change the use of the land.
   NON-BUILDABLE AREAS. Land or water areas within the gross area of a
benefitted parcel which are not available to the owner for the placement,
location or construction of buildings or structures. This may be due either to
the physical inability of the surface area to support such construction or to
the operation and effect of conservation or preservation restrictions imposed
on the area prohibiting or limiting construction thereof.
   OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL OR PARK PURPOSES. Includes, but is not necessarily
limited to, boating, golfing, camping, swimming, horseback riding and
archaeological, scenic or scientific sites and applies only to land which is
open generally to the owners, residents of the park and their guests and
invitees.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land area, the term OWNER shall include
any part owner, joint owner, corporate owner, any unit owner in a cooperative
form of property ownership, any  shareholder in a corporate form of cooperative
ownership, trustee, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building, mobile home,
land or water area.
   OWNER OF PROPERTY. Same as OWNER.
   PRESERVATION PURPOSE. The protection and continuation of unique ecological
characteristics, rare or limited combinations or geological formations or
features of a rare or limited nature constituting habitat suitable for fish,
plants or wild life, and like uses which would be consistent with conservation,
recreation and open space, and coastal protection elements of the Town
Comprehensive Plan.
   PUBLIC PURPOSES. A benefit gained by the public by way of conservation of
land or water areas, preservation of unique ecological characteristics, or the
dedication of land areas in the town which serve the conservation,
preservation, outdoor recreation or park purposes of the public or which
otherwise facilitates the timely and orderly donation of lands needed by the
town for beneficial and aesthetic public purposes or other necessary public
purposes.
   SITE. A parcel of land that contains more than one use or principal
structure.
   SITE COVERAGE. The portion of a site, expressed as a percentage, occupied by
all buildings or structures which are roofed or otherwise covered and that
extend more than one foot above the surface ground level.
   SITE PLAN. A graphic and/or narrative description of the details of design
relevant to a proposed development. Typically, a SITE PLAN shows the size,
nature, setbacks and type of the proposed development with exterior elevations
or schematic illustrations of representative buildings and structures which are
intended to be included in the application.
   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. A mechanism which permits the development
rights of the controlled parcel to be transferred to one or more benefitted
parcels of land for future use.
   UNITY OF TITLE, AS A RECORDED INSTRUMENT. A document recorded in the office
of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the county stipulating that a lot, lots or
parcel of land shall be held under single ownership, shall not be eligible for
further subdivision and shall not be transferred, conveyed, sold or divided in
any unit other than in its entirety.
   UNITY OF TITLE, AS A NON-RECORDED AGREEMENT. A document placed on file in
the office of the corporation owner which manages and administers the
cooperative association of the town mobile home park. This document may be in
the form of a combined stock certificate or as a separate agreement or
declaration stipulating that a lot, lots or parcel of land shall be held under
single ownership, shall not be eligible for further subdivision and shall not
be transferred, conveyed, sold or divided in any unit other than in its
entirety.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land, buildings or structures are
designated, arranged, intended, used or for which purpose it is or may be
occupied, used or maintained; or any activity,  occupation, business or
operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or other
structure or on a tract of land.
   USE-BY-RIGHT. The uses which are enumerated in the district regulations and
are compatible with the intent provided for that district.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. An ordinance which rezones specific parcels of real
property or which changes the permitted use categories or the regulations
pertaining to use and occupancy in a specific zoning district.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.189 GENERAL APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Public hearing by Planning and Zoning Board. No amendment, supplement
or repeal of the code and no development approval granted hereunder shall be
made until after the Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing in
relation thereto, and make its recommendation thereon for final action by the
Town Council, which shall likewise require a public hearing. At all such public
hearings, parties in interest, residents and citizens shall have an opportunity
to be heard on the application being considered.
   (B)   Public notice for public meetings and public hearings.
      (1)   Before a public meeting or a public hearing is held by the Town
Council, or by the Local Planning Agency, or by the Planning and Zoning Board,
or by the Board of Adjustment, or by the Land Development Regulation
Commission, the town shall give public notice of such meeting and/or hearing
shall by posting a written notice thereof in public display at the entrance to
the Town Hall and at two other prominent places within the town at least three
days before the date of the public meeting or public hearing. The notice shall
contain sufficient information to identify the date, time, place and general
purpose of the public meeting or public hearing. This notice may be in the form
of a copy of the agenda for the public meeting that identifies the public
hearing listed thereon and contains the additional information as herein above
set forth. Publication of a notice of a public meeting or a public hearing that
appears as a legal advertisement in a newspaper printed in the county may be
omitted unless otherwise required by law.
      (2)   In the event that the specific action to be taken at a public
meeting or at a public hearing by the Town Council, or by the Local Planning
Agency, or by the Planning and Zoning Board, or by the Board of Adjustment, or
by the Land Development Regulation Commission requires that the public notice
thereof shall be published in a newspaper as a legal notice thereof, then the
town shall publish such legal notice according to the notice procedures
required and described by the governing law applicable thereto.
   (C)   Alternate notice. In lieu of publishing a notice of such public
hearing or meeting in a newspaper as provided herein, the town may mail or
otherwise serve a notice of the public hearing to each person owning real
property or residing within a radius of 200 feet of the area covered by the
petition to amend, supplement or repeal the code or to grant an approval
hereunder. Said written notice shall provide at least seven days’ notice of the
meeting date and the time and place of the meeting. The failure, however, to
mail or receive such courtesy notice shall not affect any action or proceedings
taken hereunder.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-08, passed 2-28-2008)
§ 153.190 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Types of applications covered. The procedures and requirements in this
subchapter shall apply in submitting applications for the following procedures:
      (1)   Comprehensive plan amendments;
      (2)   Changes to the zoning ordinance and rezonings;
      (3)   Plat approval;
      (4)   Special permit approvals;
      (5)   Site plan approval;
      (6)   Transfer of development rights;
      (7)   Special exception approvals; and
      (8)   Variance request approvals.
   (B)   Not applicable to building permits. This subchapter shall not apply to
the application for, or the issuance of, building permits for uses by right.
   (C)   Filing with Clerk. The party initiating a request for town action
hereunder shall file an application for same with the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Filing fees. The town shall charge each applicant the filing fees
which are hereby established and required by the town at the time of for type
of land development applications covered or procedures provided under this
subchapter, or for any amendments or changes thereto. The Town Council shall
establish the amount of the filing fee for each type of land development
application by the adoption of a town resolution creating a fee schedule for
this purpose. All applicants shall pay the fee as established by the town
resolution at the time of filing the application with the town. All fees shall
be made payable to the town, and deposited with the Town Clerk for collection.
   (E)   Filing dates, generally. All applications shall be submitted to the
Town Clerk no later than 30 days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning
and Zoning Board meeting.
   (F)   Scheduling and supporting documents. Upon receipt of a completed
application, the Town Clerk shall place it on the calendar of the Planning and
Zoning Board. when the application is placed on the calendar, the Town Clerk
shall inform the Town Zoning Official, who shall examine the application for
completeness, and may request the applicant to present additional information,
if necessary, to support the application. All supporting material must be in
hand no later than ten days prior to the meeting date.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007)
§ 153.191 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Contiguous property requirement. All properties within a single
application must be contiguous and abutting each other so as to be considered
as a joint property for the purpose of a single application. Otherwise separate
properties shall not be combined for the purpose of application but shall be
the subject of separate petitions and filing fees.
   (B)   Official forms. No application shall be accepted unless it is
presented on the official forms provided by the town. The application shall be
prepared and submitted with the number of copies thereof as may be requested by
the Zoning Official, but not to exceed a maximum number of 12.
   (C)   Completeness. Before an application may be accepted, it must fully
comply with all required information enumerated herein, unless waived by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.192 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Scope of review by Planning and Zoning Board. In conducting public
hearings on the applications provided hereunder, the Planning and Zoning Board
may recommend appropriate conditions, restrictions, limitations and safeguards
for approval which it deems necessary or desirable to:
      (1)   Avoid excessive noise, traffic, disease or other obnoxious hazards;
      (2)   Maintain the present and future land use plan and/or use trend of
the subject area;
      (3)   Produce minimum visual, audible or ecological pollution; and
      (4)   Provide for adequate provisions for the service of required public
necessities, transportation, water supply, sewage disposal, drainage and
sanitation solid waste purposes.
   (B)   Report by Board. Within 30 days after the public hearing on any
application for review, report or referral on a zoning, development or planning
matter, the Planning and Zoning Board shall record its review, analysis and
recommendations in written form.
   (C)   Contents of Board report. In preparing its recommendation for
approval, revision or denial of an application, the Board shall state:
      (1)   The relevant information submitted by the applicant and gathered by
the Board, including exhibits, studies, reports or other matters presented;
      (2)   The significant findings of facts and conclusions regarding the
applications conformance with the requirements of this Code; and
      (3)   The findings regarding of the application’s impact on traffic,
utility services, drainage or educational opportunities, recreational
facilities, noise disruptive or adverse impacts on adjacent properties, the
character of the site and district, the suitability of the site for the
particular use requested and the impact of the application on the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, order, appearance, prosperity
or general welfare of the town and its residents.
   (D)   Minutes of meeting. Minutes will be kept of all meetings and
proceedings of the Board and shall include and state the vote of each member on
each question.
   (E)   Recommendation by Planning and Zoning Board. After the Board rules on
the application, it shall make its recommendation to the Town Council, and/or
the Board of Adjustment, and forward any relevant explanation or prescribed
conditions of approval. All such material shall become part of the file on such
application, and available for public inspection.
   (F)   Record of proceedings. All information, documents, maps, exhibits and
supplemental information reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board shall be
transmitted to the Town Council and/or, to the Board of Adjustment, for final
action. No additional information or documents, shall be presented by the
applicant to the Town Council and/or Board of Adjustment for review, unless
this requirement is waived.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.193 TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Public hearing by Town Council. Within 30 days of receipt of the
Planning and Zoning Board recommendations and record of proceedings, the Town
Council shall hold a public hearing to hear and decide the application and to
act on the application, as required by law.
   (B)   Authority. At its public hearing, the Town Council shall consider and
take final action upon the application, and shall exercise its lawful authority
to amend, supplement or repeal the regulations and provisions of this chapter,
and to grant, deny or revise the request or application for development
approval.
   (C)   Action at hearing. The Town Council shall have the authority to
approve, disapprove or modify the application submitted, or to defer action for
its continued information and review, or to inspect the site in question, or
for such reasonable cause extended by the Council as its justifiable reason.
   (D)   Record of final action. When the final action has been taken by the
Town Council, its record and minutes shall be open to the public. Upon request,
the Town Clerk shall provide the applicant with a copy of the certified minutes
of the action taken on the application.
   (E)   Application amendment and withdrawal. The applicant may not amend its
application after the official notice of the public hearing by the Town Council
has been published. Otherwise the applicant must refile in the same manner as
for a new application, including the payment of a new application fee, unless
waived by the Town Council.
   (F)   Application for rehearing. Whenever, after the review, investigation
and hearing by the Town Council, any application for a change in zoning or in
the requirements for a zoning district classification has been denied, a re-
application cannot be submitted to the town until the expiration of at least
six months thereafter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.194 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CHANGE.
   (A)   Authority for changes to the Plan. The Town Council shall have the
authority to adopt changes to the town’s Comprehensive Plan, as provided by
law.
   (B)   Review by Local Planning Agency.
      (1)   Generally. Applications to amend the town’s Comprehensive Plan
shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board sitting as the Local
Planning Agency for the town as provided by law. The review of the application
to amend the Comprehensive Plan shall be the subject of a public hearing and
the Local Planning Agency shall forward its recommendations to the Town Council
for final action.
      (2)   Review of the Comprehensive Plan. Applications to amend the town’s
Comprehensive Plan, and the review process in connection therewith, shall be
conducted by the Local Planning Agency. All meetings of the Local Planning
Agency shall be public meetings, and the agency’s records shall be public
records. During the procedures required to prepare the Comprehensive Plan, or
to review an application for the amendment thereof, the Local Planning Agency
shall hold a minimum of one public hearing thereon, with notice to the public.
Upon completion of its work, the Local Planning Agency shall forward its
recommendations to the Town Council regarding the adoption or amendment of the
town’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Filing dates, Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive Plan of the town
may only be amended two times each year, or as otherwise provided by law. The
deadline for filing an application for a plan amendment with the Town Clerk
shall be the close of business on the last Fridays in March and September of
each year, except if the town is the applicant for such amendment. Applications
by the town to amend the Comprehensive Plan may be commenced at any time during
the calendar year, but in no event shall the town receive or consider more than
two applications to amend the town’s Comprehensive Plan in each calendar year.
   (D)   Procedure for Comprehensive Plan change. The notice, hearings and
other requirements for changing the Comprehensive Plan shall be governed by
statutory requirements. The provisions of F.S. §§ 163.3184 and 163.3187,
providing for amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, are hereby incorporated
into this code by reference and made a part hereof.
   (E)   Evaluation and appraisal report: relation to amending the
Comprehensive Plan. The duties of the Planning and Zoning Board acting as the
LPA shall include the preparation of an evaluation and appraisal report,
hereafter referred to as the EAR, and to make recommendation to the Town
Council for the adoption thereof in conformity with the provisions of F.S. §
163.3191. When completed by the town and approved after review by the
Department of Community Affairs, the EAR will form the basis for amendments to
update the Comprehensive Plan. The EAR shall assess and evaluate the success or
failure of the town’s present Comprehensive Plan, including the validity of the
projections, the realization of the goals and objectives, the implementation of
the Plan’s policies, and the changes in community conditions since the adoption
of the Plan. The findings and recommendations contained in the town’s EAR shall
also address the effect those changes have in recommending an update of the
Plan to meet the present and the future needs of the community. The scope of
review of the present Comprehensive Plan which will be needed to complete the
EAR will covers many factors. It is the intention of the town that the work of
the LPA can best be done in segments over a series of public meetings where
attention is focused separately on each of the individual elements or specific
portions of the elements which comprise the entire Comprehensive Plan and the
effect they have on the community. After completing its review on each segment
the LPA shall make its recommendations to the Town Council for adoption,
limited each time to those individual areas it has reviewed. It is the
intention of the town that the work of the LPA and the Council be coordinated
in a continuous process whereby the several individual elements comprising the
EAR are presented, reviewed and made the subject of recommendations by the LPA
for adoption by the Town Council in stages and collected until all the work has
been completed and the LPA can make its final recommendation to the Town
Council for the adoption of a complete and final EAR document.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007; Ord. 1-08, passed 2-
28-2008)
§ 153.195 PROCEDURE FOR ZONING AND REZONINGS CHANGES.
   (A)   Authority for zoning change. The Town Council shall have the authority
to make changes to the zoning ordinances, to rezone property from one zoning
classification to another, and to make other changes to this code. The exercise
of this authority shall require that all such changes shall be consistent with
the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and that they benefit the
general welfare of the community. The Town Council in taking final action of
approval shall determine that the application is in compliance with all
applicable criteria.
   (B)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board. Applications to rezone property
or to change the zoning requirements within the zoning districts shall be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board at a public hearing and its
recommendations forwarded to the Town Council for final action.
   (C)   Contents of rezoning application. An application for a rezoning or
zoning change shall include a submission of the following information and
supporting documents:
      (1)   A statement of the petitioner’s interest in the property and the
written consent to the petition by all owners of record;
      (2)   A plot plan or boundary sketch which has been reviewed and approved
by the duly appointed representatives of any property owners’ association or
property management corporation, together with a lot and block reference or
other means of legal description identifying the property of the application;
      (3)   A complete list of all property owners and mailing addresses for
all property within 200 feet of the subject parcel as recorded in the latest
official tax roll prepared by the County Property Appraiser or otherwise
determined;
      (4)   A statement of the special reasons or basis for the rezoning or
zoning change, including the intended use and development of the property shown
on an adequate site plan;
      (5)   The existing and/or proposed development of the site;
      (6)   Surrounding land uses within 100 feet of the site; and
      (7)   Other reasonable information requested by the town which is
commensurate with the intent and purpose of this code.
   (D)   Criteria for zoning change. In the review of applications for a
rezoning or zoning change, the following criteria shall apply. In order to
approve the rezoning or change requested, the town must find substantial
compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   The requested change shall lessen congestion in the streets, secure
safety from fire, panic and other dangers, promote health, morals and the
general welfare, provide adequate light and air, prevent the overcrowding of
land or buildings, avoid undue concentration of population, provide for
adequate public facilities and utilities, preserve natural resources, promote
adequate storm drainage, and enhance the beauty and visual interest of the
community.
      (2)   The requested change shall be in keeping with the development
characteristics of the zoning district in which the property is located, and be
suitable to the use proposed. The approval should encourage the most
appropriate use of land through out the town with a view of conserving the
value of property affected.
   (E)   Time limit for zoning changes. A rezoning or a change to the criteria
of a zoning district is valid until subsequently amended or repealed by the
town in conformance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.196 PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVALS.
   Applications for plat approvals shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning
Board and its recommendations forwarded to the Town Council for final action,
pursuant to the provisions set forth in §§
153.045 through
153.050.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.197 PROCEDURE FOR SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Authority for special permits. The Town Council shall have the
authority to grant applications for special permits in accordance with the
procedure as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Nature of special permits. A special permit is a conditional approval
by the Town Council for a temporary use not provided for under the general
regulations of this chapter. In granting approval for a special permit, the
Town Council must find that such permit is not contrary to the general purpose
and intent of the code and that such approval will not injure the area involved
or be otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   (C)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board. Requests for special permits are
to be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board at a public hearing and its
recommendations forwarded to the Town Council for final action.
   (D)   Contents of application for special permit. An application for a
special permit shall include the same general information and supporting
documents as required for a zoning change. The applicant shall submit
sufficient data, information and/or a site plan as deemed necessary for a
proper understanding of the present conditions, the proposed changes and the
consequential effects of the application on both the property in question and
the surrounding area.
   (E)   Time limit for special permit approvals. A special permit shall be
effective for a maximum period of six months and may, upon application to the
Town Council be extended for one or more extensions of an additional six-month
period.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.198 PROCEDURE FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Site plan review. To assure the satisfactory development of land
within the town, a suitable development site plan shall be submitted for review
to the town in conformance with the regulations that follow.
   (B)   Review of small development projects. Residential development of five
lots or less, involving or the combination of not more than five existing lots
into one building site, shall be reviewed by the Town Zoning Official, who
shall have the authority without Council approval, to approve same if it meets
the requirements hereof.
   (C)   Review of site plan by Planning and Zoning Board. Requests for site
plan review for residential developments of more than five lots, and all
nonresidential developments are to be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board
at a public hearing and its recommendations forwarded to the Town Council for
final action.
   (D)   Approval required before issuance of building permit. No building
permit, as required by §§
153.120 through
153.125, shall be issued unless and until the application has been approved by
the Town Zoning Official, or, when required, by higher authority. The Zoning
Official shall complete the review and render a written decision on the
application, including any reasons for denial and any recommendations for
change or modification thereto, without undue delay, and shall furnish a copy
thereof to the applicant. The written decision by the Town Zoning Official
shall complete processing of the application, except when further review is
required by the Planning and Zoning Board and needs the approval by the Town
Council.
   (E)   Contents of application for site plan review. The party making a
request or submission for review of a development site plan shall provide the
following information:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale and have a minimum scale of one inch
equals 100 feet on sheet not to exceed a size of 24 inches by 36 inches
maximum;
      (2)   A site plan at a scale of not less than one inch equals 200 feet.
If the plan requires more than one sheet, a key diagram showing relative
location of the several sections shall be drawn on each sheet. The plan shall
include information showing all legal and equitable ownership of land involved;
      (3)   The existing public and private streets, easements or other
reservations of land within the proposed site shall be shown;
      (4)   The application shall show the approximate location of all existing
structures on the site, as well as those on adjacent properties within 100 feet
of the site;
      (5)   The use and approximate dimensions and location of all proposed
buildings and other structures shall be shown;
      (6)   All existing and proposed means of vehicular and pedestrian access
to and from the site shall be shown, together with the location and width of
all proposed streets, walkways and off-street parking facilities to serve the
various buildings and uses on the site;
      (7)   Proposals for disposing of sanitary waste, storm water, solid waste
and for providing public water facilities, emergency services and other public
improvements as may be required by the development;
      (8)   A proposed landscape plan shall be drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch equals 60 feet, including dimensions and distances. The plan
shall clearly delineate the existing and proposed parking spaces or other
vehicular use areas, access aisles and driveways. It shall contain a statement
for providing sprinkler and/or water outlets, the location, size and
description of all landscape materials, the location and size of buildings, and
shall designate by name and location the plant material to be installed or used
thereon.
      (9)   A statement indicating the location of any environmentally
sensitive lands on the property;
      (10)   Exterior elevation(s) or schematic illustration(s) typical of
building(s) or structure(s) to be located on the site, if required;
      (11)   A statement of the major planning assumptions and objectives of
the development project, including the projected population, proposed density
and the land use for each parcel within the project;
      (12)   The location and size of any open space and recreation areas;
      (13)   Proposed fencing, screening and landscaping;
      (14)   Proposed location, direction and type of outdoor parking and
security lighting;
      (15)   Proposed location, size and type of permanent outdoor signs; and
      (16)   Any other reasonable information to understand and process the
application required by the town commensurate with the intent and purpose of
this subchapter.
   (F)   Time limit for site plan approvals.
      (1)   Site plan approval granted under this subchapter shall lapse if the
development approved has not been commenced within 12 months of the date of
approval.
      (2)   After the effective time limitation has expired, subsequent
approvals or extensions shall be subject to any changes in development
regulations.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.199 TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage private land
development which implements the orderly growth in the town, and preserves,
protects and conserves natural and human-made resources.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of this subchapter is to encourage development
where adequate infrastructure can be provided, while conserving those areas of
environmental sensitivity which afford the natural, renewable resources that
are vital to the vitality and well-being of the town.
   (C)   Method of compensation. The method of compensation contemplated for
this subchapter is to grant private land owners additional densities in the
form of transferable residential dwelling units in exchange for their timely
and orderly donation of lands needed by the town for beneficial and aesthetic
public purposes, such as conservation, preservation, open space, parks, outdoor
recreational uses or other public purposes.
   (D)   Procedure for transfer. A landowner who desires to take advantage of
the benefits available under this subchapter shall make application to the town
specifying the controlled parcel, the benefitted parcel and the development
rights intended for transfer. Proof of ownership of the land areas involved,
legal description or other identification of the parcels and a description of
the public benefit to be derived by the town as a result of said transfer shall
be stated in sufficient detail for a clear understanding of the proposal. The
town may request the landowner to donate lands which it deems desirable for
public purposes. The Zoning Official shall review and evaluate all such
proposals, and shall confer and negotiate with the applicant to obtain
revisions to the proposal which conform to the spirit and intent of this
subchapter and shall submit same, with staff recommendations, for the
consideration and action of the Planning and Zoning Board and the Town Council.
The final approval of a transfer of development rights shall be implemented by
a town ordinance.
   (E)   Vesting of rights. An ordinance transferring development rights as to
specific parcels of real estate shall vest specific and identified rights
enumerated in said ordinance in the name of the owner or owners of the
benefitted parcel until the specific application for use thereof is made by
said owner to the town, and is so granted and approved by the town. Such rights
may be transferred by the owner to the grantee in a conveyance of the
benefitted parcels.
   (F)   Limitations on use of transferred rights. Written application for use
of transferred development rights must be made by the owner to the town. The
Town Council shall have the right of approval or denial thereof, subject to the
terms, provisions, conditions and restrictions of this subchapter or to special
conditions which may be imposed and contained in the implementing ordinance
granting the specific transfer approval.
   (G)   Maximum allowance limited to 25%. An application for the transfer of
development rights shall be limited exclusively to the benefitted parcels
specified therein, and may include all or part of such rights as they relate to
a land development site. A transfer shall not be applied which exceeds the
density under the current development regulations by more than 25%. The
determination of any such deviation to be applied to the benefitted parcel
shall be specified in the land development approval process by the town. If the
gross area of the benefitted parcel contains portions which are considered non-
buildable, then, for the purpose of determining the 25% maximum bonus
application to such site, the computation shall be based solely upon the net
buildable area.
   (H)   Continuation of rights. Any transfer of development rights which
remain unused by the owner thereof after application to a specific land
development application shall continue to be valid and enforceable rights of
the owner, and applicable to any further or future application requests,
without time limitation until so used, provided however, that such right can
only be used or applied to the benefitted parcels as contained in the ordinance
granting specific transfer approval.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.200 PROCEDURE FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Authority for special exceptions. The Town Council shall have the
authority to issue special exceptions. The exercise of this authority require
that the provisions for such special exceptions shall be contained within the
regulations for the zoning district where the property is located, and that the
approval thereof shall be consistent with the goals and objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan. One of the necessary elements required for approval is that
the Town Council shall find that the granting thereof will avoid an adverse
impact upon the general welfare of the community. The Town Council, in taking
final action to authorize the issuance of a special exception for the property
in question, shall also find that the application complies with the criteria
for special exception approvals as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Nature of special exception. A special exception is a use that would
not be appropriate generally or without restriction throughout the zoning
district, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to
the neighborhood, would promote the public health, safety, welfare, morals,
order, comfort, convenience, appearance or prosperity is permissible. Such uses
may be permitted in such zoning districts as special exceptions when contained
in the regulations for the applicable zoning district.
   (C)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board. Applications for special
exceptions are to be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board at a public
hearing and its recommendations forwarded to the Town Council for final action.
   (D)   Contents of special exception application. An application for a
special exception shall include a submission of the following information and
supporting documents:
      (1)   A statement of the petitioner’s interest in the property and
written consent to the petition by all owners of record;
      (2)   A plot plan or boundary sketch which has been reviewed and approved
by the duly appointed representatives of any property owners’ association or
property management corporation, together with a lot and block reference or
other means of legal description identifying the property of the application;
      (3)   A complete list of all property owners and mailing addresses for
all property within 200 feet of the subject parcel as recorded in the latest
official tax roll prepared by the County Property Appraiser or otherwise
determined;
      (4)   A statement of the special reasons or basis for the special
exception, including the intended use and development of the property shown on
an adequate site plan;
      (5)   The existing and/or proposed development of the site;
      (6)   Surrounding land uses within 100 feet of the site;
      (7)   A statement of special reasons or basis for the request, including
the intended use and development of the property shown on the site plan. The
information to be provided on or with the site plan shall be based upon the
size and nature of the proposed development and shall follow the guidelines
provided for site plan approval and if required, a plan showing exterior
elevations or schematic illustrations of representative buildings shall be
included in the application, provided it is relevant to the application; and
      (8)   Any other reasonable information which may be required by the Board
which is commensurate with the intent and purpose of this code.
   (E)   Criteria for special exception. In the review of applications for a
special exception, the following criteria shall apply. In order to authorize an
issuance of a special exception, the Town Council shall find that granting the
approval will be in substantial compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Be consistent with the goals and objectives of the town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Be in harmony and beneficial to the existing land use pattern in
the area.
      (3)   Avoid the creation of isolated districts unrelated to adjacent
uses.
      (4)   Avoid the creation of density patterns which would overly burden
public facilities, existing infrastructure and utility services.
      (5)   Be logical and beneficial to the town, under a change in
circumstance or in the existing conditions affecting the property.
      (6)   Serve as a stabilizing or beneficial influence on the living
conditions in the neighborhood.
      (7)   Avoid the creation of traffic congestion, promote efficient traffic
circulation and assist public safety for vehicular and pedestrian traffic in
the area of development.
      (8)   Promote satisfactory control of surface water drainage.
      (9)   Preserve adequate light and air to adjacent properties.
      (10)   Sustain property values for the subject land and adjacent areas.
      (11)   Promote the improvement and development of adjacent properties in
accordance with the existing regulations of the code.
      (12)   Be in harmony with the general intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Time limit for special exceptions. Approvals granted under the
provisions of this subchapter shall lapse if implementation of the development
plan in accordance with the approval granted has not been initiated within 18
months from the date of granting approval. If judicial proceedings to review
the town’s decision shall be instituted, such time period shall commence to run
from the date of entry of the final order in such proceedings, and any appeals
thereof.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.201 PROCEDURE FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Authority for variance. Upon appeal to the Board of Adjustment, the
Board may allow a variance authorizing relief or waiver from the terms and
requirements of this code. Such authorization, which shall not be contrary to
the public interest, may grant relief from the literal enforcement of this
Code, because of undue or unnecessary hardship on the person appealing. The
Board, in authorizing any variance, must find that the application for such
change meets the criteria for variance request hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board. Variance requests are to be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board at a public hearing and its
recommendation shall be forwarded to the Town Council, sitting as the Board of
Adjustment, for final action.
   (C)   Public hearing by Board of Adjustment. Within 30 days of receipt of
the Planning and Zoning Board recommendations and record of proceedings, the
Town Council, sitting as the Board of Adjustment, shall hold a public hearing
to hear and review the application, and shall act on the application as
required by law.
   (D)   Contents of variance application. An application for a variance shall
require the submission of the following information and supporting documents:
      (1)   A statement of the petitioner’s interest in the property and the
written consent to the petition by the owners of record and any property owners
association having jurisdiction thereof;
      (2)   A plot plan or boundary sketch which has been reviewed and approved
by the duly appointed representatives of any property owners’ association or
property management corporation, together with a lot and block reference or
other means of legal description to identify the property of the application;
      (3)   A complete list of all property owners and mailing addresses for
all property within 200 feet of the subject parcel as recorded in the latest
official tax roll prepared by the County Property Appraiser or otherwise
determined;
      (4)   A statement of the special reasons or basis for the variance
request, including the intended use and development of the property shown on an
adequate site plan;
      (5)   The existing and/or proposed development of the site;
      (6)   Surrounding land uses within 100 feet of the site; and
      (7)   Any other reasonable information which may be required by the Board
which is commensurate with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (E)   Criteria for variance request.
      (1)   In the review of applications for a variance, the following
criteria shall apply.
      (2)   To authorize the issuance of a variance, the Board of Adjustment
shall find that all of the following requirements are met by the property which
is the subject of the application.
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved, which are not generally applicable to
other lands, structures or buildings in the same zoning district.
         (b)   The special conditions and circumstances involved do not result
from the actions of the applicant.
         (c)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of the code would
deprive the applicant of those which are rights commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same zoning district and which would work unnecessary and
undue hardship on the applicant.
         (d)   The variance, if granted, would be the minimum variance that
will make possible the use of the land, building or structure.
         (e)   The grant of the variance will be in harmony with the general
intent and purpose of the code.
         (f)   The grant of the variance will not be injurious to the area
involved or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
   (F)   Conditions for issuance of variances. In granting any variance, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with the code, violations of such conditions and safeguards if made
a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this code. The Board of Adjustment may also prescribe a reasonable
time limit within which the variance shall be begun, or completed, or both.
   (G)   Limitations on issuance of variances. The Board of Adjustment shall
not grant a variance which permits a use or special exception which is not
permitted in the zoning district involved. The nonconforming use of neighboring
lands, structures or buildings in the same zoning district and the permitted
use of lands, structures or buildings in other zoning districts shall not be
considered grounds for the authorization of a variance. Financial hardship
alone shall not be considered sufficient evidence of the type of hardship
required for the granting of a variance.
   (H)   Time limit for variance approvals. Unless a longer time period is
provided by the Board, variances granted hereunder shall lapse if not
implemented within 18 months from the date of approval. If judicial proceedings
to review the issuance of the variance are instituted, such time period shall
run from the date of entry of the final order in such proceedings, including
all appeals.
   (I)   Review of Board of adjustment decisions. The decision of the Board of
Adjustment in granting or denying a variance shall be final. The Board’s
decision may be reviewed by the filing of a petition for writ of certiorari in
the Circuit Court of the county, in accordance with the procedure and time
limits prescribed by the applicable court rules.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
BOARDS AND AGENCIES
§ 153.215 ESTABLISHMENT.
   To assist the Town Council in the administration and enforcement of its Land
Development Code, there is hereby established the Planning and Zoning Board,
the Local Planning Agency, the Land Development Regulation Commission, the
Board of Adjustment and the official town staff positions of Building Official
and Zoning Official.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007)
§ 153.216 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Planning and Zoning Board created. Pursuant to the authority of F.S.
Ch. 166, entitled the Municipal Home Rule Powers Act, the town hereby
designates and establishes the Planning and Zoning Board of the town, which
shall have the functions, powers and duties as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Composition of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board, also acting as the Local Planning
Agency, shall consist of five regular members in seats 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5; two
alternate members in seats 1 and 2; and an additional non-voting member who is
a representative of the County School District. The Town Council shall appoint
all regular and all alternate members of the Planning and Zoning Board. The
County School Board shall appoint the additional member of the Planning and
Zoning Board that serves as the representative of the County School District,
pursuant to the requirements mandated by F.S. § 163.3174. Unless the absence is
excused by the Planning and Zoning Board, the attendance of the school
district’s representative is required for all meetings of the Planning and
Zoning Board at which the Board considers rezonings that would, if approved,
increase residential density on the property that is the subject of the
application. The only qualifications for membership of the regular and
alternate members of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be either residency in
the town or ownership of real property within the town limits, or ownership of
shares of stock as a shareholder of the Briny Breezes, Inc. corporation, the
attainment of the age of majority, good moral character, and a willingness and
interest to serve on the Board.
      (2)   The members of the Board, other than the representative of the
school district, shall be placed in office as follows.
         (a)   Each year at the first meeting following the annual election,
the Town Council shall appoint the persons who will serve as members of the
Board as follows: in odd years, appointments for seats 1, 3, and 5, and
alternate seat 1 shall be made for a term of two years; in even years,
appointments for seats 2 and 4, and alternate seat 2 shall be made for a term
of two years. In order to effectuate the staggered seat terms, for calendar
year 2023, the first two-year appointments to seats 1, 3, and 5, and alternate
seat 1 shall be made; and in addition, one-year appointments to seats 2 and 4,
and alternate seat 2 shall also be made.
         (b)   Whenever the list of candidates presents the opportunity to do
so, the Town Council shall select the members of the Board from a list of
candidates, which shall be arranged in reference to the candidate’s residence
or ownership of real property in each of the several residential zoning
districts of the town. The Town Council and all property owners and residents
in the town may submit the names of interested parties to be included on said
list of candidates.
         (c)   Whenever the list of candidates presents the opportunity to do
so, the Town Council shall select four of the five regular members of the Board
on the basis of their individual residency or ownership of real property in one
of four residential zoning districts, so that one regular member each shall
either reside or own real property in Residential Zoning District I, District
II, District III and District IV of the town.
         (d)   The fifth regular member and the two alternate members of the
Board shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Town Council from the list
of candidates at large, which members may reside in any residential zoning
district of the town or own Briny Breezes, Inc. corporate shares.
         (e)   The alternate seat designated as seat number 1 shall have
priority over the alternate seat designated as seat number 2 for eligibility
for voting privileges. Alternate members may sit and participate at all Board
meetings for purposes of discussion but shall only have motion and voting
privileges when a regular member is absent and shall always count toward
establishing a quorum of members present.
   (C)   Officers. The Planning and Zoning Board shall elect a Chairperson and
a Vice Chairperson from among its regular members. The Board shall appoint a
Secretary who may be member of the Board, a town employee, or a volunteer.
   (D)   Meetings. The Planning and Zoning Board shall meet at regular
intervals to be determined by it and at such other times as the Chairperson of
the Board may determine. All meetings shall be public.
   (E)   Rules of conduct. The conduct of business by the Planning and Zoning
Board shall be governed by the Town of Briny Breezes Meeting Rules and
Procedures as set forth by Resolution 2022-02, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Records. The Planning and Zoning Board shall keep and maintain a
properly indexed record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determination, which record shall be a public record.
   (G)   Financial support. The town shall provide the required financial
support for the staffing and work of the Planning and Zoning Board, as the Town
Council shall determine to be necessary by budget appropriation.
   (H)   Functions, powers and duties. The functions, powers and duties of the
Planning and Zoning Board shall include and be in conformity with the
provisions of F.S. §§ 163.3161 et seq., as may be necessary to the proper
functioning of this Board under the Briny Breezes Land Development Code and all
the amendments thereto, and the Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act
including the preparation and recommendation for adoption of an evaluation and
appraisal report and amendments to the Comprehensive Plan for the town.
   (I)   Preparation of zoning changes. The Board shall have available for
processing and public hearing such zoning ordinances which the town may
require, which shall be in proper form and content for the Board to recommend
to the Town Council for adoption. Such zoning ordinances shall set the
boundaries to the various zoning districts and contain appropriate regulations
to be enforced therein.
   (J)   Hearings and recommendations. The Planning and Zoning Board shall hear
and make recommendations to the Town Council and/or the Board of Adjustment on
applications and project assignments for the following matters:
      (1)   Comprehensive Plan and Plan amendments when acting as the Local
Planning Agency;
      (2)   Evaluation and appraisal reports and amendments when acting as the
Local Planning Agency;
      (3)   Changes to the zoning ordinances and rezoning;
      (4)   Special permits;
      (5)   Site plan review of all development or subdivision requests;
      (6)   Transfer of development rights;
      (7)   Special exceptions permitted within each zoning district; and
      (8)   Variance requests.
   (K)   Recommending conditions. After completing its review and public
hearing of the applications on the matters within its jurisdiction, the
Planning and Zoning Board may recommend appropriate conditions, restrictions,
limitations and safeguards it deems necessary or desirable to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Ensure that the application would not generate undue noise,
excessive traffic, over crowding, nuisance, safety hazard or other adverse
impact;
      (2)   Maintain the present and future land use plan and/or use trend of
the subject area;
      (3)   Produce minimum visual pollution; and
      (4)   Allow adequate provisions for public requirements, including, but
not limited to, transportation, water supply, drainage and sanitation, and for
orderly growth.
   (L)   Authority of the Board. The actions, decisions and recommendations of
the Board shall not be final or binding on the Town Council but shall be
advisory only.
   (M)   Report by Board. Within 30 days after any application or referral for
a review, for a requested report or for a hearing regarding a Planning and
Zoning Board matter, the Board shall hold a public hearing, and record its
review, analysis and recommendations in written form. The Board shall promptly
forward same to the Town Council, which shall hold a public hearing thereon
within 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007; Ord. 1-08, passed 2-
28-2008; Ord. 3-2011, passed 12-20-2011; Ord. 01-2022, passed 4-28-2022)
§ 153.217 LOCAL PLANNING AGENCY.
   (A)   Local Planning Agency established.
      (1)   Generally. Pursuant to the authority of F.S. §§ 163.3161 et seq.,
entitled the “Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development
Act”, the town hereby designates and establishes the Local Planning Agency of
the town. Pursuant to F.S. § 163.3174, entitled “Local Planning Agency”, the
Town Council hereby appoints and designates the members of the Planning and
Zoning Board together with an additional non-voting member who is a
representative of the County School District, to serve as the members of the
Local Planning Agency of the town, which shall hereafter be referred to as the
LPA. The County School Board shall appoint the additional member of the Local
Planning Agency that serves as the representative of the County School
District, pursuant to the requirements mandated by F.S. § 163.3174. Unless the
absence is excused by the LPA, the attendance of the School District’s
representative shall be required for all meetings of the Local Planning Agency
at which the LPA considers Comprehensive Plan amendments that would, if
approved, increase residential density on the property that is the subject of
the application. This appointment is for all purposes required by the said
Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act for
the representative of the County School District and the members of the
Planning and Zoning Board to act and serve as the LPA in regard to the
Comprehensive Plan, Plan amendments and the preparation and amendments of the
Evaluation and Appraisal Report.
      (2)   Officers and minutes of the meetings. The LPA shall elect a
Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among its regular members. The LPA
shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a member of the LPA, the Town Clerk, a
contract worker or a volunteer, who shall keep the minutes of the meetings and
proceedings of the LPA. The Chairperson shall be responsible for the prompt
sending of a copy of the approved minutes of each meeting of the LPA to the
Town Council and to be available at the meeting of the Town Council to keep the
members of Town Council fully informed of the LPA’s meetings, work and related
activities.
      (3)   Meetings. The LPA shall meet at regular intervals to be determined
by it and at such other times as the Chairperson of the LPA shall determine.
All meetings shall be public.
      (4)   Rules of conduct. The conduct of business by the LPA shall be
governed by Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised, latest edition, and such
further rules as it may adopt
      (5)   Records. The LPA shall keep and maintain a properly indexed record
of its resolutions, reports, recommendations, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record.
   (B)   Dual function. Whenever the proper application of the law requires it,
the actions of the Planning and Zoning Board, together with the representative
of the school district, shall be made and performed as those of the LPA. All
powers and authority hereinafter specified for the LPA shall be equally proper
to and enjoyed by the Planning and Zoning Board in matters not related to the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Functions, powers and duties.
      (1)   Generally. The functions, powers and duties of the representative
of the school district and the Planning and Zoning Board acting as the LPA
shall be in conformity with the provisions of F.S. §§ 163.3161 et seq.,
entitled the “Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Act”
and as hereinafter set forth. The LPA shall also perform any other functions,
duties and responsibilities assigned to it by the Town Council or by general or
special law.
      (2)   Preparation of the Comprehensive Plan and amendments. The Town
Council, in cooperation with the LPA, may designate any agency, committee,
department or person to prepare the Comprehensive Plan or plan amendment, but
final recommendation of the adoption of such plan or plan amendment to the Town
Council shall be the responsibility of the LPA.
   (D)   Information gathering. The LPA shall acquire and maintain such
information and materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends,
present conditions and the forces at work which cause changes in these
conditions. Such information and material may include maps and photographs of
human- made and natural physical features of the areas concerned, statistics on
past trends and present conditions of population, property values, economic
base, land use and data important in determining the amount, direction and kind
of development to be expected in the area.
   (E)   Comprehensive Plan Program. The LPA shall have the general
responsibility for the conduct of the comprehensive planning program, be the
agency responsible for the preparation of the Comprehensive Plan, and make
recommendations to the Town Council regarding the adoption of such plan or
element or portion thereof.
   (F)   Monitor Comprehensive Plan. The LPA shall monitor and oversee the
effectiveness and status of the Comprehensive Plan and recommend to the Town
Council such changes in the Comprehensive Plan as may from time to time be
required, including the preparation of any periodic reports as may be required
by law.
   (G)   Review Land Development Code. The LPA, acting as the Land Development
Regulation Commission, shall review proposed Land Development Codes, or
amendments thereto and make recommendations to the Town Council as to the
consistency of the proposal with the adopted Comprehensive Plan or element or
portion thereof.
   (H)   Establish policies. The LPA shall establish principles and policies
for guiding action in the development of the town.
   (I)   Conduct public hearings.
      (1)   Generally. The LPA shall conduct such public hearings as may be
required to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and
maintenance of the Comprehensive Plan and such additional public hearings as
are specified under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Public participation in the comprehensive planning process; intent;
alternative dispute resolution.
         (a)   It is the intent of the town that the public participate in the
comprehensive planning process to the fullest extent possible. Towards this
end, the Town Council, the Local Planning Agency, the Land Development
Regulation Commission, and the Planning and Zoning Board of the town adopt
procedures contained in F.S. § 163.3181 by reference, as if fully set forth
herein, in order to provide effective public participation in the comprehensive
planning process and to provide real property owners with notice of all
official actions which will regulate the use of their property. The provisions
and procedures hereby adopted are the minimum requirements towards this end.
         (b)   During consideration of the proposed Comprehensive Plan or
amendments thereto by the Local Planning Agency or by the Town Council, the
procedures shall provide for broad dissemination of the proposals and
alternatives, opportunity for written comments, public hearings as provided
herein, provisions for open discussion, communications programs, information
services and consideration of and response to public comments. No amendment to
the Comprehensive Plan shall be adopted until after a public hearing with due
public notice at which citizens and parties having interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. At the public hearings, all persons interested shall
be heard for or against the proposal and any changes or revisions thereof. The
public hearings may be adjourned from time to time until the completion and
final adoption thereof.
         (c)   In the event that the Town Council considers undertaking a
publicly financed capital improvement project it shall use the procedures
herein set forth for the purpose of allowing public participation in the
decision and resolution of disputes. For the purpose of this chapter, a
PUBLICLY FINANCED CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT is hereby defined as a physical
structure or structures, the funding for construction, operation and
maintenance of which is financed entirely from public funds.
            1.   Prior to the date of a public hearing on the decision on
whether to proceed with the proposed project the Town Council shall publish
public notice of its intent to decide the issue according to the notice
procedures described by F.S. § 166.041(3)(c)2.b.
            2.   By the Town Council’s use of this process, an affected person
may not institute or intervene in an administrative hearing objecting to the
project as not consistent with the town’s Comprehensive Plan unless, and then
only to the extent to which, the affected person raised, through written or
oral comments, the same issues between the date of publication of the public
notice and the conclusion of the public hearing; however, this limitation shall
not apply to issues arising either from significant changes to the location,
type or use of the project, or to significant new information about the project
site which becomes known after the public hearing as a result of subsequent
site study and analysis, if required.
            3.   If an affected person requests an administrative hearing
pursuant to F.S. §§ 120.569 and 120.57, that person shall file the petition no
later than 30 days after the public hearing or no later than 30 days after the
change or new information is made available to the public, whichever is later.
Affected local governments, the state land planning agency or other affected
persons may intervene, if provided by law, and the provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act shall govern the proceedings and the final
disposition thereof.
         (d)   In the event that the town denies an owner’s request for an
amendment to the Comprehensive Plan which is applicable to the property of the
owner, the town shall afford an opportunity to the owner for informal mediation
or other alternative dispute resolution. The costs of the mediation or other
alternative dispute resolution shall be borne equally by the town and the
owner. If the owner requests mediation, the time for bringing a judicial action
shall be tolled until the completion of the mediation or 120 days, whichever is
earlier.
   (J)   Report by LPA. As promptly as possible, but at least within 30 days
after receipt from the Town Council or other official source of any application
or referral for a review, for a requested report or for a hearing regarding a
LPA matter, the LPA shall hold a public hearing, and record its review,
analysis and recommendations in written form. When the Town Council requests
the LPA to prepare recommendations for projects which are complex and require a
lengthy time for completion, such as preparation of the town’s evaluation and
appraisal report and amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, the LPA may hold a
series of meeting over an extended period as may be needed to accomplish the
entire task. In such instances, the LPA shall make its recommendations to the
Town Council on such portions of the protect as the LPA may complete in each
stage of its progress together with its final recommendation on the complete
document or amendment at the end of the LPA’S work. All recommendations by the
LPA shall be promptly forwarded same to the Town Council. Upon receipt of
recommendations from the LPA the Town Council shall make reasonable and timely
provision for taking action thereon.
   (K)   Special studies. The LPA shall make or cause to be made any necessary
special studies on the location, condition and adequacy of specific facilities
in the area. These may include, but are not limited to, studies on housing,
commercial and industrial conditions and facilities, public and private
utilities, and traffic, transportation and parking.
   (L)   Authority of LPA. The actions, decisions and recommendations of the
LPA shall not be final or binding on the Town Council but shall be advisory
only.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007; Ord. 1-08, passed 2-
28-2008)
§ 153.218 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Board of Adjustment created. Pursuant to the authority of F.S. Ch. 166
entitled the Municipal Home Rule Powers Act, the town hereby designates and
establishes the Board of Adjustment of the town, which shall have the
functions, powers and duties as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Composition. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of the six members
who serve as the Mayor and Council members of the Town Council. The Board shall
function under the same voting procedures and requirements applicable to the
Town Council. The members of the Town Council shall serve as members of the
Board during the duration of each of their terms of office as Mayor and Council
members, and thereafter their membership on the Board shall pass to their
respective successors in office on the Town Council.
   (C)   Functions, powers and duties. The functions, powers and duties of the
Board of Adjustment shall be to hear and determine appeal of administrative
decisions and decide applications for variances as hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   Appeal of administrative decisions. The Board of Adjustment shall have
the power and authority to hear and decide appeals brought by any person
aggrieved by any administrative decision interrupting the Land Development
Code. Such administrative appeals shall be processed on a summary basis and
shall be made by the aggrieved party’s direct application to the Board in such
cases where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision
or determination made by the town’s Building Official or Zoning Official in the
enforcement of the Land Development Code.
   (E)   Authority of Board on administrative appeals. All decisions of the
Board shall be by a motion. The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be
rendered within 30 days after review and shall be final and binding action on
all parties as to administrative decisions.
   (F)   Deciding applications for variances. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the power and authority to hear and decide applications for a variance,
brought by any person submitting an application showing grounds for such
relief. The Board is authorized, upon application in specific cases, to issue a
variance from the terms of the Land Development Code as will not be contrary to
the public interest, where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this code will result in unnecessary hardship; however,
the Board of Adjustment shall not be empowered or authorised to grant a
variance to permit a use in a zone or district in which such use is not
permitted by this code.
   (G)   Authority of Board of Adjustment on variances. In exercising the above
mentioned powers, said Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made. The decision of the Board of Adjustment
shall be rendered within 30 days after review and such decision by the Board
shall be final and binding town action on all parties thereto.
   (H)   Meetings and procedures are public. All meetings of the Board of
Adjustment shall be advertised public hearings open to the public.
   (I)   Testimony of witnesses. The Board Chairperson, or Vice Chairperson, or
acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses
and their testimony concerning the matters of the proceedings in the same
manner prescribed in the Circuit Court.
   (J)   Minutes of proceedings. Minutes will be kept of all public meetings
and proceedings of the Board and shall include and state the vote of each
member on each question. The motions made shall state the reason upon which it
is made, and such reason or reasons shall be based upon the prescribed guides
and standards of good planning and zoning principles. If a member is absent or
abstains from voting, the minutes shall so indicate.
   (K)   Public records. The Board shall keep accurate records of its public
hearings, together with its minutes and resolutions, and the same shall be open
for public inspection at reasonable times and hours.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.219 OFFICIAL TOWN EMPLOYEE STAFF POSITIONS.
   (A)   Positions created. The staff positions of Building Official and Zoning
Official of the town are hereby created.
   (B)   Building Official’s duties. The Building Official shall assist the
Town Council in the performance of the duties of the office to supervise the
administration and enforcement of the Building and Construction Codes of the
town.
   (C)   Zoning Official’s duties. The Zoning Official shall assist the Town
Council in the performance of the duties of the office to supervise the
administration of this chapter, to enforce the Zoning Code, and to monitor the
procedures for all applications for development approval thereunder.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991; Ord. 1-07, passed 4-26-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.230 ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement responsibility. The Town Council, by its own action, or
through the Mayor, the Building Official, the Zoning Official or other
designated town employee, shall be responsible for enforcing and administering
the Land Development Code. The town shall arrange for the employment of those
persons necessary for the efficient and effective administration and
enforcement of this code.
   (B)   Persons chargeable. In the prosecution of violations of the code, the
town may proceed against the following persons who shall be chargeable with
such offenses, including:
      (1)   The owner, agent, lessor, lessee, trustee, contractor or any other
person or corporation using or occupying the land, building or premises where
such violation has been committed or shall exist;
      (2)   Any person who knowingly commits, takes part or assists in such
violation; and
      (3)   Any person who maintains any land, building or premises in which
such violation shall exist.
   (C)   Other legal remedies. In addition to the criminal penalties and
enforcement procedures provided above, the Town Council may authorize the
institution of any lawful civil action or proceeding in the town’s name and
behalf, to prevent, restrain or abate any of the following actions:
      (1)   The unlawful construction, erection, reconstruction, alteration,
rehabilitation, expansion, continuation or use of any building or structure;
      (2)   The unlawful occupancy of such building, structure, land or water;
and
      (3)   Each and every illegal act, unlawful conduct and prohibited
business or use, in, of, upon and about such premises.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.231 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to issue cease and desist orders
in the form of written official notices given to the owner of the subject
building, property or premises, or to his or her agent, lessee, tenant,
trustee, contractor or to any person or corporation using the land, building or
premises where such violation has been committed or shall exist.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.232 BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Control of issuance. No building permit or certificate of occupancy
and use shall be issued by the town for any purpose, except in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and other applicable ordinances and laws.
   (B)   Revocation. The town may revoke a building permit or certificate of
occupancy, and use in those cases where determination has been duly made that
false statements or misrepresentations existed as to material fact(s) in the
application or plans upon which the permit or certificate was based.
   (C)   Suspension. The town may suspend a building permit or certificate of
occupancy and use in those cases where determination has been duly made that an
error or omission on either the part of the permit applicant or government
agency existed in the processing or issuance or issuance of the permit or
certificate approval. A valid permit or certificate shall be issued in place of
the incorrect permit or certificate only after the correction of the error or
omission.
   (D)   Notice of administrative decisions. All decisions by town employees
concerning the issuance, revocation or suspension of a building permit, or
concerning the proper interpretations to be given to the Land Development Code,
shall be stated in an official written notice to the permit applicant or
holder.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
§ 153.233 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals of decisions by aggrieved persons. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Building Official or Zoning Official regarding the
interpretation or application of this subchapter may have such decisions
reviewed on a summary basis by the Board of Adjustment of the town, pursuant to
the procedure for same so made and provided. Such appeal shall be scheduled for
hearing at the next regular Town Council meeting, provided that notice of the
proposed appeal is given to the Town Clerk at least ten days prior to such
meeting.
   (B)   Exhaustion of remedies and court review. Persons aggrieved by any
order, requirement, decision or determination of any administrative official of
the town, shall not apply to the court for relief unless they have first
exhausted the remedies provided for herein, and taken all available steps
provided in this subchapter. It is the intention of the town that all steps as
provided by this subchapter shall be taken before any application is made to a
court for relief; and no application shall be made to a court for relief except
from resolution, ordinance or order adopted by the governing body, pursuant to
this subchapter. Such decision may be reviewed by the filing of a petition for
writ of certiorari, in accordance with the procedure and within the time
provided by court rule for the review of the rulings of any commission or
board; and such time shall commence to run from the date of decision sought to
be reviewed.
(Ord. 1-90, passed 1-31-1991)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Res.  6-22-  Accepting easement deed of four parcels of land from Briny Breezes, Inc.
78-4  1978
2-84  6-22-  Annexes 0.083 acres of land 220.2 feet north of the centerline of Cordova
      1978   Avenue
Res.  1-28-  Accepting quitclaim deed from Florida Department of Transportation for
2016- 2016   portion of Old Ocean Boulevard for the purpose of clarifying the town’s
03           jurisdiction over road
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-67     2-9-1967    Grants franchise to Florida Power and Light Company
1-70     11-19-1970  Grants franchise to Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph
                     Company
1-82     2-11-1982   Grants non-exclusive franchise to Fairbanks Cable of
                     Florida, Inc.
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1-93  10-28- Agreement with Town of Ocean Ridge for police and fire protection
      1993
Res.  5-10-  Accepting ownership of the water and sewer systems serving the residents and
94-8  1994   occupants of the town from Briny Breezes, Inc. and authorizing the continued
             operation and maintenance of the municipal utility system
Res.  - -    Agreement with Briny Breezes, Inc. for collection of bills for water and sewer
94-12 1994   service due to the town from the consumers of the town’s utility system and for
             the maintenance of the system
Res.  12-26- Agreement with Hutcheon Engineers and Associates, Inc. for post- disaster
96-11 1996   recovery planning and for professional planning services
Res.  8-5-   Agreement with Briny Breezes, Inc. to collect town utility bills for water and
99-2  1999   sewer service
07-   9-18-  Agreement with City of Boynton Beach for daily police services
114   2007
05-07 9-27-  Agreement with City of Boynton Beach for police protection
      2007
Res.  3-26-  Agreement with Briny Breezes, Inc. to provide municipal traffic control
2009- 2009   jurisdiction over the private streets within the town
4
2-    9-16-  Agreement with Town of Ocean Ridge for law enforcement services
2010  2010
2-    10-25- Amends Ord. 2-2010; agreement with Town of Ocean Ridge for law enforcement
2011  2011   services
2-    9-12-  Agreement with Town of Ocean Ridge for law enforcement and police protection
2013  2013   services
Res.         Agreement with Palm Beach County for the town to participate in common with
2014- 6-26-  Palm Beach County in the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program,
10    2014   Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) Program and Home Investment Partnerships (HOME)
             Program for the fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017
Res.  9-25-  Agreement with Briny Breezes Corporation as an independent contractor to
2014- 2014   administer and disburse the town’s parking permits for the preferred parking
25           zone on the Grassy Swale Area on the north side of Briny Breezes Boulevard
1-    3-2-   Amends Ord. 2-2013; provides for orderly change in named person holding
2015  2015   position of Town Marshal
Res.  1-28-  Accepting and approving the extension of the agreement with Alberni, Caballero,
2016- 2016   Fierman, LLP as certified public accountants for performing the audit for FY
01           2015
Res.         Accepting and approving an interlocal agreement by the town among Palm Beach
2016- 4-28-  County, the School Board of Palm Beach County, and the signatory municipalitie
07    2016   s pertaining to the shared distribution and use of the one cent local
             government infrastructure surtax
Res.         Accepting and approving an interlocal agreement by the town among Palm Beach
2016- 5-26-  County, the School Board of Palm Beach County, and the signatory municipalitie
08    2016   s pertaining to the shared distribution and use of the one cent local
             government infrastructure surtax
             Accepting and approving an interlocal agreement with the city of Boynton Beach,
3-    9-8-   for the city of Boynton Beach to provide fire rescue and emergency medical
2016  2016   services for the town within the territorial boundaries of the town for a
             period of 12 years
             Accepting and approving an interlocal agreement with the adjoining city of
4-    9-22-  Boynton Beach for Boynton Beach Police Department to provide law enforcement
2016  2016   and police protection services for the town within the territorial boundaries
             of the town for a period of three years
Res.  11-17- Approving the agreement for services with C.A.P. Government on the material
2016- 2016   terms approved by the Town Council
16
Res.         Accepting and approving the agreement between the Phillips & Jordan, Inc., as a
2017- 6-22-  secondary provider for the collection and transport of hurricane generated
6     2017   debris with the town pursuant to the agreement between the SWA and Phillips &
             Jordan, Inc.
Res.  6-22-  Appointing Jose Martin Marino as an independent contractor as the bookkeeper of
2017- 2017   the town
09
Res.  10-26- Accepting and approving the extension of the agreement with C.A.P. Government,
2017- 2017   Inc., as the town’s Building Official and the town’s building inspection and
20           plans review service provider for FY 2018
Res.  1-25-  Accepting and approving the administrativ e services agreement between ICMA
2018- 2018   Retirement Corporation and the town
3
Res.  4-26-  Renewing and readopting the independent contractor agreement between Jim
2018- 2018   Phillippi and the town for the position of town maintenance contractor and
06           meter reader
Res.  5-24-
2018- 2018   Approving the statewide mutual aid agreement with the State of Florida
08
Res.  1-24-  Approving the Federally-Funded Subaward and Grant Agreement (Contract Number:
2019- 2019   Z0638)
01
Res.  6-27-  Authorizing the town to join with other local governmental units as a
2019- 2019   participant in the Florida Municipal Investment Trust for the purpose of
03           purchasing shares in the Trust
2019- 7-25-  Authorizing a building department administration services agreement with Briny
05    2019   Breezes, Inc. for processing of building permit applications
2019- 8-22-  Authorizing an agreement with the Town of Ocean Ridge for the provision of law
06    2019   enforcement services by the Town of Ocean Ridge
2019- 12-5-  Approving and adopting the 2020 Revised Palm Beach County Local Mitigation
15    2019   Strategy Plan
2021- 7-22-  Approving a second agreement with C.A.P. Government, Inc. for building
06    2021   official, building inspection and plan review services and for mobile home
             inspector services
Res.  9-28-  Renewing and readopting the independent contractor agreement between Jim
2023- 2023   Phillippi and the town for the position of town maintenance contractor and
07           meter reader
Res.  1-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign an interlocal agreement with Palm Beach County
2025- 2025   and other participating municipalities to redetermine, readopt and ratify the
02           existing distribution formula for six cent local option fuel tax
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO FLORIDA STATUTES
F.S. Section Code Section
F.S. Section                             Code Section
Title XXII                               70.04
50.041                                   35.12
50.051                                   35.12
55.03                                    112.02
Ch. 97 through 106                       32.01
Ch. 98                                   32.02
100.151                                  32.11
100.361                                  Charter, Article III, Sec.
                                         3.12
101.657                                  32.01
112.061(6)                               112.02
112.061(7)                               112.02
112.061(8)                               112.02
120.569                                  153.217
120.57                                   153.217
Ch. 161, Part III, 161.52 through 161.58 150.01
161.053                                  150.02,
                                         151.121
161.055                                  151.057
161.54                                   150.02,
                                         151.130
161.55                                   153.126
161.141                                  151.057
162.03                                   35.02
162.06(4)                                35.10
162.09(1)                                35.08
162.09(3)                                35.08
162.12                                   35.07
162.22                                   10.99
163.3161 et seq.                         153.216,
                                         153.217
163.3174                                 153.216,
                                         153.217
163.3181                                 153.217
163.3184                                 153.194
163.3191                                 153.194
163.3202                                 153.001
163.3220                                 153.068
                                         Ch. 30,
Ch. 166                                  153.001,
                                         153.216,
                                         153.218
166.031(6)                               Charter, Article III, Sec.
                                         3.10
166.041(3)(c)2.b.                        153.217
166.201                                  34.15
166.231                                  34.15
Ch. 171                                  Charter, Article II, Sec.
                                         2.2
Ch. 177                                  153.049
Ch. 177.011 through 177.151, Part 1      153.049
Ch. 177.091                              153.048
203.012(3)                               112.02
203.012(7)                               112.02
Ch. 252                                  94.05
Ch. 286                                  Charter, Article III, Sec.
                                         3.11
                                         70.01,
                                         70.04,
Ch. 316                                  71.01,
                                         71.03,
                                         75.05
316.008(1)(a)                            73.01
316.008(1)(c)                            70.09,
                                         70.10
316.008(1)(u)                            70.16
316.0745 et seq.                         70.06
316.1301                                 70.11
316.172                                  70.13
316.172(3)                               70.14
316.1945                                 73.01
316.195                                  73.01
316.1995                                 70.15
316.2035                                 70.16
316.2035(1)                              70.17
316.2065                                 72.02
                                         71.01,
Ch. 318                                  71.03,
                                         71.05,
                                         Ch. 76, Sch. III
320.01                                   151.121
320.8249                                 151.133
320.832                                  153.125
320.8325                                 153.125
366.02                                   151.052
381.986(11)                              113.01
320.8325                                 153.125
337.401                                  112.01,
                                         112.02
364.02(12)                               112.02
373.036                                  151.057
381.0065                                 151.057
Ch. 386                                  130.07
Ch. 472                                  153.047
Ch. 553                                  153.121,
                                         153.125
Ch. 553, Part 1                          153.021
553.73(5)                                151.100
553.73(10)(k)                            151.052
604.50                                   151.052
Ch. 650                                  30.01
650.02                                   30.01
Ch. 683                                  92.02
790.15                                   130.11
                                         70.01,
                                         70.02,
                                         130.01,
                                         130.02,
790.33                                   130.05,
                                         130.06,
                                         131.01 -
                                         131.03,
                                         132.01,
                                         132.02
Ch. 791                                  130.11
Ch. 796                                  132.06
796.01                                   132.06
796.06                                   132.06
800.03                                   132.05
843.01 et seq.                           130.04
843.08                                   130.03
Ch. 847                                  132.04
Ch. 849                                  132.03
849.093                                  111.01
849.0931                                 111.01
Ch. 870                                  94.33
870.041 through 870.047                  94.32
870.042(2)                               94.32
870.044                                  94.32
870.45                                   94.32
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code Section 2016 Code Section
1977 Code Section 2016 Code Section
1-4               10.05
2-27              30.15
2-28              30.02
2-29              30.03
2-30              30.04
2-31              30.05
2-32              30.06
2-33              30.07
2-34              30.08
4-1               111.01
9-1               92.01,
                  92.99
9-16              92.02
9-17              92.99
12-1              130.01
12-2              130.03
12-3              130.04
12-4              130.05
12-5              130.06
12-6              130.07
12-7              130.08
12-8              130.09
12-10             130.11
12-11             130.99
12-23             131.01
12-24             131.02
12-24             131.03
12-37             132.01
12-38             132.02
12-39             132.03
12-40             132.04
12-41             132.05
12-42             132.06
12-43             132.07
15-1              93.01
16-1              70.01
16-1.1            130.02
16-2              70.03
16-3              70.04
16-4              70.05
16-5              70.06
16-6              70.07
16-7              70.08
16-8              70.09
16-9              70.10
16-10             70.11
16-11             Ch. 76, Sch. II
16-12             Ch. 76, Sch. I
16-13             70.13
16-14             70.14
16-15             70.15
16-17             70.16
16-18             70.17
16-19             70.18
16-31             71.01
16-32             71.02
16-33             71.03
16-34             71.04
16-35             71.05
16-36             71.06
16-37             71.07
16-38             71.08
16-50             72.01
16-51             72.02
16-52             72.03
16-53             72.04
16-54             72.05
16-55             72.06
16-67             73.01
16-68             73.02
16-69             73.08
16-70             73.03
16-71             73.04
16-72             73.05
16-73             73.06
16-74             73.07
16-75             73.09
16-76             73.10
16-77             73.11
16-88             74.01
16-89             74.02
16-90             74.03
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
78-4     6-22-1978   TSO, Table I
94-8     5-10-1994   TSO, Table III
94-12    - -1994     TSO, Table III
96-11    12-26-1996  TSO, Table III
99-2     8-5-1999    TSO, Table III
03-02    12-18-2003  51.02
2009-4   3-26-2009   TSO, Table III
2013-8   9-26-2013   153.124
2014-10  6-26-2014   TSO, Table III
2014-25  9-25-2014   TSO, Table III
2015-4   6-25-2015   153.124
2016-01  1-28-2016   TSO, Table III
2016-03  1-28-2016   TSO, Table I
2016-07  4-28-2016   TSO, Table III
2016-08  5-26-2016   TSO, Table III
2016-16  11-17-2016  TSO, Table III
2017-6   6-22-2017   TSO, Table III
2017-09  6-22-2017   TSO, Table III
2017-20  10-26-2017  TSO, Table III
2018-3   1-25-2018   TSO, Table III
2018-4   2-22-2018   153.124
2018-06  4-26-2018   TSO, Table III
2018-08  5-24-2018   TSO, Table III
2018-09  5-24-2018   153.124
2018-17  - -         153.124
2019-01  1-24-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-03  6-27-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-05  7-25-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-06  8-22-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-15  12-5-2019   TSO, Table III
2019-16  12-5-2019   51.02
2020-07  9-24-2020   153.127
2020-11  9-24-2020   51.02
2020-12  10-22-2020  31.03
2021-01  2-25-2021   34.30
2021-06  7-22-2021   TSO, Table III
2021-10  9-23-2021   51.02
2023-07  9-28-2023   TSO, Table III
2025-02  1-23-2025   TSO, Table III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     70.06 -
                     70.11,
                     70.13 -
                     70.17,
                     72.01 -
                     72.06,
                     73.01,
1-63     5-1-1963    73.02;
                     Ch. 76, Sch. II;
                     92.01,
                     130.01,
                     130.03 -
                     130.09 ,
                     130.99,
                     132.03 -
                     132.07
5-63     11-27-1963  Ch. 76, Sch. I
2-65     11-18-1965  31.01
1-67     2-9-1967    TSO, Table II
2-67     9-27-1967   110.01,
                     110.99
67-2     12-4-1967   111.01
1-70     11-19-1970  TSO, Table II
1-72     3-23-1973   30.01 -
                     30.08
3-73     7-9-1973    34.01
                     90.01 -
6-73     1-24-1974   90.07,
                     90.99
7-73     1-24-1974   91.01,
                     91.99
1-74     11-22-1974  73.08
                     70.03 -
                     70.05,
                     70.18,
                     73.02 -
2-75     4-24-1975   73.06,
                     73.09 -
                     73.11,
                     74.01 -
                     74.03
                     110.15 -
5-75     11-26-1975  110.18,
                     110.99
7-76     5-27-1976   92.99
5-76     9-23-1976   71.01 -
                     71.08
7-76     10-21-1976  130.12
7-76     11-23-1976  70.16
2-1979   8-23-1979   93.01
1-82     2-11-1982   TSO, Table II
                     52.01 -
                     52.11,
                     52.25 -
1-84     8-23-1984   52.36,
                     52.50 -
                     52.56,
                     52.99
2-84     9-27-1984   TSO, Table I
                     50.01 -
2-85     7-25-1985   50.08,
                     50.99
3-86     12-18-1986  150.01,
                     150.02
                     91.15 -
2-87     1-28-1988   91.17,
                     91.19,
                     91.20
1-88     7-28-1988   92.02,
                     92.99
                     153.001 -
                     153.009,
                     153.020 -
                     153.032,
                     153.045 -
                     153.050,
                     153.065 -
                     153.070,
                     153.085 -
                     153.094,
                     153.105,
1-90     1-31-1991   153.106,
                     153.120 -
                     153.125,
                     153.140 -
                     153.148,
                     153.160 -
                     153.171,
                     153.185 -
                     153.201,
                     153.215 -
                     153.219,
                     153.230 -
                     153.233
1-93     10-28-1993  TSO, Table III
                     51.01,
1-94     6-23-1994   51.02,
                     51.04 -
                     51.08
1-95     4-27-1995   153.126
1-96     7-25-1996   153.021,
                     153.028
                     51.01 ,
2-96     10-24-1996  51.02,
                     51.04
1-97     3-27-1997   153.027
                     34.15 -
3-97     6-26-1997   34.25,
                     34.99
4-97     9-11-1997   34.26
1-98     4-23-1998   73.99
2-98     9-23-1998   32.01 -
                     32.22
1-99     5-27-1999   153.032,
                     153.122
4-00     1-25-2001   112.01,
                     112.02
1-02     5-23-2002   Ch. 76, Sch. I
4-03     11-26-2003  153.123 -
                     153.125
4-04     1-27-2005   32.01
                     153.065,
                     153.066,
                     153.190,
1-07     4-26-2007   153.194,
                     153.215 -
                     153.217,
                     153.219
07-114   9-18-2007   TSO, Table III
05-07    9-27-2007   TSO, Table III
                     33.01 -
7-07     12-20-2007  33.05;
                     Ch. 33, App. A
                     153.189,
1-08     2-28-2008   153.194,
                     153.216,
                     153.217
                     153.021,
                     153.032,
2-08     9-25-2008   153.121,
                     153.122,
                     153.125
4-2008   10-23-2008  31.02
2-2009   12-17-2009  153.124
1-2010   5-27-2010   153.032,
                     153.122
2-2010   9-16-2010   TSO, Table III
                     70.01,
                     70.02,
                     130.01,
                     130.02,
                     130.05,
1-2011   10-25-2011  130.06,
                     130.11,
                     131.01 -
                     131.03,
                     132.01,
                     132.02
2-2011   10-25-2011  TSO, Table III
3-2011   12-20-2011  153.216
1-2012   3-22-2012   153.124,
                     153.125
                     33.01 -
3-2012   11-29-2012  33.05,
                     34.99;
                     Ch. 33, App. B
2-2013   9-12-2013   TSO, Table III
3-2013   12-19-2013  152.01
1-2014   9-25-2014   153.032,
                     153.122
1-2015   3-2-2015    TSO, Table III
2-2015   5-28-2015   75.01 -
                     75.05
3-2015   8-7-2015    32.06,
                     32.12
                     151.001 -
                     151.006,
                     151.020 -
                     151.026,
                     151.035 -
                     151.043,
                     151.050 -
                     151.057,
                     151.075 -
                     151.078,
4-2015   9-24-2015   151.085 -
                     151.090,
                     151.100 -
                     151.102,
                     151.104  -
                     151.107,
                     151.115 -
                     151.117,
                     151.120,
                     151.121,
                     151.130 -
                     151.136
1-2016   5-26-2016   Ch. 76, Sch. III
2-2016   9-8-2016    Adopting Ordinance
3-2016   9-8-2016    TSO, Table III
4-2016   9-22-2016   TSO, Table III
6-2016   12-22-2016  32.12
7-2016   12-22-2016  31.02
1-2017   8-24-2017   151.022
2-2017   9-28-2017   31.03
3-2017   11-30-2017  32.12
                     153.027,
4-2017   1-25-2018   153.028,
                     153.088,
                     153.124
5-2017   12-28-2017  35.01 -
                     35.14
1-2018   2-22-2018   113.01
                     153.021,
                     153.028,
01-2020  5-28-2020   153.120,
                     153.121,
                     153.123 -
                     153.127
02-2020  5-28-2020   153.032
                     94.01 -
03-2020  5-28-2020   94.05,
                     94.31 -
                     94.33
01-2021  5-27-2021   153.140 -
                     153.148
02-2021  4-22-2021   35.05,
                     35.08
03-2021  10-28-2021  32.01 -
                     32.22
01-2022  4-28-2022   153.216
03-2022  6-23-2022   130.10,
                     130.11
04-2022  10-27-2022  35.15,
                     35.16
05-2022  9-22-2022   32.01 -
                     32.22
06-2022  1-26-2023   91.99,
                     130.99
                     153.021,
                     153.022,
01-2023  5-25-2023   153.024,
                     153.025,
                     153.027,
                     153.0285
                     91.15 -
                     91.17,
01-2024  9-26-2024   91.19,
                     91.20,
                     91.99,
                     92.01
02-2024  12-12-2024  150.01,
                     150.02
                     151.001 -
                     151.006,
                     151.020 -
                     151.026,
                     151.035 -
                     151.043,
                     151.050 -
                     151.057,
                     151.075 -
                     151.078,
03-2024  12-12-2024  151.085 -
                     151.090,
                     151.100 -
                     151.102,
                     151.104 -
                     151.107,
                     151.115 -
                     151.117,
                     151.120,
                     151.121,
                     151.130 -
                     151.136
                    
 
 
