CITY OF LAKE MARY, FLORIDA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-46 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 1703, passed 6-20-24
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
CITY COMMISSION
MAYOR            David J. Mealor
COMMISSIONER     Jordan S. Smith
COMMISSIONER     George F. Duryea
COMMISSIONER     Colleen Taylor
COMMISSIONER     Justin York
MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS
CITY MANAGER     Kevin L. Smith
CITY ATTORNEY    Darren J. Elkind
CITY CLERK       Amber Branton
FINANCE DIRECTOR Brent Mason
 
CHARTER
   Section
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I: CORPORATE NAME
   
1.01   City of Lake Mary
ARTICLE II: TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
   
2.01a   Boundaries of city
   
2.01b   Intent of Article II
   
2.02   Annexation
ARTICLE III: POWERS OF THE CITY
   
3.01   All powers possible
   
3.02   Shall be liberally construed
   
3.03   May exercise jointly
ARTICLE IV: CITY COMMISSION
   
4.01   Mayor and Commission
   
4.02   General powers and duties
   
4.03   Powers and duties of Mayor
   
4.04   Deputy Mayor
   
4.05   Prohibitions
   
4.06   Compensation; expenses
   
4.07   Vacancies
   
4.08   Forfeiture of office
   
4.09   Filling of vacancies
   
4.10   Judge of qualifications
   
4.11   Investigations
   
4.12   Independent audit
   
4.13   Meetings
   
4.14   Rules and journal
   
4.15   Voting
ARTICLE V: COMMISSION SEATS
ARTICLE VI: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE
   
6.01   City elections
   
6.02   Commencement of term
   
6.03   Length of term
   
6.04   Qualified voters
   
6.05   Adoption of election procedures
   
6.06   Non-partisan elections
   
6.07   Multiple candidates
ARTICLE VII: CITY MANAGER
   
7.01   Appointment; qualifications
   
7.02   Removal
   
7.03   Powers and duties
ARTICLE VIII: CITY CLERK
ARTICLE IX: FINANCE DIRECTOR
ARTICLE X: CITY ATTORNEY
ARTICLE XI: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
   
11.01   Establishment of additional departments, etc.
ARTICLE XII: ORDINANCES
   
12.01   Action requiring an ordinance
   
12.02   Ordinances in general
   
12.03   Authentication and recording
   
12.04   Codification of ordinances
ARTICLE XIII: FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
   
13.01   Fiscal year
   
13.02   Submission of budget and budget message
   
13.03   Commission action on budget
   
13.04   Public records
   
13.05   Amendments after adoption
ARTICLE XIV: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
   
14.01   Initiative
   
14.02   Referendum
   
14.03   Recall
   
14.04   Commencement of proceedings; petitioner's committee; affidavit
   
14.05   Petitions
   
14.06   Procedure after filing
   
14.07   Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinance
   
14.08   Action on petitions
   
14.09   Result of election
ARTICLE XV: CHARTER AMENDMENTS
   
15.01   Initiation by ordinance
   
15.02   Initiation by petition
ARTICLE XVI: TRANSITION SCHEDULE
   
16.01   Ordinance preserved
   
16.02   Rights of officers
   
16.03   Pending matters
   
16.04   Effective date of new charter
ARTICLE XVII: SEPARABILITY
   
17.01   Invalidity of charter provision or application
ARTICLE XVIII: CONFLICTS
PREAMBLE
   Under authority conferred by the Constitution of the State of Florida, the
people of the City of Lake Mary enact this Charter, as may be amended from time
to time, as the law of the City for the purpose of protecting and enhancing the
health, safety, environment, and general welfare of the people; to enable
municipal government to provide services and meet the needs of the people
efficiently; to allow fair and equitable participation of all persons in the
affairs of the City; to provide for transparency, accountability, and ethics in
governance and civil service; to foster fiscal responsibility; to promote
prosperity and to meet the broad needs for a healthy, progressive city.
(Amendment approved by voters l-31-12)
ARTICLE I: CORPORATE NAME
SECTION 1.01 CITY OF LAKE MARY.
   The municipality hereby established shall be known as the City of Lake Mary,
Florida.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82)
ARTICLE II: TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES
SECTION 2.01.A BOUNDARIES OF CITY.
   The territorial boundaries of the City of Lake Mary, Florida, shall consist
of the boundaries of the city as established by Chapter 73-522, Laws of
Florida, Article II, Sec. 2.01, and in addition thereto all lands annexed by
the City of Lake Mary, Florida, subsequent to July 6, 1973, and prior to the
effective date of this Charter.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82)
SECTION 2.01.B INTENT OF ARTICLE II.
   The intent of this article is to establish, ratify and confirm the
boundaries of the City of Lake Mary, Florida, as established by Chapter 67-
1079, Laws of Florida, 1967, and as extended by annexation proceedings of the
City of Lake Mary to the effective date of this Charter.
   All ordinances of annexation of the City of Lake Mary heretofore adopted and
as may be adopted prior to the effective date of this Charter are hereby
incorporated herein and the lands described in such ordinances, together with
the boundaries of the city as described in Chapter 67-1079, Laws of Florida,
1967, are hereby declared to be the corporate limits of the City of Lake Mary,
Florida.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82)
SECTION 2.02 ANNEXATION.
   The corporate limits of the City of Lake Mary may be revised as provided by
law.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82)
ARTICLE III: POWERS OF THE CITY
SECTION 3.01 ALL POWERS POSSIBLE.
   The City shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the
constitution and laws of the State of Florida as fully and completely as though
they were specifically enumerated in this Charter.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 3.02 SHALL BE LIBERALLY CONSTRUED.
   The powers of the City under this Charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the City, and the specific mention of particular powers in the Charter
shall not be construed as limiting in any way any general power stated in this
article or granted by the constitution or laws of the State of Florida.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 3.03 MAY EXERCISE JOINTLY.
   The City may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and
may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation, by
contract or otherwise, with any one or more states or civil divisions or
agencies thereof, or the United States or any agency thereof.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82)
ARTICLE IV: CITY COMMISSION
SECTION 4.01 MAYOR AND COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be a City Commission composed of a Mayor and four City
Commissioners elected by the qualified voters of the city.
   (B)   Only qualified voters of the city shall be eligible to hold the office
of Mayor or City Commissioner. Each candidate seeking the office of Mayor or
City Commissioner shall be a qualified elector and shall have resided within
the city limits for over one consecutive year immediately prior to the time for
qualifying for office.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; Amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 4.02 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the city, except as otherwise provided by law or this Charter,
shall be vested in the City Commission. The Commission shall provide for the
exercise of said power, and for the performance of all duties and obligations
imposed on the City by law.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor of the City of Lake Mary, Florida is the ceremonial head of the
City, shall serve as Chairperson during City Commission meetings, and shall
serve as the head of City government for purposes of execution of all legal
documents.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.04 DEPUTY MAYOR.
   The City Commission by a majority vote, shall elect from among its
membership a Deputy Mayor who shall serve as Mayor during the absence or
disability of the Mayor. If a vacancy in the office of Mayor occurs, the Deputy
Mayor shall serve as Mayor until the next regular election, at which a Mayor
shall be elected to complete the original unexpired term. At such time, the
Deputy Mayor shall cease to serve as Mayor and shall resume the office of
commissioner/deputy mayor to which he was elected.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Interference with Daily Operational Administration. Except for the
purpose of inquiries and investigations under Section
4.11, the Commission or its members shall deal with city officers and employees
who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager solely
through the City Manager, and neither the Commission nor its members shall give
orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
   (B)   No present or former elected city official shall hold any compensated
appointive city office or employment until one year after the expiration of the
term for which elected or the conclusion of that elected City official's
service in the elected office, whichever event shall first occur. This
restriction shall not apply to service upon any adjudicatory or advisory board
of the City.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 4.06 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   The Commission may by ordinance establish and provide for the compensation
of the Mayor and its members and by the ordinance from time to time increase or
decrease any such compensation as may be established.
   An ordinance establishing, increasing or decreasing compensation may be
adopted at any time, without limitation; however, in no event shall any
establishment of compensation or any increase in compensation become effective
prior to the first day of the first month following the first regular election
of the city subsequent to the adoption of such ordinance.
   The Commission will provide by ordinance for the authorization and
reimbursement of expenses incurred by its members in the performance of their
respective duties.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.07 VACANCIES.
   The office of a member of the Commission shall become vacant upon said
member's death, resignation, or removal from office as authorized by law or
this Charter.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.08 FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   A member of the Commission shall forfeit the office, if said member:
   (a)   Lacks at any time during the term of office any qualifications for the
office prescribed by this Charter or by law;
   (b)   Violates any express prohibition of this Charter;
   (c)   Is convicted of a felony;
   (d)   If a member of the Commission shall miss three consecutive regularly
scheduled Commission meetings, an automatic review shall be conducted at the
next regularly scheduled Commission meeting and said member may be declared to
have forfeited office by reason of absence from meetings.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.09 FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   By a majority vote of all of its remaining members, the City Commission may
appoint a qualified voter who has resided within the City limits over one
consecutive year immediately prior to the appointment to fill a vacancy created
pursuant to Section
4.07 and
4.08 on the Commission, if the unexpired term is less than 10 months until the
next regular election, whichever occurs first, at which a person shall be
elected to complete the original term. If the unexpired term is greater than 10
months, a Special Election shall be held as soon as feasible but no later than
6 months of the vacancy occurring. The office of Mayor, however, shall be
filled as provided by Section
4.04.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 4.10 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Commission shall be the judge of the election and qualifications of its
members and of the grounds for forfeiture of their office and for that purpose
shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require the
production of evidence. A member charged with conduct constituting grounds for
forfeiture of this office shall be so notified by certified mail and shall be
entitled to a public hearing on demand, and notice of such hearing shall be
published in one or more newspapers of general circulation in the City at least
one week in advance of the hearing. Decisions made by the Commission under this
Section shall be subject to a review by the courts.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.11 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Commission may make investigations into the affairs of the City and the
conduct of any City department, office or agency and for this purpose may
subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the production
of evidence. The Commission may enforce its subpoenas in any manner as
permitted by law including but not limited to civil action for enforcement in a
court of competent jurisdiction. No subpoena, however, shall be issued except
upon the majority vote of the City Commission.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.12 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The Commission shall provide for an independent annual audit of all City
accounts in accordance with State law.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 4.13 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet regularly at least once every month at such times
and places as the Commission may prescribe by rule. Special meetings may be
held on the call of three or more members and, whenever practicable, upon no
less than twelve hours' notice to each member. The Commission shall provide a
reasonable period of time at each scheduled meeting for members of the public
to address the Commission upon matters relating to the City or of concern to
its citizens.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.14 RULES AND JOURNAL.
   The Commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall
provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings. This journal shall be a
public record.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 4.15 VOTING.
   Voting, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call and the ayes and
nays shall be recorded in the journal. Three members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and may
compel the attendance of absent members in the manner and subject to the
penalties by the rules of the Commission. No action of the Commission, except
as otherwise provided in the preceding sentence, shall be valid or binding
unless adopted by the affirmative vote of three or more members of the
Commission.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE V: COMMISSION SEATS
   City Commission seats are hereby designated as seats 1, 2, 3, 4 and Mayor.
All candidates for the City Commission shall be required to seek election to a
specific seat, No. 1, 2, 3, 4 and Mayor.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE VI: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE
SECTION 6.01 CITY ELECTIONS.
   The regular City election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the
first Monday in November of each year.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 6.02 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS.
   The terms of members of the Commission shall begin at the commencement of
the next regular or special City Commission meeting following certification of
the election in which the member was elected to office.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 11-8-94)
SECTION 6.03 LENGTH OF TERM.
   Terms shall be for two years.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 6.04 QUALIFIED VOTERS.
   Any person who is a resident of the city of Lake Mary who has qualified as
an elector of this State and who is registered in the manner prescribed by
general law and ordinance of the City of Lake Mary shall be a qualified elector
of the City of Lake Mary.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 6.05 ADOPTION OF ELECTION PROCEDURES.
   The City Commission, by ordinance, shall adopt such election procedures as
are necessary.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 6.06 NON-PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   All elections for offices of the City shall be non-partisan in character.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 6.07 MULTIPLE CANDIDATES.
   In the event that multiple candidates shall qualify for election to a single
office, and no candidate shall receive a majority vote, then the two candidates
receiving the most votes shall have a run-off election to decide the winner of
the election for that office. The run-off election, if required, shall be held
on the first Tuesday in December, following the general election.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE VII: CITY MANAGER
SECTION 7.01 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Commission shall appoint a City Manager for an indefinite term and fix
the compensation. The Manager shall be appointed primarily on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications. The City Manager need not be a
resident of the City or State at the time of appointment, but may reside
outside the City while in office only with the approval of the Commission.
(Amendment approved by voters 12-7-82; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 7.02 REMOVAL.
   If the City Manager declines to resign at the request of a majority of the
City Commission, the Commission may suspend the Manager, with or without pay,
by a resolution approved by a majority vote of the Commission. Such resolution
shall set forth the reasons for suspension and proposed removal. A copy of such
resolution shall be served immediately upon the City Manager. The City Manager
shall have fifteen days in which to reply thereto in writing, and upon request,
shall be afforded a public hearing, which shall occur not earlier than ten days
nor later than fifteen days after such hearing is requested. After the public
hearing, if one is requested, and after full consideration, the City Commission
by a majority vote may adopt a final resolution of removal.
(Amendment approved by voters 9- 1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 8-14-12)
SECTION 7.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the City, and
shall implement and administer all ordinances, resolutions, and policies
adopted by the City Commission and perform such other duties as may be required
by the City Commission or law. The City Manager shall be responsible to the
City Commission and shall have the following powers and duties:
   (a)   To employ persons to fill existing positions, and when the City
Manager deems it necessary for the good of the City service, suspend or remove
City employees except as otherwise provided by law or this charter. The
appointment, creation, elimination, employment or termination of chartered
officers, with the exception of the City Attorney and department heads, to
include the creation of new positions, shall be upon the recommendation of the
City Manager and the approval of the City Commission.
   (b)   To direct and supervise the administration of all employees,
departments, and agencies of the City, except as otherwise provided by this
charter or by law.
   (c)   Shall attend all Commission meetings and shall have the right to take
part in discussion but may not vote.
   (d)   To ensure that all laws, provisions of this charter and acts of the
Commission, subject to enforcement by the City Manager or by officers subject
to the City Manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   (e)   To submit to the Commission and make available to the public a
complete report on the administrative activities of the City as of the end of
each fiscal year.
   (f)   To make such other reports as the Commission may require concerning
the operations of City departments, officers, and agencies subject to the City
Manager's direction and supervision.
   (g)   To keep the Commission fully advised as to the condition and future
needs of the City and make written recommendations to the Commission concerning
the affairs of the City as the City Manager deems desirable.
   (h)   To perform such other duties as are specified in this charter or as
may from time to time be required by the Commission.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1- 87; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; amendment approved by voters 8-14-12)
ARTICLE VIII: CITY CLERK
   The City Manager shall appoint an officer of the City who shall have the
title of City Clerk and who shall be approved by the City Commission. The City
Clerk shall give notice of Commission meetings to its members and the public,
keep the journal of its proceedings and perform such other duties as are
assigned by this charter, the City Manager, the City Commission or by law.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE IX: FINANCE DIRECTOR
   There shall be a Finance Director appointed by the City Manager and approved
by the City Commission, who shall represent the City in all financial
proceedings and perform such other duties assigned by this charter, the City
Manager, the City Commission or by law. The Finance Director, through the City
Manager, shall keep the Commission fully advised of and make recommendations as
to the financial condition and future financial needs of the City.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE X: CITY ATTORNEY
   There shall be a City Attorney appointed by the City Commission, who shall
represent the City in legal proceedings and shall perform other duties assigned
by the City Commission. The City Commission may remove the City Attorney by
motion requiring three affirmative votes.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
ARTICLE XI: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 11.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF ADDITIONAL DEPARTMENTS, ETC.
   The Commission may establish such other departments as it determines
necessary for the efficient administration and operation of the City. Such
departments, offices, or agencies shall be established by Ordinance which
Ordinance shall prescribe the functions of all departments, offices, and
agencies so established.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
ARTICLE XII: ORDINANCES
SECTION 12.01 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provisions of this
charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Commission shall be by
ordinance which:
      1.   Adopt an administrative code or establish, alter, or abolish any
City department, office or agency.
      2.   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
      3.   Levy taxes, except as otherwise provided, in accordance with State
law;
      4.   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
      5.   Establish the rates charged for its services by City-owned
utilities;
      6. Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of
the City;
      7. Adopt with or without amendment ordinances proposed under initiative
power;
      8. Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted, except as otherwise
provided in
Article XIV with respect to repeal of ordinances reconsidered under the
referendum power.
(Amendment approved by voters 9- l-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 11-8-94; amendment approved by voters 8-14-12)
SECTION 12.02 ORDINANCES IN GENERAL.
   1.   Form. Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in
the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain more than one
subject which shall be clearly expressed in its title. The enacting clause
shall be:
   "IT IS HEREBY ENACTED BY THE CITY OF LAKE MARY AS FOLLOWS:"
   2. Procedure. An ordinance may be introduced by any member at any regular or
special meeting of the Commission. Upon introduction of any ordinance, it shall
be read by title only. All ordinances shall be read twice. The second reading
of any ordinance shall be by title only and shall follow the first reading by a
minimum of ten days; provided, however, this requirement may be waived by a
unanimous vote of all five members of the Commission. All ordinances shall be
posted for thirty days after their first reading.
   3.   Emergency Ordinances may be adopted by the City Commission in
accordance with state law.
   Every emergency ordinance, except one made pursuant to Section 13.05 #2
shall automatically stand repealed as of the sixty-first day following the date
on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent re-enactment of the
ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still
exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing
ordinance in the same manner specified for adoption of emergency ordinances.
   4. Effective Date. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, every
adopted ordinance shall become effective at the expiration of thirty days after
adoption or at any date specified therein.
(Amendment approved by voters 9- 1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 8-14-12)
SECTION 12.03 AUTHENTICATION AND RECORDING.
   The Mayor and the City Clerk shall authenticate by their signatures all
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Commission, and the City Clerk
shall record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all such
ordinances and resolutions.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 12.04 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Commission shall provide for the preparation of a general
codification of all applicable City ordinances and resolutions having the force
and effect of law. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as the
City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
ARTICLE XIII: FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
SECTION 13.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall be as established by State law.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 13.02 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET AND BUDGET MESSAGE.
   On or before the last day of July of each year, the City Manager shall
submit to the Commission a budget both in fiscal terms and in terms of the
programs of work to be accomplished. It shall outline the proposed financial
policies of the City for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important
features of the proposed budget, indicate any major changes from the current
year in financial policy including any changes in budgetary accounting methods
from the current year expenditures and revenues together with the reasons for
such changes; summarize the City's debt position and include such other
material as the City Manager deems necessary.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 13.03 COMMISSION ACTION ON BUDGET.
   1.   Notice and hearing shall be as provided by state law.
   2.   Unless authorized by the electors of the City at a duly held referendum
election, the City Commission shall not authorize or allow to be authorized,
the issuance of revenue bonds or enter into lease purchase contracts or any
other unfunded multi-year contracts for the purchase of real property or the
construction of any capital improvement, the repayment of which extends beyond
the end of any fiscal year. (Approved by the voters of the City of Lake Mary at
the Election held on Nov. 5, 1991)
   3.   Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund. In order to meet a public emergency
affecting the safety, health and welfare of the citizens, to meet regulatory
conditions imposed, or to avoid a financial loss to the utility and where the
requirements cannot be met through the prudent use of existing reserves, by the
affirmative vote of three members of the Commission the City may, by ordinance,
incur debt in the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund. The debt must be used within
the water and sewer enterprise fund and must be retired from revenues derived
from the sale of water and sewer services. The maturity of the debt shall not
exceed 80% of the expected useful life of the assets purchased. This paragraph
supersedes limitations provided for on the issuance of debt provided for on the
issuance of debt provided elsewhere in this Charter.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-8-88;
amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 13.04 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget and the capital program as adopted shall be public
records and shall be made available to the public at suitable places in the
City.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 13.05 AMENDMENTS AFTER ADOPTION.
   1.   Supplemental Appropriations. If during the fiscal year the City Manager
certifies that there are available for appropriation sources of funds in excess
of budgeted uses of funds, the Commission by resolution may make supplemental
appropriations for the year up to the amount of such excess.
   2.   Emergency Appropriations. To meet a public emergency affecting life,
health, property or the public peace, the Commission may make emergency
appropriations. To the extent that there are not available unappropriated
revenues to meet such appropriations, the Commission may by such emergency
ordinance authorize the issuance of emergency notes, and renewals of any fiscal
year shall be paid not later than the last day of the fiscal year succeeding
that in which the emergency appropriation was made. This provision supersedes
any limitations on the issuance of debt that may be provided for elsewhere in
this Charter.
   3.   Reduction of Appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the City Manager that the sources of funds available will
be insufficient to meet the uses of funds appropriated, the City Manager shall
report to the Commission without delay, indicating the estimated amount of the
deficit, any remedial action taken and a recommendation as to any other steps
to be taken. The Commission shall then take such further action as it deems
necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit, and for that purpose it may by
ordinance reduce one or more appropriations.
   4.   Transfer of Appropriations. At any time during the fiscal year the City
Manager may transfer part or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance
among programs within the same fund.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
ARTICLE XIV: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
SECTION 14.01 INITIATIVE.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have power to propose ordinances to
the Commission and, if the Commission fails to adopt an ordinance so proposed
without any change in substance, to adopt or reject it at a City election,
unless otherwise prohibited by general law.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.02 REFERENDUM.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to require
reconsideration by the Commission of any adopted ordinance and, if the City
fails to repeal an ordinance so reconsidered, to approve or reject it at a City
election, unless otherwise prohibited by general law.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.03 RECALL.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to recall and to
remove from office any elected official of the City as provided by general law.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.04 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS; PETITIONERS' COMMITTEE; AFFIDAVIT.
   Any five qualified voters may commence initiative or referendum proceedings
by filing with the City Clerk an affidavit stating that they will constitute
the petitioners' committee and be responsible for circulating the petition and
filing it in proper form, stating their names and addresses and specifying the
address to which all notices to the committee are to be sent, and setting out
in full the proposed initiative ordinance or citing the ordinance sought to be
reconsidered.
   Promptly after the affidavit of the petitioners' committee is filed, the
Clerk shall issue the appropriate petition blanks to the petitioners'
committee.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.05 PETITIONS.
   1.   Number of signatures. Initiative and referendum petitions must be
signed by qualified voters of the City equal in number to that required under
Article XV "Charter Amendments".
   2.   Form and Content. All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size and
style and shall be assembled as one instrument for filing. Each signature shall
be executed in ink or indelible pencil and shall be followed by the printed
name and the address of the person signing. Petitions shall contain or have
attached thereto throughout their circulation the full text of the ordinance
proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   3. Affidavit of Circulator. Each paper of a petition shall have attached to
it when filed an affidavit executed by the circulator thereof stating that they
personally circulated the paper, the number of signatures thereon, that all the
signatures were affixed in their presence, that they believe them to be the
genuine signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be and that each
signer had an opportunity before signing to read the full text of the ordinance
proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   4. Time for Filing Referendum Petitions. Referendum petitions must be filed
within thirty days after adoption by the Commission of the ordinance sought to
be reconsidered.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 14.06 PROCEDURE AFTER FILING.
   l. Certificate of Clerk; Amendment.
Within twenty days after the petition is filed, the City Clerk shall complete a
certificate as to its sufficiency, specifying if it is insufficient, the
particulars wherein it is defective and shall promptly send a copy of the
certificate to the petitioners' committee by registered mail. A petition
certified insufficient for lack of the required number of valid signatures may
be amended once if the petitioners' committee files a notice of intention to
amend it with the Clerk within two days after receiving the copy of their
certificate and files a supplementary petition upon additional papers within
ten days after receiving the copy of such certificate. Such supplementary
petition shall comply with the requirements of subsections 2 and 3 of Section
14.05, and within five days after it is filed the Clerk shall complete a
certificate as to the sufficiency of the petition as amended and promptly send
a copy of such certificate to the petitioners' committee by registered mail as
in the case of an original petition. If a petition or amended petition is
certified sufficient, or if a petition or amended petition is certified
insufficient and the petitioners' committee does not elect to amend or request
Commission review under subsection 2 of this section within the time required,
the Clerk shall promptly present their certificate to the Commission and the
certificate shall then be a final determination as to the sufficiency of the
petition.
   2. Commission Review. If a petition has been certified insufficient and the
petitioners' committee does not file notice of intention to amend it or if an
amended petition has been certified insufficient, the committee may, within two
days after receiving the copy of such certificate, file a request that it be
reviewed by the Commission. The Commission shall review the certificate at its
next meeting following the filing of such request and approve or disapprove it,
and the Commission's determination shall then be a final determination as to
the sufficiency of the petition.
   3. Court Review; New Petition. A final determination as to the sufficiency
of a petition shall be subject to court review. A final determination of
insufficiency, even if sustained upon court review, shall not prejudice the
filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92;
amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 14.07 REFERENDUM PETITIONS; SUSPENSION OF EFFECT OF ORDINANCE.
   When a referendum petition is filed with the City Clerk, the ordinance
sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended from taking effect. Such
suspension shall terminate when:
      (1)   There is a final determination of insufficiency of the petition, or
      (2)   The petitioners' committee withdraws the petition, or
      (3)   The Commission repeals the ordinance, or
      (4)   Thirty days have elapsed after a vote of the City on the ordinance.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.08 ACTION ON PETITIONS.
   1.   Action by Commission. When an initiative or referendum petition has
been finally determined sufficient, the Commission shall promptly consider the
proposed initiative ordinance or reconsider the referred ordinance by voting
its repeal. If the Commission fails to adopt a proposed initiative ordinance
without any change in substance within sixty days or fails to repeal the
referred ordinance within thirty days after the date the petition was finally
determined sufficient, it shall submit the proposed or referred ordinance to
the voters of the City.
   2.   Submission to Voters. The vote of the City on a proposed or referred
ordinance shall be held not less than thirty days and not later than one year
from the date of the final Commission vote thereon. If no regular City election
is to be held within the period prescribed in this subsection, the Commission
shall provide for a special election; otherwise, the vote shall be held at the
same time as such regular election, except that the Commission may in its
discretion provide for a special election at an earlier date within the
prescribed period. Copies of the proposed or referred ordinance shall be made
available at the polls.
   3.   Withdrawal of Petitions. An initiative or referendum petition may be
withdrawn at any time prior to the fifteenth day preceding the day scheduled
for a vote of the City by filing with the City Clerk a request for withdrawal
signed by at least four members of the petitioners' committee. Upon the filing
of such request, the petition shall have no further force or effect and all
proceedings thereon shall be terminated.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 14.09 RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   1.   Initiative. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
proposed initiative ordinance vote in its favor, it shall be considered adopted
upon certification of the election results and shall be treated in all respects
in the same manner as ordinances of the same kind adopted by the Commission. If
conflicting ordinances are approved at the same election, the one receiving the
greatest number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of such
conflict.
   2.   Referendum. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
referred ordinance vote against it, it shall be considered repealed upon
certification of the election results.
(Amendment approved by voters 9-1-87; amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE XV: CHARTER AMENDMENTS
SECTION 15.01 INITIATION BY ORDINANCE.
   The Commission may by ordinance propose amendments to any or all of this
Charter, as provided by general law.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 15.02 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   The electors of the City may propose amendments to this Charter by petition,
as provided by general law.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE XVI: TRANSITION SCHEDULE
SECTION 16.01 ORDINANCE PRESERVED.
   All ordinances in effect upon the adoption of this Charter, to the extent
not inconsistent with it, shall remain in force until repealed or changed as
provided herein.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 16.02 RIGHTS OF OFFICERS.
   Elected officials shall continue to hold their offices and discharge the
duties thereof until their successors are elected or appointed or until their
seat becomes vacant.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92; amendment approved by voters 1-31-12)
SECTION 16.03 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative
proceedings involving the city shall continue except as modified pursuant to
the provisions of this Charter.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
SECTION 16.04 EFFECTIVE DATE OF NEW CHARTER.
   Upon adoption of this Charter, the City shall file this Charter with the
Department of State, at which time this Charter shall take effect.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE XVII: SEPARABILITY.
SECTION 17.01 INVALIDITY OF CHARTER PROVISION OR APPLICATION.
   If any provision of this charter is held invalid, the other provisions of
the Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the Charter or
any of its provisions to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
application of the Charter and its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
ARTICLE XVIII: CONFLICTS
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed.
(Amendment approved by voters 11-4-92)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Severability
   
10.06   Altering code
   
10.07   Computation of time
   
10.08   Errors and omissions
   
10.09   Ordinances repealed
   
10.10   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.11   Ordinances saved
   
10.99   General penalty; attorneys' fees and costs
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances of the City of Lake Mary,
Florida." and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Lake Mary, Florida.
   COMMISSION or CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. Wherever these words appear in this code they shall
mean the City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   COUNTY. Seminole County, Florida.
   F.S. Florida Statutes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   OATH. Includes affirmation and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OFFICERS. References to the City Clerk, City Attorney, or other officers,
unless otherwise indicated, shall be construed to refer to officers of the
city.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations, and all other groups or combinations.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any park, cemetery, school yard or open space
adjacent thereto, and any lake or stream.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail with return receipt requested.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STATE. The State of Florida.
   STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, and
all other public highways in the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of the
building or land, either alone or with others.
   WRITING. Includes handwriting, printing, typewriting, and all other methods
and means of forming letters and characters upon paper, stone, wood, or other
materials.
Statutory reference:
   For state law definitions. see F.S. § 1.01
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the
common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and appropriate
meaning.
   (A)   Acts by agents. When any provision of this code requires an act to be
done which may by law be done by an agent as well is by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an
authorized agent.
   (B)   And. May be read "or," and "or" may be read "and", if the sense
requires it.
   (C)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, associations, joint adventures, partnerships,
corporations, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries, and
all other groups and combinations, as well as to males.
   (D)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a
majority of those officers or persons.
   (E)   Number. The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   (F)   Preceding, following. Next before and next after, respectively.
   (G)   Time. Words in the past or present tense include the future.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   The captions of the several sections of this code printed at the head of
each section are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as
any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY.
   The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code is declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgement
or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code since they would have been enacted by the
City Council without the incorporation in this code of any unconstitutional or
invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
§ 10.06 ALTERING CODE.
   No person in the city without proper authority shall change or amend by
additions or deletions any part or portion of this code, or insert or delete
pages or portions, or alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
§ 10.07 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code, by
order of court, or by any applicable ordinance or statute, the day of the act,
event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall
not be included. The last day of period so computed shall be included unless it
is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, in which event the period shall run
until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday.
   (B)   When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the
computation.
§ 10.08 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent or the error.
§ 10.09 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent
of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving
that purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto,
shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY; ATTORNEYS' FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or an offense, or whenever in
the code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor,
the violation of such a provision of this code or any ordinance, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Each day any violation of any provision
of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In addition to and supplemental to any other provision of this code,
the city shall be entitled, as a prevailing party, to recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in any legal proceeding brought by the city
to enforce any provision of this code through all appellate proceedings.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 1110, passed 9-18-03; Am. Ord. 1607, passed
2-21-19)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AGENCIES
      
31.   CITY FINANCE
      
32.   COUNCIL AND CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   (RESERVED)
      
37.   CODE ENFORCEMENT CITATIONS
      
38.     LOCAL IMPROVEMENT AND ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT
CHAPTER 30: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   (Reserved)
Planning and Zoning Board
   
30.15   Establishment
   
30.16   Comprehensive plan
Code Enforcement Board
   
30.30   Establishment
   
30.31   Members
   
30.32   Appointments
   
30.33   Officers
   
30.34   Quorum
   
30.35   Compensation
   
30.36   Code Inspectors; enforcement procedure
   
30.37   Conduct of hearings
   
30.38   Powers
   
30.39   Administrative fines; liens
   
30.40   Appeal
   
30.41   Notices
   30.42   Application for satisfaction, reduction, or release of code
enforcement liens
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
30.50   Establishment
   
30.51   Meetings
   
30.52   Funding
   
30.53   Rules of procedure
Advisory and/or Adjudicatory Boards
   
30.60   Removal of members of advisory and/or adjudicatory boards of the city
   
30.61   Eligibility to serve on advisory boards
City Tree Board
   
30.70   Creation and establishment
   
30.71   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.72   Operation
   
30.73   Public tree care
   
30.74   Review by City Commission
Historical Commission
   
30.80   Establishment
   
30.81   Membership
   
30.82   Meetings, procedures and appointment of city historian
   
30.83   Duties
   
30.84   Advisory functions
   
30.85   Space as a repository
Elder Affairs Commission
   
30.90   Establishment
   
30.91   Membership
   
30.92   Meetings
   
30.93   Duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 (RESERVED).
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 30.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The City Commission shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Board
consisting of five qualified electors of the city. The members of this Board
shall come from diverse vocational backgrounds. The members shall serve a term
of three years commencing on the first day of January. In addition, the City
Commission may appoint one qualified elector of the city to serve as an
alternate member, designating them as such. The alternate member shall only
vote in the temporary absence or disability of any regular member or vote when
a regular member is otherwise disqualified in a particular case that may be
presented to the Board. The term of service of the alternate member shall
expire December 31, 2001. Thereafter, the term shall be for three years.
   (B)   Members of the Board shall serve for overlapping terms of three years
or thereafter until their successors are appointed. Not more than a minority of
the terms of the members shall expire in any one year.
   (C)   Terms of service for Board members shall commence on the first day of
January.
   (D)   The term of any member of the Board of Adjustment shall automatically
terminate, without any action by the City Commission, at such time as the
member shall be absent for three consecutive meetings, regardless of the reason
for the absences.
   (E)   No board of the city, the City Commission or City Manager shall have
the authority to excuse any absence of any member of any board from a meeting
and any such action shall be null and void and without any force and effect.
   (F)   At such time as any member of the Board of Adjustment shall be absent
for three consecutive meetings, the City Clerk shall advise the member that his
or her term has automatically terminated due to the absences and also advise
the City Commission of the same. The City Commission shall forthwith appoint a
successor to complete the term of the member so terminated.
   (G)   The automatic removal of a member for reason of absence shall not
preclude the reappointment of that member to the vacancy created by the
automatic removal and shall not disqualify that member from future service on
any board of the city. If the member desires to be reappointed to complete his
or her term, he or she shall provide circumstances for missing the meetings,
which the City Commission will consider in addition to the member's attendance
record for the prior one-year period. However, if the Board member is removed
for reason of absence for a second time within a two-year period, the Board
member shall not be reappointed and shall not be eligible to serve on any
advisory board for one year from the date of the last missed meeting.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any term of service established by ordinance for
members of the Board of Adjustment, each member shall serve at the discretion
of the City Commission and may be removed at any time prior to the expiration
of their term of service, without cause, upon the motion of any City
Commissioner, provided that the motion shall be approved by a majority vote of
the Commission.
   (I)   A member removed under the provisions of division (H) hereof shall not
be eligible for reappointment to fill the vacancy created by the member's
removal. Further, the member shall be disqualified from serving on any board
until the term of service for the position from which the member was removed
pursuant to division (H) hereof has expired.
(Ord. 142, passed 11-19-81; Am. Ord. 200, passed 9-13-84; Am. Ord. 634, passed
2-18-93; Am. Ord. 676, passed 12-2-93; Am. Ord. 917, passed 3-4-99; Am. Ord.
1118, passed 1-22-04)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, see §
154.25
§ 30.16 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall be the "local planning agency" under
Chapter 163, and shall have the general responsibility for the conduct of the
comprehensive planning program and the preparation of the comprehensive plan,
or elements or portions thereof. The Board shall monitor and oversee the
effectiveness and status of the comprehensive plan and recommend to the City
Commission changes in the comprehensive plan that may from time to time be
required. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Board to prepare the
comprehensive plan with required elements as provided in F.S. Chapter 163, as
may be amended from time to time. Final adoption of the comprehensive plan or
any amendment or alteration to it shall be by City Commission approval.
(Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Ch. 151
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 30.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Commission does hereby create a Code Enforcement Board pursuant to
the terms of F.S. Chapter 166 and Chapter 162.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.31 MEMBERS.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall consist of seven members to be appointed by
the City Commission. The members of the Board shall be residents of the
municipality and appointments to the Board shall be in accordance with the
terms of applicable law on the basis of experience or interest in the subject
matter jurisdiction of the Code Enforcement Board; and whenever possible, the
membership shall include architects, businessmen, attorneys, engineers, general
contractors, subcontractors, and realtors.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.32 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The initial appointments to the Enforcement Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   Two members appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   Three members appointed for a term of two years;
      (3)   Two members appointed for a term of three years.
   (B)   Thereafter all appointments shall be made for a term of three years
and any member may be reappointed from term to term upon approval of the City
Commission. Appointments to fill any vacancy on the Code Enforcement Board
shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. Any member who
fails to attend two of three successive meetings without cause and without
prior approval of the chairman, shall automatically forfeit his appointment,
and the City Commission shall promptly fill such vacancy. The members shall
serve in accordance with the City Charter and their appointment may be revoked
as provided for the removal of members of city boards.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.33 OFFICERS.
   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall elect a chairman, who shall be a
voting member, from among the members of the Board.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.34 QUORUM.
   The presence of four or more members shall constitute a quorum of the Code
Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.35 COMPENSATION.
   Code Enforcement Board members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for travel, mileage, and per diem expenses as may be authorized by
the City Commission.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.36 CODE INSPECTORS; ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Code Inspectors shall be the Building Official, City Planner, Director
of Public Safety, Chief of Police, and the Fire Chief or their designated
representatives and it shall be their duty to insure code compliance and to
initiate enforcement proceedings; however, no member of a board shall have the
power to initiate such enforcement proceedings.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) of this section, if a
violation of the codes is found, the Code Inspectors shall notify the violator
and allow the violator a reasonable time to correct the violation. Should the
violation continue beyond the time specified for correction, the Code
Inspectors shall notify the Code Enforcement Board and request a hearing. The
Code Enforcement Board, through its clerical staff, shall schedule a hearing,
and written notice of such hearing shall be hand delivered or mailed as
provided in §
30.40 to the violator. At the option of the Code Enforcement Board, notice may
additionally be served by publication as provided in §
30.40. If the violation is corrected and then recurs or if the violation is not
corrected by the time specified for correction by the Code Inspector, the case
may be presented to the Code Enforcement Board even if the violation has been
corrected prior to the Board hearing, and the notice shall so state.
   (C)   (1)   If a repeat violation is found, the Code Inspector shall notify
the violator but is not required to give the violator a reasonable time to
correct the violation. The Code Inspector, upon notifying the violator of a
repeat violation, shall notify the Code Enforcement Board and request a
hearing. The Code Enforcement Board, through its clerical staff, shall schedule
a hearing and shall provide notice pursuant to §
30.40. The case may be presented to the Code Enforcement Board even if the
repeat violation has been corrected prior to the Board hearing, and the notice
shall so state. If the repeat violation has been corrected, the Code
Enforcement Board retains the right to schedule a hearing to determine costs
and impose the payment of reasonable enforcement fees upon the repeat violator.
The repeat violator may choose to waive his or her rights to this hearing and
pay the costs as determined by the Code Enforcement Board.
      (2)   "REPEAT VIOLATION" means a violation of a provision of a code or
ordinance by a person who has previously found through the Code Enforcement
Board or other quasi-judicial or judicial process, to have violated or who has
admitted violating the same provision within five years prior to the violation,
notwithstanding the violations occur at different locations.
   (D)   If the Code Inspector has reason to believe a violation presents a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare or if the violation is
irreparable or irreversible in nature, the Code Inspector shall make a
reasonable effort to notify the violator and may immediately notify the Code
Enforcement Board and request a hearing.
   (E)   If the owner of property which is subject to an enforcement proceeding
before the Code Enforcement Board or court transfers ownership of the property
between the time initial pleading or notice was served and the time of the
hearing, the owner shall:
      (1)   Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the
proceeding to the prospective transferee.
      (2)   Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of the pleadings,
notices, and other materials relating to the code enforcement proceeding
received by the transferor.
      (3)   Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new
owner will be responsible for compliance with the applicable code and with
orders issued in the code enforcement proceeding.
      (4)   File a notice with the code enforcement official of the transfer of
the property, with the identity and address of the new owner and copies of the
disclosures made to the new owner, within five days after the date of the
transfer.
   A failure to make the disclosures described in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)
before the transfer creates a rebuttable presumption of fraud. If the property
is transferred before the hearing, the proceeding shall not be dismissed, but
the new owner shall be provided a reasonable period of time to correct the
violation before the hearing is held.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90; Am. Ord. 966, passed 3-2-00)
§ 30.37 CONDUCT OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Upon request of the Code Inspector, or at such other times as may be
necessary, the Chairman of the Code Enforcement Board may call a hearing of the
Board; a hearing also may be called by written notice signed by at least three
members of the Code Enforcement Board. At any hearing, the Code Enforcement
Board may set a future hearing date. The Code Enforcement Board shall convene
no less frequently than once every two months, but it may meet more often as
the demand necessitates. Minutes shall be kept of all hearings by the Code
Enforcement Board, and all hearings and proceedings shall be open to the
public. The City Commission shall provide clerical and administrative personnel
as may be reasonably required by the Code Enforcement Board for the proper
performance of its duties.
   (B)   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by the
City Attorney or by a member of the administrative staff of the city.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Board shall proceed to hear the cases on the
agenda for that day. All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded.
The Code Enforcement Board shall take testimony from the Code Inspector and
alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due
process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board shall
issue findings of fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and
shall issue an order affording the proper relief consistent with powers granted
herein. The finding shall be by motion approved by a majority of those members
present and voting, except that at least four members of the Code Enforcement
Board must vote in order for the action to be official. The order may include a
notice that it must be complied with by a specified date and that a fine may be
imposed if the order is not complied with by that date. A certified copy of the
order may be recorded in the public records of the county and shall constitute
notice to any subsequent purchasers, successors in interest, or assigns if the
violation concerns real property, and the findings therein shall be binding
upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real property, any subsequent
purchasers, successors in interest, or assigns. If an order is recorded in the
public records pursuant to this division and the order is complied with by the
date specified in the order, the Code Enforcement Board shall issue an order
acknowledging compliance that shall be recorded in the public records. A
hearing is not required to issue such an order acknowledging compliance.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.38 POWERS.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Adopt rules for the conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to its hearings;
   (C)   Subpoena evidence to its hearings;
   (D)   Take testimony under oath;
   (E)   Issue orders, having the force of law, commanding whatever steps are
necessary to bring a violation into compliance.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.39 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; LIENS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board, upon notification by the Code Inspector
that an order of the Code Enforcement Board has not been complied with by the
set time or, upon finding that a repeat violation has been committed, may order
the violator to pay a fine in an amount specified in this section for each day
the violation continues past the date set by the Code Enforcement Board for
compliance or, in the case of a repeat violation, for each day the repeat
violation continues past the date of notice to the violator of the repeat
violation.  In addition, if the violation is a violation described in §
30.36(D), the board shall notify the City Commission, which may make all
reasonable repairs which are required to bring the property into compliance and
charge the violator with the reasonable cost of the repairs along with the fine
imposed pursuant to this section. Making such repairs does not create a
continuing obligation on the part of the City of Lake Mary to make further
repairs or maintain the property and it does not create any liability against
the city for any damages to the property if such repairs were completed in good
faith. If a finding of a violation or a repeat violation has been made, a
hearing shall not be necessary for issuance of the order imposing the fine. If,
after due notice and hearing, the Code Enforcement Board finds a violation to
be irreparable or irreversible in nature, it may order the violator to pay a
fine as specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B) A fine imposed pursuant to this section shall not exceed $250 per day
for a first violation and shall not exceed $500 per day for a repeat violation
and, in addition, may include all costs of repairs pursuant to division (A) of
this section. However, if the Code Enforcement Board finds the violation to be
irreparable or irreversible in nature, it may impose a fine not to exceed
$5,000.00 per violation.
   (C)   In determining the amount of the fine, if any, the Code Enforcement
Board shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   The gravity of the violation;
      (2)   Any actions taken by the violator to correct the violation; and
      (3)   Any previous violations committed by the violator.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Board may reduce a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
   (E)   A certified copy of an order imposing a fine, or fine plus repair
costs, may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a
lien against the land on which the violation exists and upon any other real or
personal property owned by the violator, until paid or extinguished. Upon
petition to the circuit court, the order may be enforced in the same manner as
a court judgment by the sheriffs of this state, including levy against the
personal property of the violator, but the order shall not be deemed to be a
court judgment except for enforcement purposes. A fine imposed pursuant to this
section shall continue to accrue until the violator comes into compliance or
until judgment is rendered in a suit to foreclose on a lien filed pursuant to
this section, whichever occurs first. A lien arising from a fine imposed
pursuant to this section runs in favor of the City Commission and the City
Commission may execute a satisfaction or release of lien entered pursuant to
this section. After three months from the filing of any such lien which remains
unpaid, the Code Enforcement Board may authorize the City Attorney to foreclose
on the lien. No lien created pursuant to the provisions of this section may be
foreclosed on real property which is a homestead under Sec. 4, Art. X of the
State Constitution.
   (F)   No lien provided under the provisions of this section shall continue
for a period longer than 20 years after the certified copy of an order imposing
a fine has been recorded, unless within that time an action to foreclose on the
lien is commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction. In an action to
foreclose on a lien, the prevailing party is entitled to recover all costs,
including a reasonable attorney's fee, that it incurs in the foreclosure. The
City of Lake Mary shall be entitled to collect all costs incurred in recording
and satisfying a valid lien. The continuation of the lien effected by the
commencement of the action shall not be good against creditors or subsequent
purchasers for valuable consideration without notice, unless a notice of lis
pendens is recorded.
   (G)   Upon full payment of the fine or lien amount, including accrued
interest, the city shall execute a satisfaction of lien and record the same in
the public records of Seminole County.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90; Am. Ord. 966, passed 3-2-00; Am. Ord. 1494, passed 9-
19-13)
§ 30.40 APPEAL.
   An aggrieved party, including the city, may appeal a final administrative
order of the Code Enforcement Board to the circuit court. Such an appeal shall
not be a hearing de novo but shall be limited to appellate review of the record
created before the Code Enforcement Board. An appeal shall be filed within 30
days of the execution of the order to be appealed.
(Ord. 508, passed 6-7-90)
§ 30.41 NOTICES.
   Notices required by §§
30.30 -
30.39 shall be provided in accordance with F.S. §162.12, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 1478, passed 12-20-12)
§ 30.42 APPLICATION FOR SATISFACTION, REDUCTION, OR RELEASE OF CODE ENFORCEMENT
LIENS.
   (A)   Where a certified copy of an order imposing a penalty or fine, as
described in this chapter, has been recorded in the public records of the
county, and has become a lien against the land and/or property of the violator,
such violator, or the violator's successors or assigns, who has an ownership
interest in the encumbered property (collectively the "applicant") may apply
for a satisfaction, reduction, or release, of such lien as follows:
      (1)   Upon full payment by the applicant of the fine or penalty imposed
in accordance with this chapter, the City Clerk is hereby authorized to execute
and record on behalf of the city a satisfaction of lien in the public records
of the county. The applicant shall be responsible for paying all costs of
recording.
      (2)   Upon request for a reduction or release of a lien or penalty
imposed in accordance with this section, the applicant shall submit a written
application to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application for reduction or release of lien shall be in written
form, typed or handwritten, by the applicant and shall be submitted to the City
Clerk. The application shall be executed under oath and sworn to in the
presence of a notary public, and shall include, but may not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A copy of the deed to the property, and the order imposing the lien
upon the property including the code enforcement case number;
      (2)   The date upon which the applicant brought the subject property into
compliance with the code;
      (3)   The factual basis upon which the applicant believes the application
for release or reduction of lien should be granted. If based on financial
hardship, proof of the hardship should be provided:
      (4)   The terms upon which the release or reduction of lien should be
granted, specifically, the amount of time requested to make the partial
payment;
      (5)   The reasons, if any, compliance was not obtained prior to the order
of penalty or fine being recorded;
      (6)   The reduction in penalty or fine sought by the applicant;
      (7)   A statement verifying whether the applicant was issued any title
policy or policies for the subject property encumbered by the lien after the
date the lien was recorded in the public records of the county. If such a
policy or policies were issued to the applicant, a copy of any such title
policy must be submitted with the application;
      (8)   If the property is homestead, proof of the homestead status;
      (9)   Any lien or mortgage foreclosure that might impact the code
enforcement liens, and whether the city was named as a defendant in a
foreclosure case;
      (10)   If the reason for the reduction request is a pending sale of the
property, a copy of the sales contract must be provided;
      (11)   Any other information which the applicant deems pertinent to the
request, including but not limited to the circumstances that exist which would
warrant the reduction or satisfaction of the penalty or fine. This could
include proof of permanent improvements made to the property by the applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit, at the time of application, payment to the
city in the amount necessary to reimburse the city for its costs associated
with recording the order imposing a penalty or fine and the requested reduction
or release of lien. These costs are nonrefundable, without regard for the final
disposition of the application.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the application for reduction or release of lien and
payment provided above, the City Clerk shall confirm through the Code
Enforcement Department that the violation which resulted in the order imposing
penalty or fine has been brought into compliance. If: (1) the violation has
been brought into compliance; (2) there is no current code violation upon the
property in question or any other property owned by the applicant; (3) all ad
valorem property taxes, special assessments, city utility charges and other
government-imposed liens against the subject real property have been paid; (4)
the applicant, and, if a corporate entity such as an LLC, the managing member
of the applicant, is not personally indebted to the city for any reason; (5)
there are no expired permits on the subject property or any property owned by
the applicant in the city, the City Manager shall review and consider the
application. Additional information shall also be required to support the
application if the City Manager deems such information is relevant and
necessary to make a final decision on the application. The City Commission
hereby delegates to the City Manager the authority to review and consider
applications for release or reduction of liens and make determinations as
provided herein.
   (E)   Liens not eligible for reduction. The following liens cannot be
reduced by the city:
      (1)   Hard costs incurred by the city, including but not limited to: lot
clearing, boarding up, demolition, condemnation costs, any costs incurred by a
city contractor to cure the violation, etc.;
      (2)   Any lien resulting from a fine for a violation that was determined
to be irreparable or irreversible;
      (3)   Any lien that is insured by a title insurance policy (not listed as
an exception);
      (4)   Any lien that is currently the subject of a foreclosure action
initiated by the city.
   (F)   The City Manager shall review and consider the following factors in
making a determination to reduce or release the lien:
      (1)   The amount of any administrative and out-of-pocket costs incurred
by the city which are directly associated with the underlying code enforcement
case and lien including, but not limited to, code enforcement staff and
attorney time, postage, advertising and recording costs, and other city
expenses related to any measure taken by the Code Enforcement Board or city to
abate a nuisance caused by the violation;
      (2)   The gravity and number of violation(s);
      (3)   The amount of the requested reduction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant was responsible for the violation which
caused the lien;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is or will be a bona fide purchaser of the
subject property and is filing or has filed for a homestead exemption
evidencing a desire to reside within the city on a non-transient basis, or
whether the property is or will be acquired for investment or other purposes;
      (6)   Whether the applicant acquired the subject property with knowledge
of the subject lien, and whether the applicant should have known about the
lien;
      (7)   The time it took to bring the property into compliance;
      (8)   The accrued amount of the code enforcement lien as compared to the
current market value of the property;
      (9)   With respect to a speculator, non-homestead purchaser of the
subject property, the accrued amount of the code enforcement lien as compared
to the investment/profit that will be gained as a result of the purchase or
sale of the property and the reduction or satisfaction;
      (10)   Any previous or subsequent code violations pertaining to the
property unless an order finding a violation is under appeal at the time of
determination;
      (11)   Any previous or subsequent code violations of the applicant
pertaining to other properties owned within the city, unless an order finding a
violation is under appeal at the time of determination;
      (12)   Any relevant information contained in any title policy required to
be submitted to the city under this section;
      (13)   Any financial hardship;
      (14)   Any other mitigating circumstance which may warrant the reduction
or satisfaction of the penalty or fine, including the effect of a foreclosure
judgment; and
      (15)   Any other administrative review criteria relevant to whether it is
equitable to reduce or release a lien which are adopted by the City Manager, in
writing, and are intended to be applied to all applications on a uniform basis.
   (G)   The City Manager may, in writing, approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application to reduce or release the lien. To the maximum extent
feasible, the City Manager shall collect, at a minimum, all administrative and
out-of-pocket costs incurred by the city as specified in division (E)(1). If
the City Manager approves the application and the approval is conditioned upon
the applicant paying a reduced penalty, fine, or any other condition, the
satisfaction or release of lien shall not be prepared or recorded until the
condition(s) placed by the City Manager have been satisfied. If the applicant
is a prospective owner, any lien reduction granted by the City Manager is
conditioned upon the transfer of title to the property to the applicant.
   (H)   The applicant shall have 30 days in which to comply with the
conditions imposed by the City Manager or submit a written appeal as provided
herein. Failure of the applicant to comply or timely appeal will result in the
automatic denial of the application and the original amount of the lien,
including costs, shall be automatically reinstated. After the appeal time
period has run or is waived by the applicant, in writing, the City Manager may,
for good cause shown, grant additional time in the form of a written estoppel
letter to a closing agent for purposes of facilitating a pending closing of the
subject property.
   (I)   If the application is denied, or if the application is automatically
denied due to the failure of the applicant to comply with the conditions
imposed by the City Manager or timely appeal, the applicant shall thereafter be
barred from applying for a subsequent reduction or release of lien for a period
of one year from the date of denial. During the one-year period, the lien may
only be satisfied and released upon full payment of the fine imposed in
accordance with this section.
   (J)   The applicant may appeal the City Manager's decision to the City
Commission by filing a written appeal within 30 days of the date of the
decision with the City Clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the decision
that is being appealed, the grounds for appeal, and a brief summary of the
relief being sought. Upon submittal of a timely appeal, the City Manager shall
place the appeal upon the agenda of the next regularly scheduled City
Commission meeting to the extent practicable. The City Commission shall render
a final decision on the application based upon the sworn application and
determination of the City Manager, and any other relevant information or
testimony provided to the City Commission at the meeting by the applicant, City
Manager or any other interested party. Any decision made by the City Commission
pursuant to this section shall be deemed final and not subject to any further
administrative review by the city. The applicant shall have 30 days in which to
comply with any decision of or condition imposed by the City Commission or the
application shall be deemed automatically denied, and thereafter the applicant
shall be barred from applying for a subsequent reduction or release of lien for
a period of one year from the date of the City Commission's decision. During
the one-year period, the lien may only be satisfied and released upon full
payment of the fine imposed in accordance with this section.
   (K)   When a lien is satisfied as a result of reduced payment or release as
ordered by the City Manager or City Commission, the City Clerk is hereby
authorized to execute and record in the public records of the county a
satisfaction of lien on behalf of the city.
   (L)   Under appropriate circumstances determined by the City Manager or City
Commission to be in the best interests of the city, the City Manager or City
Commission may approve an application conditioned upon a partial release of
lien that releases a city lien from a specific piece of property. However, in
those circumstances, the lien will remain in effect and will encumber any other
properties which are subject to the lien pursuant to law. Partial releases of
lien may also be authorized by the City Manager or City Commission to account
for any funds paid to the city to reduce the amount owed on the lien. In
addition, nothing herein shall prohibit the City Manager from releasing a lien,
in whole or part, which was recorded in error by the city or foreclosed by a
superior lien or mortgage in a judicial proceeding. The City Manager may impose
an administrative charge to release a lien foreclosed to recover the city's
costs associated with the subject lien. A property owner does not need to file
an application to release a lien recorded in error.
(Ord. 1628, passed 8-20-20)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 30.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Commission shall appoint a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
consisting of seven members, all of whom must be qualified electors of the
city. The members of this Board shall come from diverse backgrounds.
   (A)   The initial appointments to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Three members appointed for a term expiring December 31, 1989.
      (2)   Four members appointed for a term expiring December 31, 1990.
   (B)   Thereafter all appointments shall be made for a term of two years,
commencing on the first day of January.
   (C)   The term of any member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
shall automatically terminate, without any action by the City Commission at
such time as the member shall be absent for three consecutive meetings,
regardless of the reason for such absences.
   (D)   No board of the city, the City Commission or City Manager shall have
the authority to excuse any absence of any member of any board from a meeting
and any such action shall be null and void and without any force and effect.
   (E)   At such time as any member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
shall be absent for three consecutive meetings, the City Clerk shall advise the
member that his or her term has automatically terminated due to the absences
and also advise the City Commission of the same. The City Commission shall
forthwith appoint a successor to complete the term of the member so terminated.
   (F)   The automatic removal of a member for reason of absence shall not
preclude the reappointment of that member to the vacancy created by the
automatic removal and shall not disqualify that member from future service on
any board of the city. If the member desires to be reappointed to complete his
or her term, he or she shall provide circumstances for missing the meetings,
which the City Commission will consider in addition to the member's attendance
record for the prior one-year period. However, if the Board member is removed
for reason of absence for a second time within a two-year period, the Board
member shall not be reappointed and shall not be eligible to serve on any
advisory board for one year from the date of the last missed meeting.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any term of service established by ordinance for
members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board, each member shall serve at
the discretion of the City Commission and may be removed at any time prior to
the expiration of their term of service, without cause, upon the motion of any
City Commissioner, provided that the motion shall be approved by a majority
vote of the Commission.
   (H)   A member removed under the provisions of division (G) hereof shall not
be eligible for reappointment to fill the vacancy created by the member's
removal. Further, the member shall be disqualified from serving on any board
until the term of service for the position from which the member was removed,
pursuant to division (G) hereof has expired.
(Ord. 411, passed 1-5-89; Am. Ord. 592, passed 2-20-92; Am. Ord. 676, passed
12-2-93; Am. Ord. 1118, passed 1-22-04)
§ 30.51 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall be public
meetings. Public notice shall be placed in three conspicuous locations in the
city at least seven days prior to a called public meeting. The records of the
meetings shall be public records, and a copy of the records shall be kept at
City Hall.
(Ord. 411, passed 1-5-89)
§ 30.52 FUNDING.
   All funding and financial support for the work of the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board shall require approval of the City Commission.
(Ord. 411, passed 1-5-89)
§ 30.53 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall establish and adopt a set of
rules of procedure and choose its officers within 90 days of the effective date
of this subchapter. Prior to the adoption of the set of rules of procedure, the
Board will appoint an interim Chairman to preside at all meetings. The rules of
procedure shall be subject to review, alteration, or amendment by the City
Commission. The Recreation Administrator is designated as the technical advisor
of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. If the position of Recreation
Administrator is unfunded or vacated, the City Manager shall appoint an interim
technical advisor.
(Ord. 411, passed 1-5-89)
ADVISORY AND/OR ADJUDICATORY BOARDS
§ 30.60 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS OF ADVISORY AND/OR ADJUDICATORY BOARDS OF THE CITY.
   The removal of members of an advisory and/or adjudicatory board not
specifically provided for herein shall be as follows:
   (A)   The term of any member of an advisory and/or adjudicatory board of the
city not specifically provided for herein shall automatically terminate,
without any action by the City Commission at such time as the member shall be
absent for three consecutive meetings, regardless of the reason for such
absences.
   (B)   No board of the city, the City Commission, or City Manager shall have
the authority to excuse any absence of any member of any board from a meeting
and any such action shall be null and void and without any force and effect.
   (C)   At such time as any member of an advisory and/or adjudicatory board
shall be absent for three consecutive meetings, the City Clerk shall advise the
member that his or her term has automatically terminated due to the absences
and also advise the City Commission of the same. The City Commission shall
forthwith appoint a successor to complete the term of the member so terminated.
   (D)   The automatic removal of a member for reason of absence shall not
preclude the reappointment of that member to the vacancy created by the
automatic removal and shall not disqualify that member from future service on
any board of the city. If the member desires to be reappointed to complete his
or her term, he or she shall provide circumstances for missing the meetings,
which the City Commission will consider in addition to the member's attendance
record for the prior one-year period. However, if the board member is removed
for reason of absence for a second time within a two-year period, the board
member shall not be reappointed and shall not be eligible to serve on any
advisory board for one year from the date of the last missed meeting.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any term of service established by ordinance or
resolution for members of advisory and/or adjudicatory boards of the city not
specifically provided herein, each member shall serve at the discretion of the
City Commission and may be removed at any time prior to the expiration of their
term of service, without cause, upon the motion of any City Commissioner,
provided that the motion shall be approved by a majority vote of the
Commission.
   (F)   A member removed under the provisions of division (E) hereof shall not
be eligible for reappointment to fill the vacancy created by the member's
removal. Further, the member shall be disqualified from serving on any board
until the term of service for the position from which the member was removed,
pursuant to division (E) hereof has expired.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of the Code
Enforcement Board. Removal of members shall be in accordance with Fla. Stat. §
162.05, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 592, passed 2-20-92)
§ 30.61 ELIGIBILITY TO SERVE ON ADVISORY BOARDS.
   A board member is only eligible to serve on one advisory board at a time. No
city employee can serve on an advisory board unless it is statutorily required.
If an employee is currently serving on an advisory board, he or she may
continue to serve the remainder of his or her term, at which time he or she
shall not be reappointed.
(Ord. 1118, passed 1-22-04)
CITY TREE BOARD
§ 30.70 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the city,
which shall consist of seven members, citizens and residents of this city, who
are serving as members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-93)
§ 30.71 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan
will be presented annually to the City Commission and upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
   (B)   The Board, when requested by the City Commission, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-93)
§ 30.72 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its findings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-93)
§ 30.73 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of the trees is in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-93)
§ 30.74 REVIEW BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. Any person may appeal
from any decision of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board to the City
Commission who may hear the matter and make the final decision.
(Ord. 668, passed 10-7-93)
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
§ 30.80 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Lake Mary Historical Commission.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91)
§ 30.81 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Historical Commission shall consist of seven members, five of whom shall
be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Commission. Two
members shall be appointed by the Historical Commission and ratified by the
Mayor and City Commission. All appointments/reappointments shall be for a
three-year term.
   (A)   The members shall serve three year terms to run concurrently with the
calendar year.
   (B)   One or more members of the City Commission may be selected to serve as
members of the Historical Commission.
   (C)   In selecting citizens to serve on the Historical Commission, the Mayor
and City Commission shall consider the interest of such citizens in the history
and cultural lore and development of Lake Mary.
   (D)   The chairman and officers of the Historical Commission shall be
elected by the Lake Mary Historical Commission.
   (E)   The members of the Historical Commission shall receive no
compensation.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91; Am. Res. 418, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 1037, passed
10-18-01; Am. Ord. 1123, passed 3-18-04; Am. Ord. 1241, passed 2-15-07; Am.
Ord. 1255, passed 6-21-07; Am. Ord. 1335, passed 11-19-09; Am. Ord. 1474,
passed 11-15-12)
§ 30.82 MEETINGS, PROCEDURES AND APPOINTMENT OF CITY HISTORIAN.
   As soon as practicable after this subchapter becomes effective, the
Historical Commission shall meet at an appropriate place and shall arrange a
time for holding regular meetings as shall be necessary, and the Historical
Commission may adopt such rules of organization and procedure as it may deem
necessary and determine the duties of its members and employees.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91)
§ 30.83 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Historical Commission to advise the Mayor and
City Commission on matters of historical interest concerning Lake Mary that
would allow the Lake Mary Commission to carry out the following duties:
   (A)   Collect, arrange, record and preserve historical material and data,
including books, pamphlets, maps, charts, manuscripts, family histories, U.S.
census records, papers and other objects and material illustrative of and
relating to the history of Lake Mary and of Florida;
   (B)   To procure and preserve narratives of the early pioneers, their
exploits, perils, privations and achievements; and
   (C)   To collect material of every description relative to the history of
its Indian tribes and wars, and relative to its military, its schools and
churches, industry and public and private professions and occupations.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91)
§ 30.84 ADVISORY FUNCTIONS.
   The Historical Commission may:
   (A)   Recommend to the Mayor and City Commission upon its own initiative or
upon petition of municipalities or historical societies, that Lake Mary mark by
proper monuments, tablets or markers, the location of forts, Indian mounds,
villages, camps or other places in Lake Mary where historical events have
occurred.
   (B)   Recommend that the city acquire, restore, protect and preserve
properties, sites, locations and places relative and pertinent to the history
of Lake Mary and Florida.
   (C)   Recommend, on its own initiative, that the Mayor and City Commission
on special occasions, or in conjunction with national, state and local
holidays, promote, arrange, produce and conduct, expositions, celebrations and
educational programs, concerning and touching upon the historical occasions,
achievements and pioneer days of the people, citizens, local governments of the
city, state and the United States of America, the colonists, and the founding
fathers.
   (D)   Recommend that the Mayor and City Commission, co-sponsor, promote,
assist and jointly conduct historic site surveys, expositions, commemorations
and celebrations, in conjunction and in cooperation with local, state and
national societies, organizations and governmental agencies.
   (E)   Recommend that the Mayor and City Commission publish and distribute
books, pamphlets, newsletters and other publications, concerning national,
state, county and local history, archeology, historical genealogy, government
institutions and societies, and concerning the programs, work, duties and
operation of the Historical Commission.
   (F)   Promote and assist in the creation, program and work of local
historical, archeological and genealogical societies.
   (G)   Recommend that the Mayor and City Commission create, operate and
maintain museums and public displays of archives and artifacts for the
education of the general public and citizens of the city.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91)
§ 30.85 SPACE AS A REPOSITORY.
   The city may provide space in the City Hall or other public building for the
protection and/or display of historical documents and/or artifacts.
(Ord. 365, passed 1-3-91)
ELDER AFFAIRS COMMISSION
§ 30.90 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City of Lake Mary’s Elder Affairs Commission is hereby established.
(Res. 423, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 1259, passed 9-6-07)
§ 30.91 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Elder Affairs Commission will consist of seven citizens of the city, at
least three of whom are sixty years of age or older. Up to three of the seven
citizens may reside within unincorporated areas of Lake Mary. All appointments
shall be made for a term of three years, and any member may be reappointed from
term to term upon approval of the City Commission.
   (A)   The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Elder Affairs Commission shall
be elected by the members of the committee.
   (B)   The members of the Elder Affairs Commission shall receive no
compensation.
(Res. 423, passed 4-16-92; Am. Res. 600, passed 5-21-98; Am. Ord. 1259, passed
9-6-07; Am. Ord. 1294, passed 7-24-08; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-3-15)
§ 30.92 MEETINGS.
   The Elder Affairs Commission shall hold regular meetings as shall be
necessary. The presence of four or more members shall constitute a quorum of
the Elder Affairs Commission.
(Res. 423, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 1259, passed 9-6-07; Am. Ord. 1527, passed
9-3-15)
§ 30.93 DUTIES.
   Duties of the Elder Affairs Commission include:
   (A)   Advise the City Commission on senior citizen needs and programs and
make recommendations regarding the Lake Mary Senior Center and its funding;
   (B)   Support the city’s senior citizen activities through fund raising and
applications for state and federal grants;
   (C)   Provide leadership and technical assistance to the City Commission on
programs that will help senior citizens for the future to include initiatives
such as "Communities for a Lifetime";
   (D)   Provide awareness to the city’s seniors of programs and services that
educate, protect and assist with personal welfare issues including, but not
limited to, personal security, wellness, mobility and personal independence;
and
   (E)   Serve as a liaison for the city with Seminole County, state
legislature, the Florida Department fo Elder Affairs and other local or state
agencies that provide support, services or general information for the benefit
of seniors.
(Res. 423, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 1259, passed 9-6-07)
CHAPTER 31: CITY FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
31.01   City purchasing policy
Funds
   
31.10   Capital expansion trust funds
Taxation
   
31.20   Public services tax
Lien Search
   
31.30   Administrative lien search and report fee
EMS Transport Fee
   
31.35   EMS Transport Fee
Electronic Transactions
   
31.40   Electronic transactions
PURCHASING
§ 31.01 CITY PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The City of Lake Mary recognizes fair and open competition is
a basic tenet of public procurement. Open competition reduces the appearance
and opportunity for favoritism and inspires public confidence. This purchasing
policy is to ensure fair, open and equitable treatment of all vendors and to
provide guidance for the proper procurement of supplies and services for each
department within the city. The primary purpose of this policy is to obtain the
best quality material and/or services for the city's use while obtaining
maximum value for the monies spent. Price may not be the sole consideration.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply:
   “BEST VALUE.” The highest overall value based on factors that include, but
are not limited to: price, quality, design, and workmanship.
   “COMMODITY.” Any of the various supplies, material, goods, merchandise,
food, equipment, information technology, and other personal property, including
a mobile home, trailer, or other portable structure that has less than 5,000
square feet of floor space, purchased, leased, or otherwise contracted for by
the state and its agencies. The term also includes interest on deferred-payment
commodity contracts approved pursuant to F.S. 287.063 entered into by an agency
for the purchase of other commodities. However, commodities purchased for
resale are excluded from this definition. Printing of publications shall be
considered a commodity if procured pursuant to F.S. 283.33, whether purchased
for resale or not.
   “COMPETITIVE SOLICITATION.” The process of requesting and receiving sealed
bids, proposals, or replies submitted by responsive vendors in accordance with
the terms of a competitive process, regardless of the method of procurement.
   "CONTRACTOR." A person who contracts to sell commodities or contractual
services to the city.
   "CONTRACTUAL SERVICES." The term applies only to those services rendered by
individuals and firms who are independent contractors, and such services may
include, but are not limited to, evaluations; consultations; maintenance;
accounting; security; management systems; management consulting; educational
training programs; research and development studies or reports on the findings
of consultants engaged thereunder; and professional, technical, and social
services. The term does not include a contract for the furnishing of labor or
materials for the construction, renovation, repair, modification, or demolition
of a facility, building, portion of building, utility, park, parking lot, or
structure or other improvement to real property entered into pursuant to F.S.
Chapter 255 and rules adopted thereunder.
   "PURCHASING POLICY." The policy governing purchasing as adopted by the City
Commission.
   "PURCHASING PROCEDURES AND PRACTICES." The procedures, practices, rules,
regulations, or other administrative pronouncements which may be promulgated
from time to time by the City Manager to implement and adhere to the purchasing
policy.
   (C)   Purchasing function and purchasing agent. The City Manager is
designated as the Purchasing Agent. It is hereby established that the
purchasing function be provided by the Finance Department. In the absence of
the Purchasing Agent, the Finance Director, or designee as approved by the City
Manager, shall assume the responsibility and authority of the Purchasing Agent.
   (D)   Department authority. The department head is hereby granted authority
to purchase or contract for all commodities required by the city or other
departments as approved by the City Manager under cooperative purchasing
agreements. The department head shall insure that all purchasing policies,
procedures and practices are followed.
   (E)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   The following minimum standards are hereby established:
         (a)   Purchases up to $1,000. Requires the Department to obtain one
verbal quote and have true knowledge of the market pricing generally available.
The Department head or designee has the authority to approve.
         (b)   Purchases from $1,000.01 up to $5,000. Requires the Department
to obtain a minimum of three verbal quotes. The Finance Director has the
authority to approve.
         (c)   Purchases from $5.000.01 up to the Category Two threshold amount
established pursuant to F.S. § 287.017. as amended from time to time. Requires
a minimum of three written quotes from a minimum of three competitive sources.
The City Manager or designee has the authority to approve.
         (d)   Purchases in excess of the Category Two threshold amount
established pursuant to F.S. § 287.017, as amended from time to time and over
must be competitively solicited and approved by the City Commission.
      (2)   The above-stated minimum standards shall be deemed satisfied and no
further solicitation of bids or quotes is necessary if procurement is made
pursuant to purchase contracts of the city, any other Florida municipality, a
Florida county, the State of Florida, the United States General Services
Administrations, or cooperative purchasing made up of any combination of the
above, when such contracts are the result of a competitive bidding process.
   (F)   Exceptions to minimum standards. When it is determined to be in the
best interest of the city, the minimum standards contained in division (E),
above, may be waived on a case-by-case basis. Authority to waive the minimum
standards is as follows:
      (1)   The City Manager may waive the minimum standards for any commodity
or contracted service which does not exceed the Category Two threshold amount
established pursuant to F.S. 287.017, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   The City Commission may waive the minimum standards for any
commodity or contracted service.
   (G)   Emergency purchase. Emergency procurement may be made upon the
determination by the City Commission that the minimum standards contained in
division (E), above, must be suspended in order to protect the city's
interests. The City Manager may also make emergency procurement on his or her
own authority when, in his or her judgment, the city's interests would be
adversely affected by the delay required to obtain City Commission approval.
The City Manager shall report such emergency purchases to the City Commission
at the next City Commission meeting.
   (H)   Sole source purchase. "Sole source" procurements may be made upon
approval of the City Manager without complying with the minimum standards
contained in division (E), above, when only one vendor is able to provide
products or services of adequate quality or in adequate quantity to meet the
city's requirements, or where compatibility with existing systems requires
procurement from a single source.
   (I)   Evaluated Source. Products or services may be purchased from a vendor
without obtaining competitive prices when it has been determined that it is in
the best interest of the city to use that vendor. Documentation must be
attached clearly defining why it is in the best interest of the city not to
obtain quotes with each purchase and/or why this vendor is to be used when
other vendors may supply their products at a lesser price. Proven quality
differences and proximity of supplier are some examples of the reasons why a
vendor may be declared an "Evaluated Source". The City Manager must give
approval for the "Evaluated Source" designation. The "Evaluated Source"
designation will expire one year after approval and may be renewed upon
submission of a new request with documentation.
   (J)   Award criteria.
      (1)   The quoted purchase price shall not be the sole criteria used in
determining the award of a bid or proposal. Although in many cases a bid or
service will be awarded to the bidder submitting the lowest numerical bid, the
department head or City Manager is not by this section bound to award the
purchase or services to the lowest proposal or to recommend the lowest
numerical bidder, and the City Commission is not obligated to award the bid to
the lowest numerical bidder. As a general standard, bids will be awarded to the
bidder offering the product or service specified by the city at the lowest cost
to the city, all other considerations being equal; and
      (2)   The term "cost", as used in this context, is not limited to initial
purchase prices, but includes all costs required to procure a product and bring
it to the condition and location necessary for its intended use, or to procure
the scope and nature of services required to achieve the intended result. Where
appropriate and feasible, "cost" may also include the present value of expected
future maintenance, training, storage, transport and other costs that may
reasonably be associated with the procurement and use of a product or service.
In addition to cost, the City Manager may award or recommend bids based on an
evaluation of the quality of the product or service proposed, the vendor's
experience and dependability in providing similar products or services to the
city and to other customers, and other factors having a bearing on the benefits
the city can expect to receive from the product or service. Such evaluations
shall be structured so as to provide reasonable assurance that a fair and
equitable comparison of competing bids is made. However, it is recognized that
in many cases it is impossible to reduce all factors to concrete or numeric
measures, and the professional judgment of the City Manager and city staff will
often be an important component of a bid evaluation. The disposition of bids is
at the sole discretion of the City Manager, who may make bid awards when within
his or her legal authority to do so, present a bid to the City Commission for
approval, reject all bids, cancel a bid solicitation before or after the
deadline for receipt of bids, or take other action that is consistent with law
and in the best interest of the city.
   (K)   Procedures and practices. The City Manager is hereby directed to
establish a system, or amend the existing system, of uniform procurement
procedures and practices to implement this policy. Additions, deletions or
amendments to these procedures and practices shall be at the sole discretion of
the City Manager.
   (L)   The monetary limits of purchasing authority specified herein are
intended to be expressed in dollars of constant purchasing power, and may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the City Commission.
   (M)   Acquisition and disposal of real property will comply with F.S. §
166.045 and Article XII, §
12.01 of the city’s Charter. Procedures for the disposition of surplus tangible
personal property shall be adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 489, passed 2-1-90; Am. Ord. 631, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 859, passed 11-
20-97; Am. Ord. 954, passed 10-21-99; Am. Ord. 1551, passed 10-3-16)
FUNDS
§ 31.10 CAPITAL EXPANSION TRUST FUNDS.
   (A)   Creation. The following capital expansion trust funds are created:
      (1)   Police Protection Capital Expansion Trust Fund.
      (2)   Fire Protection Capital Expansion Trust Fund.
      (3)   Public Works Facilities Capital Expansion Trust Fund.
      (4)   Parks and Recreational Facilities Capital Expansion Trust Fund.
   (B)   Deposit of fees. All impact fees collected by the city under §§
150.15 through
150.20 shall be separately accounted for and shall be deposited only in the
capital trust fund for which they were collected.
   (C)   Use of funds.
      (1)   Amounts in each capital expansion trust fund shall be used only for
the purpose contained in the title of the fund and for no other purpose.
Expenditures from each fund shall be specifically approved by the City
Commission and shall be limited to the expansion or acquisition of capital
facilities or equipment made necessary by the new construction from which the
fees were collected, or for principal payments (including sinking fund
payments) on bonds to expand or acquire such facilities or equipment.
      (2)   Before authorizing an expenditure from any one of these trust
funds, the City Commission shall determine that:
         (a)   The expenditure is for capital facilities or equipment to be
used for the purpose contained in the title of the trust fund from which the
expenditure is to be made;
         (b)   The expenditure is made necessary by the new construction from
which the funds were collected; and
         (c)   The expenditure will result in reasonable benefit to the new
construction from which the funds were collected.
   (D)   Capital expansion plans. The City Commission shall prepare and
maintain a capital expansion plan for each fund. These plans shall be reviewed
at least annually during the budget review process.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87)
TAXATION
§ 31.20 PUBLIC SERVICES TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply:
   "ELECTRONIC TRANSFER." The use of the Automated Clearing House (the "ACH"),
or other electronic transfer system approved by the City Finance Director on a
case by case basis, by the seller, to send the taxes collected directly from
the seller's bank to the city's primary bank.
   "LEVY." Means and includes the imposition of the tax under F.S. §§ 166.231
and 166.232, all changes in the rate of the tax imposed under either of those
sections, and all changes of election under F.S. § 166.231.
   "REMIT," "REMITTANCE" and "REMITTING." The sending by the seller and the
receipt by the city of all taxes levied and collected pursuant to this section.
The date of receipt of such taxes by the city will be the date of the postmark,
or if by electronic transfer, the date received by the city's primary bank as
indicated on the city's bank statement.
   "RETURN." As used in division (C), means the supporting documentation
submitted periodically in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and
to be accompanied by the tax remittance, if any for that period, to the Finance
Director of the city, which at a minimum shall indicate:
      (1)   The name and address of the seller;
      (2)   The time period covered with respect to the particular return being
filed;
      (3)   The amount (in U.S. dollars) of the revenue collected from the sale
of the taxable service;
      (4)   The amount (in U.S. dollars) of any collection allowance taken in
accordance with Florida law;
      (5)   The amount (in U.S. dollars) of tax being remitted to the city, or
having been sent by electronic transfer to the city's bank, which is the
subject of the particular return being filed; and
      (6)   The name and telephone number of a person authorized by the seller
to respond to inquiries from the city concerning how the seller is
administering and collecting the tax.
   Those sellers remitting the tax by electronic transfer must nevertheless
send periodic returns to the Finance Director of the city.
   "SELLER." A person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity who sells a
service that is subject to a levy.
   "TAX" or "TAXES." The municipal public service tax authorized pursuant to
F.S. § 166.231 or F.S. § 166.232, and this section.
   (B)   Purchase of electricity and gas — Levy of tax; amount; payment
generally of tax.
      (1)   Except as provided below or as otherwise exempted by division (D),
there is hereby levied and imposed by the city on each and every purchase of
electricity and metered or bottled gas (natural liquefied petroleum gas or
manufactured gas), within the corporate limits of the city, a tax at the rate
of 10% of the total amount charged for such utility service or commodity. For
purposes of calculating the tax, the amount charged for the taxable service
shall be deemed to include any gross receipts taxes and franchise fees
separately stated on the customer's bill.
      (2)   The tax imposed by this section shall not be applied against any
fuel adjustment charge, and such charge shall be separately stated on each
bill. "FUEL ADJUSTMENT CHARGE" shall mean all increases in the cost of utility
services to the ultimate consumer resulting from an increase in the cost of
fuel to the utility subsequent to October 1, 1973.
      (3)   Subject to the provisions of division (D), such tax shall in every
case be paid by the purchaser to the seller of such electricity or metered or
bottled gas at the time of paying the charge therefor, and shall be for the use
of the city.
      (4)   Services competitive with those enumerated in division (B)(1) as
defined by this section, shall be taxed on a comparable base at the same rates.
   (C)   Collection generally and disposition of tax; discontinuance of service
upon failure of purchaser to pay tax and seller's charge.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every seller of electricity or metered or
bottled gas (natural or manufactured) to collect from the purchaser for the use
of the city the tax levied by the preceding division (B), at the time of
collecting the selling price charged for each transaction and to file a return
and remit on or before the twentieth day of each calendar month, or if the
twentieth day is either a legal holiday or is not a city business day, then on
or before the first city business day, that is not also a legal holiday,
following the twentieth day of the month, unto the Finance Director of the city
all such taxes levied and collected during the preceding calendar month. It
shall be unlawful for any seller to collect the price of any sale of
electricity or metered or bottled gas, (natural or manufactured) without, at
the same time, collecting the tax hereby levied in respect to such sales,
unless such seller shall elect to assume and pay such tax without collecting
the same from the purchaser. Any seller failing to collect such tax at the time
of collecting the price of any sale where the seller has not elected to assume
and pay such tax shall be liable to the city for the amount of such tax in like
manner as if the same had actually been paid to the seller, and the City
Manager shall bring all proceedings in the name of the city as may be necessary
for the recovery of such tax; provided, however, that the seller shall not be
liable for the payment of such tax upon uncollected charges. If any purchaser
shall fail, neglect or refuse to pay to the seller the seller's charge and the
tax hereby imposed and as hereby required on account of the sale for which such
charge is made, or either, the seller shall have and is hereby vested with the
right, power and authority to immediately discontinue further service to such
purchaser until the tax and the seller's bill shall have been paid in full.
      (2)   (a)   Sellers remitting tax collections of $10,000 or more, on
average, per month over a period of three consecutive months shall thereafter,
beginning in the month immediately following the third consecutive month, make
all tax remittances to the city's primary bank by electronic transfer using the
ACH system, or other electronic means as may be approved by the Finance
Director on a case by case basis. Those sellers meeting this criteria shall
continue remittances by electronic transfer regardless of whether the seller's
average collections fall below the $10,000 threshold for any subsequent
consecutive three month period.
         (b)   All other sellers may remit by hand-delivery, postal service or
electronic transfer. However, if a seller elects to remit by electronic
transfer, that seller shall thereafter always remit by electronic transfer.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in the event
the total amount of tax anticipated to be collected within a calendar quarter
does not exceed $120, the seller of such service may, with the written
authorization of the city, remit the taxes collected during such calendar
quarter to the city quarterly. In such case, the tax shall be due on or before
the twentieth day of the month following the end of the calendar quarter in
which the taxes were collected.
   (D)   Exemptions and exclusions from payment of tax.
      (1)   Purchases by the United States Government, this state, and all
counties, school districts, and municipalities of the state, and by public
bodies exempted by law or court order, are exempt from the tax authorized by
division (B). However, governmental bodies which sell or resell taxable service
to non-exempt end users must collect and remit the tax levied under division
(B).
      (2)   The following purchases of bottled gas are hereby excluded from the
tax levied by division (B):
         (a)   Purchases of natural gas, manufactured gas by a public or
private utility for resale or for use as fuel in the generation of electricity.
      (3)   Purchases by any recognized church in the city for use exclusively
for church purposes are hereby exempt from the tax authorized by division (B).
   (E)   Computation of tax when seller collects the tax in monthly periods. In
all cases where the seller of electricity or metered or bottled gas, (natural
or manufactured) collects the tax in monthly periods, the tax hereby levied may
be computed on the aggregate amount of sales during such period; provided, that
the amount of tax to be collected shall be to the nearest whole cent to the
amount computed, and shall not exceed the rates set forth in division (B) for
any monthly period on each separate service. Such service shall be classified
as a separate service in case of metered electricity or gas whenever an
individual meter is used for the measuring thereof.
   (F)   Records to be kept by seller; general administrative audit plan for
enforcement of ordinance; authority of city to audit such records.
      (1)   Each and every seller of electricity or metered or bottled gas,
(natural or manufactured) shall keep at its principal place of business
complete records showing all sales in the city of such commodities or service,
which records shall show the price charged upon such sale, the amount of taxes
charged upon each sale, the date of the sale, the date of payment thereof, the
date such tax was remitted to the city, the period of time covered by such
remittance and other related information that may be required to verify proper
collection and remittance of said taxes.
      (2)   To assure proper administration of the provisions of this chapter,
the city may, where possible and practical, conduct a periodic audit of such
sales records of all businesses in connection with which the tax is imposed
under this chapter. Failure to conduct such an audit will not eliminate the
liability of the seller for collection and remittance of such tax.
      (3)   Pursuant to F.S. § 166.234, the city may, during the seller's
normal business hours at the official location of the seller's books and
records, audit the records of any seller of a service that is taxable by the
city under F.S. § 166.231 or F.S. § 166.232, for the purpose of ascertaining
whether taxable services have been provided or the correctness of any return
that has been filed or payment that has been made, if the city's power to
assess tax or grant a refund is not barred by the applicable limitations
period. Each such seller must provide to the city, upon 60 days' written notice
of intent to audit from the city, access to applicable records for such
service, except an extension of this 60-day period must be granted if
reasonably requested by the seller. The seller may at its option waive the 60-
day notice requirement. If either the city or the seller requires an additional
extension, it must give notice to the other no less than 30 days before the
existing extension expires, except in cases of bona fide emergency or waiver of
the notice requirement by the other party. In an audit, the seller is liable
only for its taxable accounts collected which correspond to the information
provided to it by the city under F.S. § 166.233(3). As used in this section,
"APPLICABLE RECORDS" means records kept in the ordinary course of business
which establish the collection and remittance of taxes due. Such applicable
records may be provided to the city on an electronic medium if agreed to by the
seller and the city. In accordance with F.S. § 166.231(9)(c), any information
received by the city or its agent in connection with such audit is confidential
and exempt from the provisions of F.S. § 119.07(1).
   (G)   Interest and penalties for late payments and late returns. Any seller
of electricity or metered or bottled gas (manufactured or natural) failing to
remit to the city on or before the twentieth day of each calendar month or
quarter, as applicable, or if the twentieth day is either a legal holiday or is
not a city business day, then on or before the first city business day, that is
not also a legal holiday, following the twentieth day of the month or quarter,
as applicable, all such taxes levied and collected during the preceding tax
period shall be liable for interest on the unpaid amount of tax at the rate of
1% per month from the date the tax was due until paid. In addition, penalties
will be assessed at a rate of 5% per month of the delinquent tax, not to exceed
a total penalty of 25%, except that in no event will the penalty for failure to
file a return be less than $15. In the case of a fraudulent return or a willful
intent to evade payment of the tax, the seller making such fraudulent return or
willfully attempting to evade payment of the tax, shall be liable for a
specific penalty of 100% of the tax. Interest and penalties shall be computed
on the net tax due after application of any overpayments. The interest and
penalties shall accrue from the due date until the date such taxes are paid,
provided however, that the Finance Director may settle or compromise any
interest due pursuant to this section as is reasonable under the circumstances.
   (H)   Costs incurred in pursuit of tax or information as a result of a
violation of any of this section. The city is entitled to and may assess
against sellers not complying with any provision of this chapter, a fee being
based upon the actual costs incurred by the city in collecting the tax or
information due.
(Ord. 237, passed l0-3-85; Am. Ord. 320, passed 9-3-87; Am. Ord. 781, passed 2-
1-96; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
LIEN SEARCH
§ 31.30 ADMINISTRATIVE LIEN SEARCH AND REPORT FEE.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to administratively establish
and charge a fee for provision of a lien search and report. This authorization
specifically applies to requests for searches and reports with regard to debts
owed to the city for any of the following:
      (1)   Code compliance penalties, fines, fees, costs and interest;
      (2)   Water, sewer and reclaimed water utility charges, rates, fees,
costs and interest;
      (3)   Recyclable materials and solid waste penalties, charges, rates,
fees, costs and interest;
      (4)   Permit fees, penalties, fines, costs and interest owed to the city
pursuant to the building codes or land development regulations adopted by the
city;
      (5)   Principal, interest, fees and costs owed to the city resulting from
loans or other assistance provided by the city;
      (6)   Rates, fees, costs and interest owed to the city resulting from
pre-annexation agreements or municipal services agreements or both; and
      (7)   Fees, costs, fines, penalties and interest due to the city
resulting from security alarm system regulations.
   (B)   At the discretion of the City Manager, the City Manager is further
authorized to use a vendor (as opposed to city staff) to provide the necessary
services for a lien search and report. The City Manager is authorized to
establish and charge a fee in an amount necessary to hold the taxpayers
harmless from the reasonable costs incurred for provision of a lien search and
report. In no event, however, will the lien search and report fee exceed $100
for each search conducted and report provided. Said fee will be due and payable
to the city in advance of the provision of the lien search and report to the
requesting person or entity.
(Ord. 1629, passed 9-3-20)
EMS TRANSPORT FEE
§ 31.35 EMS TRANSPORT FEE.
   The medical transport fee shall be set as per the EMS Transport Rate of
Seminole County and shall automatically adjust per authorized adjustments by
Seminole County. These fees currently are:
   BLS Emergency          $750.00
   ALS-1 Emergency          $800.00
   ALS-2 Emergency          $800.00
   Mileage            $13.00 per mile
(Res. 1012, passed 10-18-18; Am. Res. 1057, passed 5-18-23)
ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS
§ 31.40 ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The following guidelines are to be followed for credit/debit cards, or
electronic check transactions:
      (1)   Utility bills. Credit card users will be charged a flat fee of
$3.50 with a maximum payment of $400. Payment by electronic check will be a
flat fee of $1.95.
      (2)   All other payments. Such as permits, business tax receipts, use of
recreational facilities, and miscellaneous payments, will be charged 2.95% of
the total transaction amount with a minimum fee of $1.95. Payment by electronic
check will be a flat fee of $1.95.
(Res. 998, passed 7-27-17)
CHAPTER 32: COUNCIL AND CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Compensation and expense allowances for members of Commission
   
32.02   Appointments by Mayor or Commission
City Commission
   
32.10   Charter provisions
   
32.11   Terms used in code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSE ALLOWANCES FOR MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   It has become necessary for members of the commission to expend their
personal funds to discharge their duties for the city. To partially repay these
individuals for their expense, the city shall compensate each City Commissioner
at a rate of $725 per month and the Mayor at a rate of $875 per month. The City
Manager is authorized to issue city funds in payment of this compensation on
the last date of the month for which the compensation is granted. No advance
compensation shall be permitted without prior approval of the City Commission.
   (B)   From time to time, members of the Commission may be required to incur
expenses in connection with city business. Such expenses shall be reimbursed as
provided by F.S. § 112.061, relating to per diem and travel expenses of public
officers and specified currently in Res. No. 348, which may be amended from
time to time by the City Commission.
(Ord. 6, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 235, passed 9-30-85; Am. Ord. 317, passed 9-
3-87; Am. Ord. 329, passed 11-5-87; Am. Ord. 654, passed 7-15-93; Am. Ord. 956,
passed 10-21-99; Am. Ord. 1036, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1148, passed 10-21-04)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation and expenses of Mayor and Commissioners, see Charter, section
6.03
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENTS BY MAYOR OR COMMISSION.
   The Mayor or any Commission member, when designated to make appointments
pursuant to the ordinances of the city, shall make such appointments of members
of any boards, commissions, offices, agencies, or any person acting on behalf
of the city, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the City Commission
except as stated in the Charter, or as otherwise provided by the Constitution
of the state, the general laws of the state, or as otherwise provided by this
section.
(Ord. 41, passed 3-18-76; Am. Ord. 50, passed 12-9-76; Am. Ord. 654, passed 7-
15-93)
CITY COMMISSION
§ 32.10 CHARTER PROVISIONS.
   For provisions concerning City Commission, see Charter
Article IV.
(Am. Ord. 654, passed 7-15-93)
§ 32.11 TERMS USED IN CODE.
   Wherever the words COUNCIL, CITY COUNCIL, or COUNCIL MEMBER appear in this
code they shall be taken to mean CITY COMMISSION or COMMISSIONER.
(Am. Ord. 654, passed 7-15-93)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Departments
   
33.02   Department heads
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENTS.
   The following Departments are hereby established: Fire Department, Police
Department, Finance Department, Parks and Recreation Department, General
Government, City Clerk, Community Development Department, and Public Works
Department. The establishment of additional departments shall be by resolution
in accordance with the city's Charter.
(Ord. 655, passed 7-15-93; Am. Ord. 1420, passed 4-21-11)
§ 33.02 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   DEPARTMENT HEADS shall be defined as Fire Chief, Police Chief, Finance
Director, Parks and Recreation Director, City Clerk, Community Development
Director and Public Works Director. The creation, elimination, employment or
termination of department heads shall be in accordance with the city's Charter.
(Ord. 655, passed 7-15-93; Am. Ord. 1420, passed 4-21-11)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Short title
   
34.02   Scope
   
34.03   Date; proclamation
   
34.04   General elections
   
34.05   Multiple candidates
   
34.06   Filling of vacancies
   
34.07   Election board
   
34.08   Elections to be nonpartisan
   
34.09   Qualification of candidates; fees
   
34.10   Registration of voters
   
34.11   Wards and precincts
   
34.12   Voting places
   
34.13   Voting machines
   
34.14   Absentee voting
   
34.15   Canvass of returns
   
34.16   Duties of City Clerk
   
34.17   Election violations
Statutory reference:
   State Election Code, see F.S. Chs. 97 through 106
§ 34.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the election code of the
city.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
§ 34.02 SCOPE.
   At all elections at which any question, including bond issues, is submitted
to the electors, this chapter shall apply to the extent that it can be made
applicable and is not otherwise governed by state law.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
§ 34.03 DATE; PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   The regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday following
the first Monday in November of each year.
   (B)   The Mayor shall issue a proclamation calling the municipal elections
provided for in this chapter. The proclamation shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city once each week for two consecutive
weeks prior to the municipal election.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-20-83; Am. Ord. 183, passed 3-
15-84; Am. Ord. 335, passed 11-5-87)
§ 34.04 GENERAL ELECTIONS.
   Municipal elections held as provided in this chapter shall be general
municipal elections. The successful candidates shall be the duly-elected
officers for their respective offices and shall take office within seven days
of certification of the election.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-20-83; Am. Ord. 622, passed
12-3-92)
§ 34.05 MULTIPLE CANDIDATES.
   In the event that multiple candidates shall qualify for election to a single
office, and no candidate shall receive a majority vote, then the two candidates
receiving the most votes shall have a run-off election to decide the winner of
the election for that office. The run-off election, if required, shall be held
on the first Tuesday in December, following the general election.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-20-83; Am. Ord. 623, passed
12-3-92)
§ 34.06 FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   In the event any vacancy occurs in the office of any member of the City
Commission, the vacancy will be filled in accordance with Section 4.04 and
Section 4.09 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 624, passed 12-3-92)
§ 34.07 ELECTION BOARD.
   To the extent that the city conducts a city election at such time other than
concurrently with a county-wide election or at such time as the county and the
County Supervisor of Elections shall not be able to provide poll worker
services during county-wide elections to the city pursuant to Section 3 of the
poll worker and election assistance interlocal agreement, or such other
agreement or agreements as from time to time may be made, the Mayor shall
appoint an election board for the municipal elections as the same may be
provided for by law, charter, ordinance, or proclamation of the city. The names
of the election board shall be included in the proclamation for the holding of
the municipal election. The Mayor shall fill any vacancy in the election board
by appointment. The compensation of the members of the election board shall be
as established by the City Commission, by ordinance or resolution
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 77, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-
20-83; Am. Ord. 383, passed 7-7-88)
§ 34.08 ELECTIONS TO BE NONPARTISAN.
   Municipal elections shall be nonpartisan and all officers shall be elected
without reference to their political, faith or party affiliations.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
§ 34.09 QUALIFICATION OF CANDIDATES; FEES.
   (A)   Every candidate for office in municipal elections shall be a
registered and qualified elector of the city at the time of qualifying as a
candidate with the City Clerk, by filing qualifying papers in accordance with
state statutes and paying the qualifying fee and election assessment provided
for in division (B) below. The application shall be filed and the qualifying
fee paid during regular business hours any time after 12:00 noon on the first
filing date, which shall be 71 days prior to the municipal election, but not
later than 12:00 noon on the sixty-seventh day prior to the municipal election,
excluding Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   All candidates for City Commission member and for Mayor, qualifying as
provided in division (A) above, shall pay a qualifying fee of $25. In addition,
all candidates qualifying for municipal office shall pay an election assessment
equal to 1% of the annual salary of the office sought.
   (C)   Pursuant to F.S. § 99.093(2), candidates who are unable to pay the
election assessment without imposing an undue burden on their personal
resources or resources otherwise available to them shall, upon written
certification of that inability given under oath to the City Clerk, be exempt
from paying the election assessment.
   (D)   The qualifying fee and the election assessment shall be paid to the
City Clerk and be deposited by the Clerk into the general fund of the city.
Within 30 days after the close of qualifying, the City Clerk shall forward the
elections assessment to the Department of State.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-l2-73; Am. Ord. 488, passed 2-1-90; Am. Ord. 563, passed 9-
19-91; Am. Ord. 788, passed 4-18-96; Am. Ord. 1122, passed 3-4-04)
Statutory reference:
   Registration of voters, see F.S. §§ 97.011 et seq.
§ 34.10 REGISTRATION OF VOTERS.
   (A)   Voters in a municipal election shall be registered in the manner
provided for by state law. All voters residing within the municipal limits of
the city and registered by the Supervisor of Elections to vote in the county,
shall be eligible to vote in all municipal elections.
   (B)   The registration books shall close 30 days prior to the date the
election is held.
(Ord. 77, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-20-83)
§ 34.11 WARDS AND PRECINCTS.
   The city is to be considered as one ward and one precinct for the purpose of
municipal elections. The City Clerk and the Elections Supervisor shall make
proper arrangements for qualified voters residing within the city limits to
vote in the municipal elections.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 77, passed 3-1-79)
§ 34.12 VOTING PLACES.
   Voting places for municipal elections shall be designated by the Commission.
The location of the voting places shall be included in the Mayor's
proclamation, provided for in §
34.03(B).
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 162, passed 1-20-83)
§ 34.13 VOTING MACHINES.
   Voting machines shall be used for voting in the municipal elections provided
for in this chapter in the same manner as they are used for voting in state and
county primaries. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to represent the
city in inspecting voting machines before they are locked. The City Clerk is
further authorized and directed to prepare and have printed and available for
the conduct of municipal elections, proper ballots to be inserted in the voting
machines and proper identifying slips to be signed by voters who participate in
the election. The City Clerk is authorized and directed to prepare a form of
certificate of returns for all elections.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
§ 34.14 ABSENTEE VOTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSENT ELECTOR. Any registered and qualified elector who, due to physical
disability, is unable, without another's assistance, to attend the polls, or
any qualified elector wherever he or she may be, except persons confined in
prison or jail, so long as he or she will not be in the county during the hours
the polls are open for voting on the day of any election. The person may cast
an absentee ballot upon compliance with the absentee election provision of
division (B) below.
   (B)   Absentee voting in the municipal elections provided for in this
chapter shall be permitted and governed by state law.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
Statutory reference:
   Absent voters, see F.S. §§ 101.62 et seq.
§ 34.15 CANVASS OF RETURNS.
   (A)   Returns shall be canvassed by the city canvassing board to canvass the
returns in municipal elections. The city canvassing board shall consist of the
City Clerk and two members of the City Commission to be designated by the
Commission. The canvassing board shall canvass the returns and issue their
certificate in the same manner as the county canvassing board meets to canvass
returns in the state and county primaries, and issue its certificate of
election to the successful candidate. The certificate of the canvassing board
shall be issued in triplicate; one copy to be deposited with the City Clerk,
one copy delivered to the City Commission, and one copy posted on the public
bulletin board in the city hall. The certificate shall be recorded in the
minutes of any meeting of the City Commission held immediately following the
filing of the certificate.
   (B)   In any municipal election conducted by the County Supervisor of
Elections for and on behalf of the city the City Commission waives the
requirement that returns shall be canvassed by a city canvassing board as
provided by division (A) above, and in place and instead of same, the City
Clerk may receive and record the report of tabulation as prepared by the County
Supervisor of Elections and canvassed by the Seminole County Canvassing Board
as the official return for the city election.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73; Am. Ord. 533, passed 11-1-90; Am. Ord. 816, passed
10-17-96)
§ 34.16 DUTIES OF CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk is authorized and directed to have prepared any forms and
perform any ministerial duties required by this chapter by necessary
implication, in order to accomplish the objectives of this chapter, and the
intent of the City Commission in adopting it.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
§ 34.17 ELECTION VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall register or vote who is not lawfully qualified to do so;
otherwise vote illegally; prevent any qualified person from voting; substitute
an illegal ballot for a legal one; or forge any registration record,
registration certificate, or report in any election. No person, being an
election officer or official of the city, shall fail to count any legal ballot
as it was cast, count any ballot known to be illegal, permit any person to vote
or register knowing him to be disqualified, make or promulgate any false
certificate or canvass of any election, or otherwise do any act which is
intended to prevent a full, true, and correct report of the true expression of
all the persons who are qualified to vote and have attempted to exercise their
right to vote. No person shall violate any other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-12-73)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Incorporation by reference
   
35.02   Criminal history screening applicable to individuals in positions
deemed critical to security or public safety
§ 35.01 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A) The personnel policies attached to Ordinance 1596, passed September 20,
2018, are hereby incorporated herein by reference and adopted as the personnel
policies for all employees of this city.
   (B) Any amendments to the personnel policies may be proposed, reviewed and
approved by either the City Manager or the City Commission, as appropriate. If
approved by the City Commission, the amendment will be by resolution. The City
Manager is empowered to amend the personnel policies, after providing notice to
all employees and the City Commission.
(Ord. 495, passed 3-15-90; Am. Ord. 1596, passed 9-20-18)
§ 35.02 CRIMINAL HISTORY SCREENING APPLICABLE TO INDIVIDUALS IN POSITIONS
DEEMED CRITICAL TO SECURITY OR PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   The city has identified each “position of employment” deemed to be
critical to security or public safety. “Position of employment” is not limited
to true employees but has been liberally construed to include each individual
who is “appointed” to the position; and also includes each individual who has
entered into a contract with the city and will be afforded any opportunity
which could pose a risk to security or public safety. These positions of
employment are identified by the City Commission by resolution.
   (B)   Each individual to whom a conditional offer of employment is made for
employment with the city in any of the listed positions identified as critical
to security or public safety in a city resolution shall be fingerprinted, and
those fingerprints shall be submitted to the Florida Department of Law
Enforcement (for a state criminal history screening) and also to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (for a national criminal history screening). The
information obtained from each respective criminal history screening will be
used to determine the applicant’s eligibility for employment (or continued
employment) to the respective position; or, if then employed, continued
employment in any position that is required to successfully pass the respective
criminal history screening.
   (C)   City contracts may mandate, where approved by the City Commission,
that each person in a position deemed to be critical to security or public
safety shall undergo criminal history screening; information obtained from, or
as a result of, any such screening can be used by the city as the sole basis to
place limitations on the places (location) where such individuals may have
access.
   (D)   This section shall be liberally construed. This section does not
affect any law, any other ordinance, or any rule or regulation related to
criminal history records checks, except that pursuant to F.S. § 166.0442 and
F.S. § 112.011(2)(c), each individual applying for city employment (or who is
then employed by the city) in a position that is deemed critical to security or
to public safety, is not protected by F.S. § 112.011, and therefore, such
individual can be denied employment (or if then already employed, the
employment can be terminated) if that individual has been or is convicted of
any felony or any misdemeanor of the first degree, whether or not the
conviction is related to that employment.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-22-24)
CHAPTER 36: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 37: CODE ENFORCEMENT CITATIONS
Section
   
37.01   Intent
   
37.02   Definitions
   
37.03   Designation of code enforcement officers
   
37.04   Authority of code enforcement officers
   
37.05   Citation procedures
   
37.06   Delivery of warning notices and citations
   
37.07   Violation classification and civil penalty
   
37.08   Schedule of violations
   
37.09   Procedures to pay or contest citations
   
37.10   Citation contents
   
37.11   Disposition of citations and civil penalties
   
37.12   Provisions supplemental
§ 37.01 INTENT.
   The city hereby creates a supplemental and additional method of enforcing
its codes and ordinances by the issuance of citations for violation of city
codes or ordinances. The provisions of this chapter may be used for the
enforcement of any city code or ordinance, or for the enforcement of all city
codes and ordinances as provided by law. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall prohibit the city from enforcing its codes or ordinances by any other
means.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Lake Mary.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee or agent of the city who has been
designated by the city to enforce the city's codes and ordinances, the fire
marshall, or any law enforcement officer of the city.
   PERSON. Individuals, associations, joint ventures, partnerships,
corporations and/or any other groups or combinations.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.03 DESIGNATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The City Manager is authorized to designate certain city employees or agents
as code enforcement officers. The training and qualifications of the employees
or agents designated as code enforcement officers shall be determined by the
City Manager. Designation as a code enforcement officer does not provide the
code enforcement officer with the power to arrest or subject the code
enforcement officer to the provisions of F.S. §§ 943.085 - 943.255.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.04 AUTHORITY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   All code enforcement officers are authorized to issue a citation to a person
when, based upon personal investigation, the code enforcement officer has
reasonable cause to believe that the person has committed a civil infraction in
violation of a city code or ordinance and that the county court will hear the
charge.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.05 CITATION PROCEDURES.
   Prior to issuing a citation, a code enforcement officer shall provide a
warning notice to the person that the person has committed a violation of a
code or ordinance and shall establish a reasonable time period within which the
person must correct the violation. Such time period shall be no more than 30
days. If, upon personal investigation, a code enforcement officer finds that a
person has not corrected the violation within the time period, a code
enforcement officer may issue a citation to the person who has committed the
violation. A code enforcement officer does not have to provide the person with
a reasonable time period to correct the violation prior to issuing a citation
and may immediately issue a citation if the code enforcement officer has reason
to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, or if the violation is irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.06 DELIVERY OF WARNING NOTICES AND CITATIONS.
   (A)   A copy of warning notices and citations shall be provided to the
alleged violator by hand-delivery by the code enforcement officer. In the
absence of the alleged violator, the warning notice or citation shall be
delivered to the alleged violator by leaving a copy of the warning notice or
citation at the alleged violator's usual place of residence with any person
residing therein who is above 15 years of age and informing such person of the
contents of the warning notice or citation or the warning notice or citation
shall be provided by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (B)   Issuance of a warning notice or citation to a person doing business
may be accomplished by leaving a copy at the person's place of business, during
regular business hours, with any employee and informing the employee of the
contents or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. Each
employee of a person doing business shall be deemed to be an agent of the
person doing business for service of warning notices and citations.
   (C)   Whenever an alleged violator is required to do some act within a
prescribed period after a warning notice or citation is delivered by mail,
three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.07 VIOLATION CLASSIFICATION AND CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violations of city codes or ordinances and the applicable civil
penalties shall be classified as follows:
 
Violation Classification Civil Penalty
CLASS I                  $ 50.00
CLASS II                 100.00
CLASS III                200.00
CLASS IV                 300.00
 
      (2)   City codes and ordinances subsequently enacted or amended may set
forth the applicable civil penalty for violations by designating the
appropriate violation classification.
   (B)   Each violation of a city code or ordinance in the Schedule of
Violations in §
37.08, herein, is a separate civil infraction. Each day such violation shall
continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate civil infraction.
   (C)   Civil penalties received by the county court from violators of city
codes or ordinances shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Court
costs shall be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. The civil penalties
set forth above include said court costs.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.08 SCHEDULE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violation of the following city codes or ordinances is a civil
infraction for which a citation may be issued:
Chapter/Section Code Requirement Class
Chapter/Section        Code Requirement                                   Class
§                     Unlawful discharge into storm drainage system      II
50.010
§                     Failure to connect to sewer system                 I
50.012
§                     Failure to connect to water works system           I
51.01
§                     Illegal connection to water works system           II
51.02
Chapter 54             Failure to comply with regulation of fertilizer    I
                       application
§                     Failure to comply with regulation of the sale of   I
70.04                  motor vehicles, trailers, boats and equipment
§                     Parking in fire lane                               I
70.27(A)(1)(p)
Chapter 90             Animal control and protection ordinance violations I
§                     Abandoned refrigerators                            I
91.02
§ 91.06               Abandoned vehicles                                 I
§ 91.07               Wrecked or discarded vehicles                      I
§§                   Noise violations                                   I
91.15 et seq.
§                     Solid waste, junk and trash violations             I
91.34
§                     Collecting solid waste without franchise agreement II
91.41
§                     Collecting recovered materials and recyclable C&D   
91.42                  without permit
§ 91.48               Container or refuse bins required                  I
§ 91.49               Placement, containment and bundling of solid waste I
                       violations
§ 91.50(C)            Scavenging or taking material from refuse bin/     I
                       container
§                     Disabled vehicle violations                        I
91.66
§                     Lawn maintenance violations                        I
91.75
§                     Park hour violations                               I
92.01
§                     Animals protected in parks violations              I
92.02
§                     Watercraft violations                              I
92.03
§                     Alcoholic beverages violations                     I
92.04
§                     Conduct at recreational facilities                 I
92.07
§                     Standard fire prevention code violations           II
95.01
§                     Alarm system violations                            I
96.02
§                     Failure to have valid business tax receipt         II
111.01(B)
§                     Precious or fabricated metal registration          II
112.03                 violations
§                     Failure to hold precious or fabricated metal 15    II
112.04                 days
§                     Dealing with minors prohibited                     II
112.05
§                     Precious or fabricated metal storage violations    II
112.06
§                     Failure to have transient solicitors permit        I
113.01
§                     Rummage sale violations                            I
113.02
§                     Hours of sale, service or consumption of alcohol   II
114.01                 violations
§ 116.02              Violation of retail sales regulations              I
§                     Failure to obtain permit                           III
150.06
§                     Failure to post uniform building number            II
150A.05
§                     Illegal parking of vehicles over one ton           I
154.18
§                     Failure to have valid home occupational license    II
154.82
§                     Failure to comply with conditions, limitations or  I
154.81                 restrictions of home occupational license
Chapter 155 Appendix I Sign code violations                               I
§                     Failure to maintain landscaping                    I
157.06
§                     Removal of tree without a permit                   IV
157.11
§                     Violation of tree protection area                  II
157.16
Ord. 726               Failure to obtain right-of- way use permit         III
 
   (b)   The citations issued pursuant to this chapter may be contested in
county court.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95; Am. Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17; Am. Ord. 1607, passed
2-21-17)
§ 37.09 PROCEDURES TO PAY OR CONTEST CITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person cited for a violation under this chapter shall, within 30
days of issuance of the citation:
      (1)   Pay the civil penalty set forth in the schedule of violations at
the Clerk of the Circuit Court's Office; or
      (2)   Receive a court date to contest the citation in county court.
   (B)   If the person cited pays the civil penalty as provided in division (A)
(1) of this section, he shall be deemed to have admitted the civil infraction
and to have waived his right to a hearing to contest the citation.
   (C)   If the person cited receives a court date as provided in division (A)
(2) of this section, he shall appear on said court date to contest the citation
in county court and he shall be deemed to have waived his right to the civil
penalty set forth in the schedule of violations and shall be subject for each
violation to the maximum civil penalty which shall not exceed $500 plus any
applicable court costs.
   (D)   If the person cited fails to pay the civil penalty within the time
allowed, or fails to afar in court to contest the citation, he shall be deemed
to have waived his right to contest the citation and judgment may be entered
against the person for each violation for an amount up to the maximum civil
penalty not to exceed $500 plus any applicable court costs.
   (E)   Any person who willfully refuses to sign and accept a citation issued
by a code enforcement officer or refuses to provide the information required in
the citation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable
as provided in F.S. §§ 775.082 or 775.083.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.10 CITATION CONTENTS.
   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall be in a form
prescribed by the City and shall contain:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance.
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued.
      (3)   The date and time the civil infraction was committed.
      (4)   The facts constituting reasonable cause.
      (5)   The number or section of the code or ordinance violated.
      (6)   The name and authority of the code enforcement officer.
      (7)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
penalty or to contest the citation.
      (8)   The applicable civil penalty if the person elects not to contest
the citation.
      (9)   The applicable civil penalty if the person elects to contest the
citation.
      (10)   A conspicuous statement that if the person fails to pay the civil
penalty within the time allowed, or fails to appear in court to contest the
citation, he shall be deemed to have waived his right to contest the citation
and that, in such case, judgment may be entered against the person for an
amount up to the maximum civil penalty.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.11 DISPOSITION OF CITATIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall deposit the original citation and one copy of the citation with
the clerk of the circuit court;
   (B)   Provide the alleged violator with one copy; and
   (C)   Retain one copy in the code enforcement officer's department file.
   (D)   All civil penalties received by the county court from violators of
city codes or ordinances shall be paid into the general fund of the city. All
court costs shall be retained by the clerk of the circuit court.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
§ 37.12 PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL.
   It is the legislative intent of this chapter to provide an additional and
supplemental means of obtaining compliance with city codes and ordinances.
Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the city from enforcing its codes or
ordinances by any other means.
(Ord. 751, passed 4-20-95)
CHAPTER 38: LOCAL IMPROVEMENT AND ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Interpretation; title and citation
   
38.03   General findings
Assessment Areas
   
38.10   Definition of assessment areas
   
38.11   Landowner petition process
Local Improvement and Essential Service Assessments
   
38.20   Authority
   
38.21   Initial resolution
   
38.22   Assessment roll
   
38.23   Notice by publication
   
38.24   Notice by mail
   
38.25   Adoption of final resolution
   
38.26   Annual resolution
   
38.27   Effect of resolutions
   
38.28   Liens of assessments
   
38.29   Revisions
   
38.30   Procedural irregularities
   
38.31   Correction of errors and omissions
Collection of Assessments
   
38.40   Method of collection
   
38.41   Alternative method of collection
   
38.42   Responsibility for enforcement
   
38.43   Government property
Issuance of Obligations
   
38.55   General authority
   
38.56   Terms of the obligations
   
38.57   Variable rate obligations
   
38.58   Temporary obligations
   
38.59   Anticipation notes
   
38.60   Taxing power not pledged
   
38.61   Trust funds
   
38.62   Remedies of holders
   
38.63   Refunding obligations
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
38.75   Alternative method
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ANNUAL LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.” The resolution described
in §
38.26, approving the local improvement assessment roll for a specific fiscal
year.
   “ANNUAL ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.” The resolution described
in §
38.26, approving the essential service assessment roll for a specific fiscal
year.
   “ASSESSMENT.” A special assessment lawfully imposed by the city against
property located within an assessment area for the payment of the project cost
of local improvements or the operating cost of essential services.
   “ASSESSMENT AREA.”  Any of the areas created by resolution of the City
Commission pursuant to §
38.10, that specially benefit from the acquisition and construction of any
local improvements or the provisions of essential services.
   “ASSESSMENT UNIT.”  The unit or criteria utilized to determine the
assessment for each parcel of property as set forth in the initial local
improvement assessment resolution or the initial essential service assessment
resolution. “ASSESSMENT UNITS” may include, by way of example only and not
limitation, one or a combination of the following: front footage, platted lots
or parcels of record, land area, improvement area, equivalent residential
connections, permitted land use, trip generation rates, rights to future trip
generation capacity under applicable concurrency management regulations, or any
other physical characteristic or reasonably expected use of the property that
is logically related to the local improvement or essential service to be funded
from proceeds of the assessment.
   “CAPITAL COST.” All or any portion of the expenses that are properly
attributable to the acquisition, design, construction, installation,
reconstruction, renewal or replacement (including demolition, environmental
mitigation and relocation) of local improvements and imposition of the related
assessments under generally accepted accounting principles; and including
reimbursement to the city for any funds advanced for capital cost and interest
on any interfund or intrafund loan for such purposes. As used herein, “CAPITAL
COSTS” may include, by way of example only and not limitation:
      (1)   Building construction costs;
      (2)   Street construction costs;
      (3)   Utility construction expenses;
      (4)   Water mains;
      (5)   Sewer mains;
      (6)   New street paving or widening; and
      (7)   Any other capital costs attributable to the local improvement.
   “CITY.” The City of Lake Mary, Florida.
   “CITY CLERK.” The official custodian of all city records and papers of an
official character as set forth in Article VIII of the City Charter, or their
designee.
   “CITY COMMISSION.”  The City Commission for the city.
   “CITY MANAGER.”  The administrative and executive head of the city as set
forth in Article VII of the City Charter, or their designee.
   “ESSENTIAL SERVICE.” The operation and maintenance of a local improvement.
   “ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT.”  An annual special assessment imposed by the
city pursuant to §
38.20 hereof upon each parcel of property within the assessment area.
   “ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT ROLL.” The special assessment roll relating to
essential service assessments, approved by a final essential service assessment
resolution or an annual essential service assessment resolution pursuant to §§
38.25 and
38.26 hereof.
   “ESSENTIAL SERVICE COST.”  All expenses that are properly attributable to
maintenance of a local improvement (excluding amounts paid or reimbursed by
FDOT) under generally accepted accounting principles, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, reimbursement to the city for any
monies advanced for essential service, and interest on any interfund loan for
such purposes. “ESSENTIAL SERVICE COST” can also include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   The cost of physical construction, reconstruction or completion of
any required facility or improvement;
      (2)   The costs incurred in any required acquisition or purchase;
      (3)   The cost of all labor, materials, machinery, and equipment;
      (4)   The cost of fuel, parts, supplies, maintenance, repairs, and
utilities;
      (5)   The cost of computer services, data processing, and communications;
      (6)   The cost of all lands and interest therein, leases, property
rights, easements, and franchises of any nature whatsoever;
      (7)   The cost of any indemnity or surety bonds and premiums for
insurance;
      (8)   The cost of salaries, volunteer pay, workers’ compensation
insurance, or other employment benefits;
      (9)   The cost of uniforms, training, travel, and per diem;
      (10)   The cost of construction plans and specifications, surveys and
estimates of costs;
      (11)   The cost of engineering, financial, legal and other professional
services;
      (12)   The cost of compliance with any contracts or agreements entered
into by the city relating to the provisions of said services;
      (13)   All costs associated with the structure, implementation,
collection, and enforcement of the assessments, including any service charges
of the Clerk, Tax Collector, or Property Appraiser, and delinquent amounts from
prior impositions, and amounts necessary to offset discounts received for early
payment of assessments pursuant to the Uniform Assessment Collection Act or for
early payment of assessments collected pursuant to §
38.41;
      (14)   All other costs and expenses necessary or incidental to the
acquisition, provision, or construction of the service, facility, or program to
be funded by the assessment, and such other expenses as may be necessary or
incidental to any related financing authorized by the City Commission by
subsequent resolution;
      (15)   An amount for contingencies and anticipated delinquencies and
uncollectible assessments; and
      (16)   Reimbursement to the city of any other person for any moneys
advanced for any costs incurred by the city or such person in connection with
any of the foregoing items of service cost.
   “FINAL LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.”  The resolution described
in §
38.25, which shall confirm, modify or repeal the initial local improvement
assessment resolution and which shall be the final proceeding for the
imposition of a local improvement assessment.
   “FINAL ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.” The resolution described in
§
38.25, which shall confirm, modify, or repeal the initial essential service
assessment resolution and shall be the final proceeding for the imposition of
an essential service assessment.
   “FISCAL YEAR.” The period commencing on October 1 of each year and
continuing through the next succeeding September 30, or such other period as
may be prescribed by law as the fiscal year for the city.
   “GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.” Property owned by the United States of America, the
State of Florida, a county, a special district, a municipal corporation, or any
of their respective agencies or political subdivisions.
   “INITIAL LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.” The resolution described
in §
38.21 hereof, which shall be the initial proceeding for the imposition of a
local improvement assessment.
   “LOCAL IMPROVEMENT.”  A capital improvement, or the program of plan for the
acquisition, construction or installation thereof by the city, for the special
benefit of a neighborhood or other local area.
   “LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT.” A special assessment imposed by the city
pursuant to §
38.20 hereof upon each parcel of property within the assessment area.
   “LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENT ROLL.” The special assessment roll relating to
local improvement assessments, approved by a final local improvement assessment
resolution or an annual local improvement assessment resolution pursuant to §
38.26.
   “OBLIGATIONS.” Bonds or other evidence of indebtedness including but not
limited to, notes, commercial paper, capital leases or any other obligation
issued or incurred to finance any portion of the project cost of local
improvements and secured, in whole or in part, by proceeds of the assessments.
   “OPERATING COST.” All or any portion of the expenses that are properly
attributable to essential services under generally accepted accounting
principles, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
reimbursement to the city for any funds advanced for essential services, and
interest on any interfund or intrafund loan for such purpose.
   “ORDINANCE.”  This local improvement and essential service assessment
chapter.
   “PLEDGED REVENUE.” As to any series of obligations:
      (1)   The proceeds of such obligations, including investment earnings;
      (2)   Proceeds of the assessments pledged to secure the payment of such
obligations; and
      (3)   Any other legally available non-ad valorem revenue pledged, at the
City Commission’s sole option, to secure the payment of such obligations, as
specified by the ordinance and resolution authorizing such obligations.
   “PROJECT COST.”
      (1)   The capital cost of a local improvement;
      (2)   The transaction cost associated with the obligations which financed
the local improvement;
      (3)   Interest accruing on such obligations for such period of time as
the city deems appropriate;
      (4)   The debt service reserve fund or account, if any, established for
the obligations which financed the local improvement; and
      (5)   Any other costs or expenses related thereto.
   “PROPERTY APPRAISER.” The Seminole County Property Appraiser.
   “RESOLUTION OF INTENT.” The resolution expressing the City Commission’s
intent to collect assessments on the ad valorem tax bill required by the
Uniform Assessment Collection Act.
   “TAX COLLECTOR.”  The Seminole County Tax Collector.
   “TAX ROLL.” The real property ad valorem tax assessment roll maintained by
the Property Appraiser for the purpose of the levy and collection of ad valorem
taxes.
   “TRANSACTION COST.” The costs, fees and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the issuance and sale of any series of obligations, including
but not limited to:
      (1)   Rating agency and other financing fees;
      (2)   The fees and disbursements of bond counsel;
      (3)   The underwriters’ discount;
      (4)   The fees and disbursements of the city’s financial advisor;
      (5)   The costs of preparing and printing the obligations, the
preliminary official statement, the final official statement, and all other
documentation supporting issuance of the obligations;
      (6)   The fees payable in respect of any municipal bond insurance policy;
      (7)   Administrative, development, credit review, and all other fees
associated with any pooled commercial paper or similar interim financing
program; and
      (8)   Any other costs of a similar nature incurred in connection with
issuance of such obligations.
   “UNIFORM ASSESSMENT COLLECTION ACT.”  F.S. §§ 197.3632 and 197.3635, or any
successor statutes authorizing the collection of non-ad valorem assessments on
the same bill as ad valorem taxes, and any applicable regulations promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.02 INTERPRETATION; TITLE AND CITATION.
   (A)   Unless the context indicates otherwise, words importing the singular
number include the plural number and vice versa; the terms “HEREOF,” “HEREBY,”
“HEREIN,” “HERETO,” “HEREUNDER,” and similar terms refer to this chapter; and
the term “HEREAFTER” means after, and the term “HERETOFORE” means before the
effective date of this chapter. Words of any gender include the correlative
words of the other gender, unless the sense indicates otherwise.
   (B)   This chapter, being necessary for the welfare of the inhabitants of
the city, particularly the owners of property located within the assessment
areas, shall be liberally construed to affect the purposes hereof.
   (C)   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Local Improvement and
Essential Service Assessment Ordinance.”
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.03 GENERAL FINDINGS.
   It is hereby ascertained, determined and declared that:
   (A)   Pursuant to Article VIII, § 2(b) of the Florida Constitution and F.S.
§§ 166.021 and 166.041, the City Commission has all powers of local self-
government to perform municipal functions and to render municipal services
except when prohibited by law and such power may be exercised by the enactment
of legislation in the form of city ordinances.
   (B)   The City Commission may exercise any government, corporate, or
proprietary power for a municipal purpose except when expressly prohibited by
law, and the City Commission may legislate on any subject matter on which the
Florida Legislature may act, except those subjects described in F.S. § 166.021
(3)(a), (b), (c), and (d). The subject matter of F.S. § 166.021(3)(a), (b),
(c), and (d) is not relevant to imposition of assessments related to local
improvements or essential services within the city.
   (C)   The assessments imposed pursuant to this chapter will be imposed by
the City Commission, not the Property Appraiser or Tax Collector. Any activity
of the Property Appraiser or Tax Collector under the provisions of this chapter
shall be construed solely as ministerial.
   (D)   The subject matter of this chapter concerns the city’s budget and
capital programs; accordingly, this chapter shall not be subject to
reconsideration pursuant to
Article XIV of the City Charter.
   (E)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Provide procedures and standards for the imposition of assessments
within the city by resolution under the general home rule powers of a
municipality to impose special assessments; and
      (2)   Authorize a procedure for the funding of public services,
facilities, programs, or local improvements providing special benefit to
subsequently identified property within the city.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
ASSESSMENT AREAS
§ 38.10 DEFINITION OF ASSESSMENT AREAS.
   The City Commission is hereby authorized to define assessment areas in
accordance with the procedures set forth herein to include property located
within the incorporated area of the city. Each assessment area shall encompass
only that property specially benefited by the local improvements or essential
services proposed for funding from the proceeds of assessments to be imposed
therein.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.11 LANDOWNER PETITION PROCESS.
   At its option, the City Commission may establish or ratify a process
pursuant to which the owners of property may petition or provide direction to
the Commission relative to the creation of an assessment area to fund local
improvements and essential services. Notwithstanding any such process
established or ratified pursuant to this chapter, the City Commission shall
retain the authority to create assessment areas without a landowner petition
non-binding ballot.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT AND ESSENTIAL SERVICE ASSESSMENTS
§ 38.20 AUTHORITY.
   The City Commission is hereby authorized to impose local improvement
assessments against property located within an assessment area to fund the
project cost of local improvements and operating costs of essential services.
The assessment shall be computed in a manner that fairly and reasonably
apportions the project and operating cost among the parcels of property within
the assessment area, based upon objectively determinable assessment units.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.21 INITIAL RESOLUTION.
   The initial proceeding for defining an assessment area and imposition of a
local improvement and essential service assessment shall be the City
Commission’s adoption of an initial local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution. The initial local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution shall:
   (A)   Describe the property to be located within the proposed assessment
area;
   (B)   Describe the local improvement and essential service proposed for
funding from proceeds of the local improvement and essential service
assessments;
   (C)   Estimate the capital cost, project cost and operating cost;
   (D)   Describe with particularity the proposed method of apportioning the
capital cost, project cost and operating cost among the parcels of property
located within the proposed assessment area, such that the owner of any parcel
of property can objectively determine the number of assessment units and the
amount of the assessment;
   (E)   Describe the provisions, if any, for acceleration and prepayment of
the assessment;
   (F)   Describe the provisions, if any, for reallocating the assessment upon
future subdivision; and
   (G)   Include specific legislative findings that recognize the fairness
provided by the apportionment methodology.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.22 ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall prepare a preliminary local improvement and
essential service assessment roll that contains the following information:
      (1)   A summary description of each parcel of property, conforming to the
description contained on the tax roll, subject to the local improvement and
essential service assessment;
      (2)   The name of the owner of record of each parcel, as shown on the tax
roll;
      (3)   The number of assessment units attributable to each parcel;
      (4)   The estimated maximum annual local improvement and essential
service assessment to become due in any fiscal year for each assessment unit;
and
      (5)   The estimated maximum annual local improvement and essential
service assessment to become due in any fiscal year for each parcel.
   (B)   Copies of the initial local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution and the preliminary local improvement essential service
assessment roll shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and open to
public inspection. The foregoing shall not be construed to require that the
local improvement and essential service assessment roll be in printed form if
the amount of the local improvement and essential service assessment for each
parcel of property can be determined by use of a computer terminal available to
the public.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.23 NOTICE BY PUBLICATION.
   After filing the local improvement and essential service assessment roll in
the office of the City Clerk, as required by §
38.22(B) hereof, the City Clerk shall publish once in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city, a notice stating that a public hearing of the City
Commission will be held on a certain day and hour, not earlier than 20 calendar
days from such publication, at which hearing the City Commission will receive
written comments and hear testimony from all interested persons regarding
definition of the assessment area and adoption of the final local improvement
and essential service assessment resolution. The published notice shall conform
to the requirements set forth in the Uniform Assessment Collection Act.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.24 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   In addition to the published notice required by §
38.23, the City Clerk shall provide notice of the proposed local improvement
and essential service assessment by first class mail to the owner of each
parcel of property subject to the assessment. The mailed notice shall conform
to the requirements set forth in the Uniform Assessment Collection Act. Notice
shall be mailed at least 20 calendar days prior to the hearing to each property
owner at such address as is shown on the tax roll. Notice shall be deemed
mailed upon delivery thereof to the possession of the U.S. Postal Service. The
City Clerk may provide proof of such notice by affidavit. Failure of the owner
to receive such notice due to mistake or inadvertence shall not affect the
validity of the local improvement and essential service assessment roll or
release or discharge any obligation for the payment of a local improvement and
essential service assessment imposed by the City Commission pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.25 ADOPTION OF FINAL RESOLUTION.
   (A)   At the time named in such notice, or such time to which an adjournment
or continuance may be taken, the City Commission shall receive written
objections and hear testimony of interested persons and may then, or at any
subsequent meeting of the City Commission, adopt the final local improvement
and essential service assessment resolution which shall:
      (1)   Define the assessment area;
      (2)   Confirm, modify or repeal the initial local improvement and
essential service assessment resolution with such amendments, if any, as may be
deemed appropriate by the City Commission;
      (3)   Establish the maximum amount of the local improvement and essential
service assessment for each assessment unit;
      (4)   Approve the local improvement and essential service assessment
roll, with such amendments as it deems just and right; and
      (5)   Determine the method of collection.
   (B)   Following adoption of the final local improvement and essential
service assessment resolution but prior to the date on which the local
improvement and essential service assessment roll is certified for collection
pursuant to §§
38.55 et seq., the City Commission may obtain a written legal opinion that the
local improvement and essential service assessments have been validly imposed
from the Office of the City Attorney, an attorney-at-law or firm of attorneys
of recognized standing in matters pertaining to local government law; provided
however, that the failure to obtain such opinion shall not invalidate the local
improvement and essential service assessments or affect the factual findings
made by the City Commission in connection therewith.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.26 ANNUAL RESOLUTION.
   During its budget adoption process, the City Commission shall adopt an
annual local improvement and essential service assessment resolution for each
fiscal year in which local improvement and essential service assessments will
be imposed to approve the local improvement and essential service assessment
roll for such fiscal year. The final local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution shall constitute the annual local improvement and
essential service assessment resolution for the initial fiscal year. The local
improvement and essential service assessment roll shall be prepared in
accordance with the initial local improvement and essential service assessment
resolution, as confirmed or amended by the final local improvement and
essential service assessment resolution. If the proposed local improvement and
essential service assessment for any parcel of property exceeds the maximum
amount established in the notice provided pursuant to §
38.24 hereof, or if a local improvement and essential service assessment is
imposed against property not previously subject thereto, the City Commission
shall provide notice to the owner of such property in accordance with §§
38.23 and
38.24 hereof and conduct a public hearing prior to adoption of the local
improvement and essential service assessment resolution. Failure to adopt an
annual local improvement assessment and essential service resolution during the
budget adoption process for a fiscal year may be cured at any time.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.27 EFFECT OF RESOLUTIONS.
   The adoption of the final local improvement and essential service assessment
resolution shall be the final adjudication of the issues presented (including,
but not limited to, the apportionment methodology, the rate of assessment, the
adoption of the local improvement and essential service assessment resolution
and the levy and lien of the local improvement assessments), unless proper
steps are initiated in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure relief
within 20 days from the date of City Commission adoption of the final local
improvement and essential service assessment resolution. The local improvement
and essential service assessment for each fiscal year shall be established upon
adoption of the annual local improvement and essential service assessment
resolution. The local improvement and essential service assessment roll, as
approved by the annual local improvement and essential service assessment
resolution, shall be certified to the Tax Collector, or such other official, as
the City Commission by resolution deems appropriate.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.28 LIENS OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Upon adoption of the annual local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution for each fiscal year, local improvement and essential
service assessments to be collected under the Uniform Assessment Collection Act
shall constitute a lien against assessed property equal in rank and dignity
with the liens of all state, county, district or municipal taxes and other non-
ad valorem assessments. Except as otherwise provided by law, such lien shall be
superior in dignity to all other liens, titles and claims, until paid. The lien
shall be deemed perfected upon adoption by the City Commission of the annual
local improvement and essential service assessment resolution and shall attach
to the property included on the local improvement and essential service
assessment roll as of the prior January 1, the lien date for ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Upon adoption of the final local improvement and essential service
assessment resolution, local improvement and essential service assessments to
be collected under any alternative method of collection provided in §
38.41 hereof shall constitute a lien against assessed property equal in rank
and dignity with the liens of all state, county, district or municipal taxes
and other non-ad valorem assessments. Except as otherwise provided by law, such
lien shall be superior in dignity to all other liens, titles and claims, until
paid. The lien shall be deemed perfected on the date notice thereof is recorded
in the official records of Seminole County, Florida.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.29 REVISIONS TO LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENTS.
   If any local improvement and essential service assessment made under the
provisions of this chapter is either in whole or in part annulled, vacated or
set aside by the judgment of any court, or if the City Commission is satisfied
that any such local improvement and essential service assessment is so
irregular or defective that the same cannot be enforced or collected, or if the
City Commission has failed to include any property on the local improvement and
essential service assessment roll, which property should have been so included,
the City Commission may take all necessary steps to impose a new local
improvement and essential service assessment against any property benefited by
the local improvement and essential service, following, as nearly as may be
practicable, the provisions of this chapter, and in case such second local
improvement and essential service assessment is annulled, the City Commission
may obtain and impose other local improvement and essential service assessments
until a valid local improvement and essential service assessment is imposed.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.30 PROCEDURAL IRREGULARITIES.
   Any irregularity in the proceedings in connection with the levy of any local
improvement and essential service assessment under the provisions of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of the same after the approval thereof,
and any local improvement and essential service assessment as finally approved
shall be competent and sufficient evidence that such local improvement and
essential service assessment was duly levied, that the local improvement and
essential service assessment was duly made and adopted, and that all other
proceedings adequate to such local improvement and essential service assessment
were duly had, taken and performed as required by this chapter; and no variance
from the directions hereunder shall be held material unless it be clearly shown
that the party objecting was materially injured thereby. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, any party objecting to a local improvement and
essential service assessment imposed pursuant to this chapter must file an
objection with a court of competent jurisdiction within the time periods
prescribed herein.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.31 CORRECTION OF ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   No act of error or omission on the part of the City Commission, City
Manager, Property Appraiser, Tax Collector, City Clerk, or their respective
deputies or employees, shall operate to release or discharge any obligation for
payment of any local improvement and essential service assessment imposed by
the City Commission under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The number of assessment units attributed to a parcel of property may
be corrected by any time by the City Manager. Any such correction which reduces
a local improvement and essential service assessment shall be considered valid
from the date on which the local improvement and essential service assessment
was imposed and shall in no way affect the enforcement of the local improvement
and essential service assessment imposed under the provisions of this chapter.
Any such correction which increases a local improvement and essential service
assessment or imposes a local improvement assessment on omitted property shall
first require notice to the affected owner in the manner described in §
38.24, providing the date, time and place that the City Commission will
consider confirming the correction and offering the owner an opportunity to be
heard.
   (C)   After the local improvement and essential service assessment roll has
been delivered to the Tax Collector in accordance with the Uniform Assessment
Collection Act, any changes, modifications or corrections thereto shall be made
in accordance with the procedures applicable to errors and insolvencies for ad
valorem taxes.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS
§ 38.40 METHOD OF COLLECTION.
   Unless directed otherwise by the City Commission, assessments (other than
assessments imposed against government property) shall be collected pursuant to
the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, and the city shall comply with all
applicable provisions thereof. The resolution of intent required by the Uniform
Assessment Collection Act may be adopted either prior to or following the
initial local improvement assessment resolution or initial essential service
assessment resolution; provided however, that the resolution of intent must be
adopted prior to January 1 (or March 1 with consent of the Property Appraiser
and Tax Collector) of the year in which the assessments are first collected on
the ad valorem tax bill. Any hearing or notice required by this chapter may be
combined with any other hearing or notice required by the Uniform Assessment
Collection Act.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.41 ALTERNATIVE METHOD OF COLLECTION.
   In lieu of using the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, the city may elect
to collect the assessment by any other method that is authorized by law or
provided by this section as follows:
   (A)   The city shall provide assessment bills by first class mail to the
owner of each affected parcel of property, other than government property. The
bill or accompanying explanatory material shall include:
      (1)   A brief explanation of the assessment;
      (2)   A description of the assessment units used to determine the amount
of the assessment;
      (3)   The number of assessment units attributable to the parcel;
      (4)   The total amount of the parcel’s assessment for the appropriate
period;
      (5)   The location at which payment will be accepted;
      (6)   The date on which the assessment is due; and
      (7)   A statement that the assessment constitutes a lien against assessed
property equal in rank and dignity with the liens of all state, county,
district or municipal taxes and other non-ad valorem assessments.
   (B)   A general notice of the lien resulting from imposition of the
assessments shall be recorded in the official records of Seminole County,
Florida. Nothing herein shall be construed to require that individual liens or
releases be filed in the official records.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to appoint or retain an agent to
foreclose and collect all delinquent assessments in the manner provided by law.
An assessment shall become delinquent if it is not paid within 30 days from the
due date. The city or its agent shall notify any property owner who is
delinquent in payment of an assessment within 60 days from the date such
assessment was due. Such notice shall state, in effect, that the city or its
agent will initiate a foreclosure action and cause the foreclosure of such
property subject to a delinquent assessment in a method now or hereafter
provided by law for foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, or otherwise as
provided by law.
   (D)   All costs, fees and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and
title search expenses, related to any foreclosure action as described herein
shall be included in any judgment or decree rendered therein. At the sale
pursuant to decree in any such action, the city may be the purchaser to the
same extent as an individual person or corporation. The city may join in one
foreclosure action the collection of assessments against any or all property
assessed in accordance with the provisions hereof. All delinquent property
owners whose property is foreclosed shall be liable for an apportioned amount
of reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the city and its agents, including
reasonable attorney fees, in collection of such delinquent assessments and any
other costs incurred by the city as a result of such delinquent assessments
including, but not limited to, costs paid for draws on a credit facility and
the same shall be collectible as a part of or in addition to, the costs of the
action.
   (E)   In lieu of foreclosure, any delinquent assessment and the costs, fees
and expenses attributable thereto, may be collected pursuant to the Uniform
Assessment Collection Act; provided however, that:
      (1)   Notice is provided to the owner in the manner required by law and
this chapter; and
      (2)   Any existing lien of record on the affected parcel for the
delinquent assessment is supplanted by the lien resulting from certification of
the local improvement assessment roll or the essential service assessment roll
to the Tax Collector.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.42 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The city and its agent, if any, shall maintain the duty to enforce the
prompt collection of assessments by the means provided herein. The duties
related to collection of assessments may be enforced at the suit of any holder
of obligations in a court of competent jurisdiction by mandamus or other
appropriate proceedings or actions.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.43 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   If assessments are imposed against government property, the city shall
provide assessment bills by first class mail to the owner of each affected
parcel of government property. The bill or accompanying explanatory material
shall include:
      (1)   A brief explanation of the assessment;
      (2)   A description of the assessment units used to determine the amount
of the assessment;
      (3)   The number of assessment units attributable to the parcel;
      (4)   The total amount of the parcel’s assessment for the appropriate
period;
      (5)   The location at which payment will be accepted; and
      (6)   The date on which the assessment is due.
   (B)   Assessments imposed against governmental property shall be due on the
same date as assessments against other property within the assessment area and,
if applicable, shall be subject to the same discounts for early payment.
   (C)   An assessment shall become delinquent if it is not paid within 30 days
from the due date. The city shall notify the owner of any government property
that is delinquent in payment of its assessment within 60 days from the date
such assessment was due. Such notice shall state in effect that the city will
initiate a mandamus or other appropriate judicial action to compel payment.
   (D)   All costs, fees and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and
title search expenses, related to any mandamus or other action as described
herein shall be included in any judgment or decree rendered therein. All
delinquent owners of government property against which a mandamus or other
appropriate action is filed shall be liable for an apportioned amount of
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the city, including reasonable
attorney fees, in collection of such delinquent assessments and any other costs
incurred by the city as a result of such delinquent assessments including, but
not limited to, costs paid for draws on a credit facility and the same shall be
collectible as a part of or in addition to, the costs of the action.
   (E)   As an alternative to the foregoing, an assessment imposed against
government property may be collected on the bill for any utility service
provided to such government property. The City Commission may contract for such
billing services with any utility provider.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
ISSUANCE OF OBLIGATIONS
§ 38.55 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Upon adoption of the final local improvement assessment resolution or
final essential service assessment resolution imposing assessments to fund,
respectively, a local improvement or an essential service, or at any time
thereafter, the City Commission shall have the power and is hereby authorized
to provide by resolution, at one time or from time to time in series, for the
issuance of obligations to fund the project cost or operating cost thereof.
   (B)   The principal of and interest on each series of obligations shall be
payable from pledged revenue. At the option of the City Commission, the city
may agree, by resolution, to budget and appropriate funds to make up any
deficiency in the reserve account established for the obligations or in the
payment of the obligations, from other non-ad valorem revenue sources. The City
Commission may also provide, by resolution, for a pledge of or lien upon
proceeds of such non-ad valorem revenue sources for the benefit of the holders
of the obligations. Any such resolution shall determine the nature and extent
of any pledge of or lien upon proceeds of such non-ad valorem revenue sources.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.56 TERMS OF THE OBLIGATIONS.
   The obligations shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates,
shall mature at such times as may be determined by resolution of the City
Commission, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the
city, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions, all as may
be fixed by the City Commission. Said obligations shall mature not later than
40 years after their issuance. The City Commission shall determine by
resolution the form of the obligations, the manner of executing such
obligations, and shall fix the denominations of such obligations, the place or
places of payment of the principal and interest, which may be at any bank or
trust company within or outside of the State of Florida, and such other terms
and provisions of the obligations as it deems appropriate. The obligations may
be sold at public or private sale for price or prices as the City Commission
shall determine by resolutions. The obligations may be delivered to any
contractor to pay for construction of the local improvements or may be sold in
such manner and for such price as the City Commission may determine by
resolution to be for the best interests of the city.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.57 VARIABLE RATE OBLIGATIONS.
   At the option of the City Commission, obligations may bear interest at a
variable rate.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.58 TEMPORARY OBLIGATIONS.
   Prior to the preparation of definitive obligations of any series, the City
Commission may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim
certificates, or temporary obligations, exchangeable for definitive obligations
when such obligations have been executed and are available for delivery. The
City Commission may also provide for the replacement of any obligations, which
shall become mutilated, destroyed or lost. Obligations may be issued without
any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than
those proceedings, conditions or things, which are specifically required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.59 ANTICIPATION NOTES.
   In anticipation of the sale of obligations, the City Commission may, by
resolution, issue notes and may renew the same from time to time. Such notes
may be paid from the proceeds of the obligations, the proceeds of the
assessments, the proceeds of the notes and such other legally available moneys
as the City Commission deems appropriate by resolution. Said notes shall mature
within five years of their issuance and shall bear interest at a rate not
exceeding the maximum rate provided by law. The City Commission may issue
obligations or renewal notes to repay the notes. The note shall be issued in
the same manner as the obligations.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.60 TAXING POWER NOT PLEDGED.
   Obligations issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed
to constitute a general obligation or pledge of the full faith and credit of
the city within the meaning of the Constitution of the State of Florida, but
such obligations shall be payable only from pledged revenue in the manner
provided herein and by the resolution authorizing the obligations. The issuance
of obligations under the provisions of this chapter shall not directly or
indirectly obligate the city to levy or to pledge any form of ad valorem
taxation whatever therefor. No holder of any such obligations shall ever have
the right to compel any exercise of the ad valorem taxing power on the part of
the city to pay any such obligations or the interest thereon or to enforce
payment of such obligations or the interest thereon against any property of the
city, nor shall such obligations constitute a charge, lien or encumbrance,
legal or equitable, upon any property of the city, except the pledged revenue.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.61 TRUST FUNDS.
   The pledged revenue received pursuant to the authority of this chapter shall
be deemed to be trust funds, to be held and applied solely as provided in this
chapter and in the resolution authorizing issuance of the obligations. The
city, or its designee, may invest such pledged revenue in the manner provided
by the resolution authorizing issuance of the obligations. The pledged revenue
upon receipt thereof by the city shall be subject to the lien and pledge of the
holders of any obligations or any entity other than the city providing credit
enhancement on the obligations.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.62 REMEDIES OF HOLDERS.
   Any holder of obligations, except to the extent the rights herein given may
be restricted by the resolution authorizing issuance of the obligations, may,
whether at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or other proceedings,
protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Florida
or granted hereunder or under such resolution, and may enforce and compel the
performance of all duties required by this part, or by such resolution, to be
performed by the city.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
§ 38.63 REFUNDING OBLIGATIONS.
   The city may, by resolution of the City Commission, issue obligations to
refund any obligations issued pursuant to this chapter, or any other
obligations of the city theretofore issued to finance the project cost of a
local improvement, or the operating cost of an essential service, and provide
for the rights of the holders hereof. Such refunding obligations may be issued
in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of the principal of
redemption premium, if any, and interest on the outstanding obligations to be
refunded. If the issuance of such refunding obligations results in an annual
assessment that exceeds the estimated maximum annual assessments set forth in
the notice provided pursuant to §
38.24, the City Commission shall provide notice to the affected property owners
and conduct a public hearing in the manner required by §§
38.20 et seq. or §§
38.40 et seq.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 38.75 ALTERNATIVE METHOD.
   (A)   This chapter shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative
method for the imposition and collection of assessments and shall be regarded
as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not
be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing or which may hereafter
come into existence.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall preclude the City Commission from directing and
authorizing, by resolution, the combination with each other of:
      (1)   Any supplemental or additional notice deemed proper, necessary, or
convenient by the city;
      (2)   Any notice required by this chapter; or
      (3)   Any notice required by law, including the Uniform Assessment
Collection Act.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-2-05)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   CITY WASTEWATER SYSTEM
      
51.   CITY WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   (RESERVED)
      
53.   CITY WASTEWATER AND WATER SYSTEM FEES AND CHARGES
      
54.   PROPER USE OF FERTILIZERS
      
55.   (RESERVED)
      
56.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: CITY WASTEWATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Notice of violations; liability
   
50.003   Remedies
Public Sewers
   
50.010   Unlawful deposits; discharges
   
50.011   Privies prohibited
   
50.012   Connection to public sewer required
   
50.013   Tampering with sewer equipment
   
50.014   Inspections
   
50.015   Appeals
   
50.016   Major contributing industries
   
50.017   Restricted discharges
Private Sewage Disposal
   
50.025   Private system permitted
   
50.026   Permit required
   
50.027   Compliance with regulations
   
50.028   Availability of public sewer
   
50.029   Sanitary maintenance
   
50.030   Additional requirements may be imposed
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.035   Permit required
   
50.036   Application
   
50.037   Installation costs
   
50.038   Separate sewers required; exception
   
50.039   Use of old sewers
   
50.040   Specifications
   
50.041   Elevation
   
50.042   Surface and drain water prohibited
   
50.043   Connections to conform to technical codes
   
50.044   Inspection
   
50.045   Excavations
   
50.046   Types of water prohibited
   
50.047   Discharge to storm drains
Industrial Users
   
50.055   Industrial pretreatment
Sewer System Extensions
   
50.095   Purpose
   
50.096   Construction of extension projects
   
50.097   Sewer service without water service
   
50.098   Design standards
   
50.099   Construction standards
Sewer Impact Fee
   
50.140   Short title
   
50.141   Findings of fact
   
50.142   Sewer impact fee
   
50.143   Determination of equivalent residential unit factors
   
50.144   Applicability of charge
   
50.145   When payment required
   
50.146   Wastewater system capital improvement funds
   
50.147   Responsibility for collection and transmission costs
   
50.148   Payment plan for connection of customers to city's sewer system
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater and water system fees and charges, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AVAILABLE." Shall be as defined in F.S. § 381.0065, as may be amended from
time to time.
   "B.O.D." (denoting biochemical oxygen demand). The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C., expressed in milligrams per liter
(mg/l) or parts per million (ppm).
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   "BULK USER." A customer such as a utility company or governmental entity
which conveys sewage in large quantities through either their own or city-
owned transmission mains from their service area to the city's service area.
   "CITY." The City of Lake Mary, Florida, a municipal corporation of the
state.
   "CITY OF LAKE MARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM." All facilities and interests in real
and personal property owned, operated, managed, or controlled by the city, now
and in the future, and used to provide sewer service to existing and future
customers within the service area of the city.
   "CITY RATE RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES." All resolutions and ordinances,
either currently in effect or to be adopted in the future, by the City
Commission or its successors, which establish and fix rates, fees, and charges
for the city sewerage system.
   "C.O.D." (denoting chemical oxygen demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the chemical oxidation of the chemically oxidizable carbonaceous contents
found within the wastewater sample, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) or
parts per million (ppm).
   "COLLECTION AND TRANSMISSION FACILITIES." The lines, pipes, meters, and
appurtenant equipment owned, operated, and maintained by the city to collect
sewage and to transmit it to Seminole County's transmission facilities.
   "COMBINED SEWER." A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   "COMMISSION." The City Commission.
   "COUNTY." Seminole County, a political subdivision of the state.
   "COUNTY RATE RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES." All sewer use ordinances,
resolutions, rules, and regulations relating to the use and discharge to the
Seminole County wastewater system as may be adopted by the county from time to
time.
   "DEPARTMENT." The Public Works Department.
   "EFFLUENT DISPOSAL CAPACITY." The rate of treated effluent flow, measured in
GPD or MGD, for which effluent disposal facilities are designed and are capable
of disposing, in accordance with all applicable government requirements.
   "EFFLUENT DISPOSAL FACILITIES." Those wastewater facilities necessary to
store and dispose of wastewater previously treated at treatment facilities.
   "ERU." An equivalent residential unit.
   "GARBAGE." Solid animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the domestic or
commercial preparation, cooking, storage, and dispensing of food, and from the
handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   "GPD." Gallons per day on an annual average basis.
   "GRAYWATER." Part of domestic sewage that is not blackwater, including waste
from the bath, lavatory, laundry, and sink, except kitchen sink waste.
   "HEARING BOARD." The City Commission.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   "MGD." Million gallons per day on an average annual basis.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or any
other body of surface or open water.
   "NORMAL SEWAGE." Sewage having the following limiting characteristics.
Sewage Maximum
Sewage                        Maximum
C.O.D.                        400 ppm
B.O.D. 5 day 20°C            250 ppm
Chlorine demand 15 min., 68°F6 ppm
Suspended solids              250 ppm
Grease                        100 ppm
Temperature                   150°F
Total nitrogen                25 ppm
Total phosphates              10 ppm
 
   "NPDES PERMIT." National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit,
issued by the federal government to the owner of a wastewater plant which
discharges to waters of the United States.
   "OBJECTIONABLE WASTE." Includes, but is not limited to waters or wastes
containing any of the following concentrations above the maximum quantities
shown.
Concentration Instantaneous Maximum PPM
Concentration          Instantaneous Maximum PPM
Arsenic                0.18
CBOD 5                 300
Cadmium                0.12
Chromium               4.66
Chlorides              695
Copper                 1.69
Cyanide                1.74
Lead                   0.91
Mercury                0.05
Molybdenum             0.35
Nickel                 1.41
Oil and Grease         100
pH                     >5.0, <9.5 s.u.
Selenium               0.35
Silver                 4.66
Total Dissolved Solids 500
Total Nitrogen         50
Total Phenols          13.2
Total Suspended Solids 300
Zinc                   3.97
 
   "ONSITE SEWAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM." A system that contains a
standard subsurface, filled, or mound drainfield system; an aerobic treatment
unit; a graywater system tank; a laundry wastewater system tank; a septic tank;
a grease interceptor; a pump tank; a solids or effluent pump; a waterless,
incinerating, or organic waste-composting toilet; or a sanitary pit privy that
is installed or proposed to be installed beyond the building sewer on land of
the owner or on other land to which the owner has the legal right to install a
system. The term includes any item placed within, or intended to be used as a
part of or in conjunction with, the system. This term does not include package
sewage treatment facilities and other treatment works.
   "pH." The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
moles per liter of solution.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." Wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2-inch in any dimension (1.27
centimeters).
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer which is controlled or owned by public authority.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters are not
admitted.
   "SEMINOLE COUNTY WASTEWATER SYSTEM." Those transmission facilities,
including the county treatment facilities in which sewage is received,
transmitted, treated, detained, and disposed of, and from which the city is
exclusively receiving and shall exclusively receive sewage treatment and
effluent disposal capacity on a wholesale basis, and which are operated and
maintained by the county.
   "SEWAGE" or "WASTEWATER." Water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, and other customers, but
does not mean or include hazardous or toxic wastes.
   "SEWAGE TREATMENT CAPACITY." The rate of sewage flow, measured in GPD, which
can be treated by treatment facilities in accordance with all applicable
governmental requirements.
   "SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT." Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   "SEWAGE WORKS." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   "SEWER." A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   "SEWER IMPACT FEES." (See "Wastewater Connection Fee.") Those fees and
charges established and collected by the city at or before the payment of a
local business tax, or the issuance of site or building permits, whichever
comes first, to pay for or recover the capital costs of sewerage facilities, as
set forth from time to time in the city's rate resolutions and ordinances. The
city's sewer impact fee includes the fee the county charges the city for each
connection to the county's system, which is passed through to the city
customers.
   "SEWER SERVICE CAPACITY." The volume of sewage flow, measured in GPD, which
can be collected, transmitted, treated, and disposed of.
   "SEWERAGE FACILITIES." All sewage collection, transmission, treatment, and
effluent disposal facilities, whether interim or permanent, including all
interceptors, lines, pipes, meters, couplings, pumps, force mains, and plant
and appurtenant equipment necessary to provide sewer or wastewater service.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period or duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation. The number of "SLUGS"
permitted over a given period of time will be determined by the Public Works
Department. If it is considered a result of negligence or harmful to the
system, the number permitted may be no more than one.
   "STORM DRAIN." Any pipe or natural or man-made drainage channel which
carries storm and surface waters and drainage, excluding sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   "STANDARD METHODS." "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, Water
Pollution Control Federation, and American Waterworks Association, latest
editions. All sampling and testing procedures required under provisions of this
chapter shall be in accordance with "Standard Methods".
   "TRANSMISSION FACILITIES." Those master lift stations, lines, pipes, force
mains, pumps, meters, and appurtenant equipment used by the county to transmit
wastewater from the point of connection from the city's collection and
transmission facilities to the headworks of the treatment facilities.
   "TREATMENT FACILITIES." Those sewage treatment facilities and rights used by
the county to treat wastewater in accordance with applicable governmental and
regulatory requirements.
   "WATERCOURSE." A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   "WASTEWATER CONNECTION FEE." (See "Sewer Impact Fees.")
   "WASTEWATER FACILITIES." All wastewater collection, transmission, treatment,
and effluent disposal facilities, including all interceptors, lines, pipes,
meters, couplings, pumps, force mains, and appurtenant equipment necessary to
provide sewer service capacity or wastewater service capacity.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT." The structure, process, equipment, and
management necessary to treat and discharge wastewater.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.002 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
50.013, shall be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of
the violation and provided a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction.
Any notice given shall be in writing and served in person or by registered or
certified mail. The notice shall be sent to the last known address of the
violator. Where the address is unknown, service may be made upon the owner of
record of the property involved at the address listed in the tax collector's
office for tax notices. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage incurred by the city
as a result of the violation, to include cost of any repairs necessitated by
said violation. Any charges not paid shall constitute a lien on the property
involved.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.003 REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the city from taking any
lawful action, including but not limited to resorting to equitable and
injunctive action as necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.010 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS; DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, septage, or other objectionable
waste. It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No future construction
of combined sewers shall be allowed by the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.011 PRIVIES PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.012 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of a properly functioning onsite sewage treatment and
disposal system, excluding an approved onsite graywater system, must connect
the system or the building's plumbing to an available publicly owned or
investor-owned sewerage system as provided in F.S. § 381.00655, as may be
amended from time to time. Requests for exemption shall be handled by the
Public Works Director as provided in the statutes.
   (B)   "AVAILABLE" shall mean as defined in F.S. § 381.0655, as may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy shall be granted by the Building Official
for any building until such time as owner has fully complied with the provision
of this section.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting any state or federal
agency from requiring a property owner to connect to the city's sewer system,
provided the Public Works Director determines the city's sewer system has the
needed capacity.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.013 TAMPERING WITH SEWER EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest and subject to the penalties
provided by state law and §
10.99.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.014 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Each person, by virtue of making application or request to the city
for any utility service or receiving or using any city utility service, thereby
grants or causes to be granted to the city, without additional cost or
consideration, all rights, easements, permits, licenses, and privileges that
are deemed necessary by the city for the establishment, rendering, maintenance,
termination, disconnection, or reconnection of utility services. Pursuant to
said authority, the appropriate Public Works Department official and other
duly-authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, at all reasonable or necessary times.
   (B)   The Public Works Department and other duly- authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly-negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly-
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.015 APPEALS.
   The City Commission shall sit as an appellate board for hearing appeals from
any decision by the Public Works Director and sewer users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the sections of this chapter by the Department,
and to hear appeals from any industrial sewer user as to the reasonableness of
charges imposed by the city for these users. Any appeals shall be in writing on
a form provided by the city, along with a fee as provided by resolution of the
City Commission.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.016 MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRIES.
   Any major contributing industry as defined by 40 C.F.R. 128.124 shall comply
with 40 C.F.R. 128 and any other regulation established by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or other appropriate regulating governmental
agency.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.017 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any of the city's
sewer facilities any substances, materials, waters, or wastes in the quantities
or concentrations which will do any of the following, or which have the
following properties:
   (1)   Create a fire or explosion hazard, including but not limited to
gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid,
solid, or gas.
   (2)   Cause corrosive damage or hazard to structures, equipment, or
personnel of the sewer facilities, but in no case discharges having a pH lower
than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 for any period of time. This requirement may be
modified for facilities designed to accommodate greater ranges.
   (3)   Cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with
the operation of sewer facilities due to accumulation of solid or viscous
materials.
   (4)   Constitute a rate of discharge or substantial deviation from normal
rates of discharge, (slug discharge), sufficient to cause interference in the
operation and performance of the sewer facilities.
   (5)   Contain heat in amounts which will accelerate the biodegradation of
wastes, causing the formation of excessive amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the
sewer or inhibit biological activity in the sewer treatment facilities.
However, in no case shall the discharge of heat cause the temperature in the
city sewer to exceed 58°C. (150°F.) or the temperature of the influent to the
treatment facilities to exceed 40°C. (104°F.) unless the facilities can
accommodate this heat.
   (6)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of nonbiodegradable oils of
mineral or petroleum origin.
   (7)   Contain floatable oils, fat, or grease.
   (8)   Contain noxious, malodorous gas or substances present in quantities
that create a public nuisance or a hazard to life.
   (9)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as defined by
applicable state and federal regulations.
   (10)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (11)   Contain any odor or color-producing substances exceeding
concentration limits which may be established by the Public Works Department
for purposes of meeting the city's sewer permit.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see § 10.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.025 PRIVATE SYSTEM PERMITTED.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.012, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before the commencement of construction or reconstruction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written permits from the
County Health Department and the City Building Official. The application for
these permits shall be made on a form furnished by the County Health Department
and City Building Official respectively; the applicant shall supplement said
application with any plans, specifications, and other information deemed
necessary by the County Health Department or the City Building Official.
   (B)   The Seminole County Health Department or the City Building Official
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify both when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.027 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of
Environmental Protection or other departments designated by state law. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities unless the installation complies in all
respects with the pertinent requirements of the county. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into any natural outlet.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.028 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public gravity sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
gravity sewer in compliance with this chapter and with the notice requirements
of F.S. § 381.00655, as may be amended from time to time. Any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned in
accordance with the Seminole County Health Department regulations.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.029 SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city. These facilities
shall be subject to inspection by the city and/or the Seminole County Health
Department at reasonable times.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.030 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS MAY BE IMPOSED.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city or other
applicable authority.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. There shall be two
classes of building sewer permits.
      (1)   Residential and commercial service.
      (2)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   The city shall not issue a permit for any class of connection to the
city sewer system unless there is sufficient capacity, not legally committed to
other users, in the sewer and treatment facilities to convey and adequately
treat the quantity of sewage which the requested connection will add to the
system. The city shall permit such a connection if there are legally binding
commitments to provide the needed capacity.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.036 APPLICATION.
   For a building sewer permit, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A connection, permit, and
inspection fee as periodically established by the city for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit or for an industrial building sewer permit
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.037 INSTALLATION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.038 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. The city assumes no obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single building sewer
which serves two buildings.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.039 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.040 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the city building and plumbing codes, or other applicable rules and regulations
of the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.041 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.042 SURFACE AND DRAIN WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.043 CONNECTIONS TO CONFORM TO TECHNICAL CODES.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the city building and plumbing codes, or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city. All connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and verified by proper testing. Gasketed fittings shall be required
and no connections shall be made by cement grouting. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.044 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer
before any underground portions are covered. The connection and testing shall
be made under the supervision of the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.045 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.046 TYPES OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any untreated
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, swimming pool water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer, or into the regional wastewater treatment
plant.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.047 DISCHARGE TO STORM DRAINS.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to storm
drains approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the Department, to a storm drain.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
INDUSTRIAL USERS
§ 50.055 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT.
   Nearly all wastewater generated in the city is conveyed to Seminole County
for proper treatment and disposal. The City of Lake Mary and Seminole County
have entered into an exclusive wholesale sewage treatment and disposal
agreement. All sewer users are subject to and shall follow the current Seminole
County Wastewater System User Rules, Seminole County Code Chapter 270, Part 8,
also known as the "Industrial Pretreatment Ordinance of Seminole County,
Florida" as may be amended from time to time. Any sewer users connected
directly to the City of Sanford's wastewater system shall follow the industrial
pretreatment standards of the City of Sanford.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
SEWER SYSTEM EXTENSIONS
§ 50.095 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes procedures to facilitate the orderly expansion
of the city's sewerage system and drainage systems and provides alternatives
for funding of the expansion by those benefiting thereby.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 50.096 CONSTRUCTION OF EXTENSION PROJECTS.
   A city sewerage or drainage system extension project may be constructed by
the city or by one or more property owners, in accordance with plans prepared
by or approved by the city. The city may construct an extension to its sewerage
or drainage system at the sole expense of one or more property owners or in
whole or in part at city expense.
   (A)   If the project is to be constructed at the sole expense of one or more
property owners benefiting from the project, the City Engineer shall prepare or
approve a plan describing the scope and purpose of the proposed extension and
the estimated cost thereof. Before any expenses are incurred or obligated by
the city, the property owners agreeing to bear the expense of the project shall
pay over to the city the total estimated cost of the project and shall agree in
writing to pay on demand any additional expenses actually incurred by the city
in constructing the extension. The funds paid to the city shall be deposited in
the water and sewer enterprise fund for the benefit of the special extension
project, from which all expenses of the project shall be paid without further
appropriation. After completion of the project, any remaining funds in excess
of those required to be expended for construction thereof may be refunded to
the contributing property owners in proportion to their contribution to the
project.
   (B)   If the city determines that a sewerage or drainage system extension
project is to be constructed by the city in whole or in part at city expense,
the City Engineer shall submit to the City Commission for approval by
resolution a description of the scope and purpose of the proposed extensions,
the estimated cost thereof, and an analysis of project feasibility, including
the basis upon which construction with city funds is recommended. Upon approval
by the City Commission, the City Engineer shall proceed with the project only
after the funds, if any, to be contributed by one or more property owners
benefiting from the project have been paid to the city. Contributions by
property owners shall be subject to the provisions of division (A) above.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 50.097 SEWER SERVICE WITHOUT WATER SERVICE.
   A sewerage system extension project to extend sewer service to any area not
served, and not to be concurrently served, by the city's water system, may be
initiated only after approval by the City Commission.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 50.098 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All plans and specifications relating to sewerage or drainage system
extension projects shall comply with established city standards set forth in
the Department of Public Works's policies, and shall have affixed to them the
seal of a registered professional engineer. With respect to projects not
designed and constructed by the city, the property owner authorized to
undertake the project shall file with the city a reproducible set of plans
(hard copy and .TIF file) showing the completed work, as built. The City
Engineer or his or her designated representative shall make periodic
inspections and a final inspection certifying that the work as constructed
complies with established city standards, and shall submit a final project
approval report to the city.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.099 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All extensions of the city's sewerage or drainage systems shall comply with
the following standards.
   (A)   All sanitary sewers, sewerage pumping stations, and related
appurtenances or drainage structures installed or constructed under this
chapter are to be conveyed to the city and shall be located only in a public
right-of-way, on city- owned property, or in easements acceptable to the city.
Where the property is under development, sewerage, or drainage system
extensions shall not be installed until the finished grades of the rights-of-
way or easements have been established and approved by the City Engineer, and
the rights-of- way or easements have been constructed to at least design
subgrade.
   (B)   All installations shall be made in a manner and of those materials
that are in accordance with standards and requirements established by the city,
and all plans, specifications, promises, or construction sites shall be subject
to inspection and approval by the City Engineer or his or her designee at any
time during or after completion of construction prior to acceptance by the
city.
   (C)   Every building sewer shall terminate at the owner's property line and
shall be installed and connected to the building plumbing by the property owner
at his or her expense.
   (D)   Actual interconnection of an extension with the existing city sewerage
system shall be prevented by omitting a connecting section or by placing a
temporary bulkhead in the connecting lines until the extension project has been
fully inspected and approved and all other conditions for extension of service
have been met.
   (E)   All portions of a sewerage system extension project located in a
public right-of-way, city-owned property, or a public easement, shall upon
installation, become the property of the city, and the filing of an application
for approval of construction of a project by a property owner shall be deemed
to be consent to the transfer of ownership. The property owner shall execute
and deliver to the city deeds or other evidences of ownership that the city may
require.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
SEWER IMPACT FEE
§ 50.140 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Lake Mary
Sewer Impact Fee Regulations".
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.141 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   In adopting a sewer impact fee and adopting regulations related thereto, the
City Commission hereby makes and expresses the following findings, purposes,
and intent:
   (A)   It is the policy of the City Commission to assist in the control of
growth within the city.
   (B)   As a part of a total planning effort, the city adopted a wastewater
master plan.
   (C)   The main objectives of the wastewater master plan are to define and
meet the wastewater needs and develop a systematic approach to providing
centralized wastewater services to the entire city.
   (D)   The findings, conclusions, and results of the wastewater master plan
are hereby incorporated into these findings and this subchapter.
   (E)   As growth and its attendant population increase continues in the city,
the need for additional central sewerage services increases.
   (F)   In order to accommodate the need for additional central sewerage
service within the city, the city must acquire additional sewerage treatment
and effluent disposal capacity to meet these needs.
   (G)   Previously, the city has selected one of the four ownership options
referred to in its wastewater master plan by entering into the Seminole County/
City of Lake Mary, Florida Exclusive Wholesale Sewage Treatment and Disposal
Agreement executed on July 28, l987.
   (H)   This agreement allows the city to purchase sewage treatment and
effluent disposal capacity on a wholesale basis from Seminole County in order
to ultimately provide wastewater service capacity to developers and any other
future city customers.
   (I)   This agreement requires the city to pay certain impact fees to
Seminole County in order to purchase sewage treatment and effluent disposal
capacity, based upon the then prevailing wastewater connection fee rate charged
by Seminole County for capital facilities necessary to provide sewage treatment
and effluent disposal capacity.
   (J)   In addition to this capacity, the city must provide major sewage
transmission facilities in order to collect and transmit raw sewage and
transmit that sewage to the Seminole County wastewater system in order to
utilize said purchased sewage treatment and effluent disposal capacity.
   (K)   The city authorized its wastewater engineers to prepare a report to
establish a just, fair, and equitable impact fee, which report is hereby
adopted and incorporated into this subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
   (L)   Pursuant to Article VIII, Section II(b), Florida Constitution; F.S. §
166.021; F.S. Chapter 180; and other provisions of state law, the City
Commission is authorized to provide, regulate, purchase, construct, improve,
extend, enlarge, and reconstruct a sewerage system, and if further authorized,
to fix and collect rates, fees, and other charges for the service and
facilities furnished by its sewerage system.
   (M)   It is the policy and object of the City Commission to ensure that
rates, charges, and fees levied to pay for the cost of the sewerage system
acquisitions, additions, and expansions are just and reasonable and cover the
true costs of said acquisitions, additions, and expansions.
   (N)   It is just and reasonable that the cost of the new sewerage system
facility should be borne by the new users only to the extent that new use
requires new facilities so that new users shall pay their fair share based on
the additional burden their use places on the city's sewerage system.
   (O)   The City Commission has scheduled and held a public hearing to allow
public comment on the adoption of the sewer impact fees.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.142 SEWER IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts and establishes a sewer impact fee equal to the
product of the sum of: (1) the amount actually charged to the city by Seminole
County for providing sewage treatment and effluent disposal capacity per gallon
of wastewater (a.k.a. the wastewater connection fee), and (2) a city charge of
$1.45 per gallon of wastewater as established by City Commission; multiplied by
the volume of sewage estimated by the city to be generated by a given customer
or project as defined in §
50.143. All fees and charges paid pursuant to this section shall be
nonrefundable.
   (B)   No city permits shall be issued prior to the receipt of the sewer
impact fee.
   (C)   Sewer service shall be allocated on a first come first serve basis
based on the order of receipt of application. Sewer service capacity is non-
transferable to other properties.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14; Am. Ord. 1537, passed 2-18-16)
§ 50.143 DETERMINATION OF EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT FACTORS.
   (A)   For purposes of calculating and imposing the sewer impact fee provided
for in §
50.142, the ERU factor (and corresponding volume of sewage measured in GPD) for
any particular connection shall be calculated and imposed in the manner
provided as follows:
 Establishment Unit Factor Volume
    Establishment                                                            Unit    Factor Volume
(1) Residential:                                                                           
      Single-family home (detached or attached)                          Per     1.000  300
                                                                             unit
      Multi-family (building containing three or more D.U.'s) (1 or 2    Per     0.833  250
    bedrooms)                                                                unit
      Multi-family (building containing three or more D.U.'s) (3 or more Per     1.000  300
    bedrooms)                                                                unit
      Mobile home (1 or 2 bedrooms)                                      Per     0.833  250
                                                                             unit
      Mobile home (3 or more bedrooms)                                   Per     1.000  300
                                                                             unit
(2) Commercial:                                                                            
      Barber/beauty shop                                                 Per     0.333  100
                                                                             chair
      Bowling alley                                                      Per     0.333  100
                                                                             lane
(3) Food service w/seating:                                                                
      Restaurant/cafeteria                                               Per     0.100  30
                                                                             seat
      Restaurant (24 hours)                                              Per     0.167  50
                                                                             seat
      Restaurant ("fast food")                                           Per     0.083  25
                                                                             seat
      Bar/cocktail lounge                                                Per     0.100  30
                                                                             seat
(4) Hotel, motel (not including food service, banquet and meeting rooms, and Per bed 0.333  100
    laundries)
(5) Laundry/self-service                                                     Per     1.333  400
                                                                             machine
(6) Motel (see Hotel)                                                                      
    Office building/shopping center/ convenience stores - not including food 1,000
(7) service w/seating                                                        sq. ft. 0.33   (100)
                                                                             gross
(8) Auto repair:                                                             Per bay 1.000  300
                                                                             Per
                                                                           wash    3.200  960
                                                                             bay
                                                                             Per
                                                                           toilet  1.000  300
                                                                             room
(9) Theater                                                                  Per     0.016  5
                                                                             seat
(10 Dentist's office:                                                        Per     0.833  250
)                                                                            dentist
                                                                           Per wet 0.333  100
                                                                             chair
(11 Doctor's office                                                          Per     0.833  250
)                                                                            doctor
(12 Hospital                                                                 Per bed 0.167  50
)
(13 Schools, day type                                                        Per     0.050  15
)                                                                            student
(14 Schools, boarding                                                        Per     0.25   75
)                                                                            student
(15                                                                          1,000
)   Warehouse                                                                sq. ft. 0.14   42
                                                                             gross
(16                                                                          1,000
)   Self service storage                                                     sq. ft. 0.067  20
                                                                             gross
(17 Place of worship/assembly (excludes schools)                             Per     0.01   1
)                                                                            seat
(18 Nursing home, adult assisted living                                      Per bed 0.286  85
)
 
   (B)   One ERU shall, for the purposes of this section, have an assigned
value of 1.00. One ERU is hereby established and determined to be equal to a
flow of 300 gallons per day (300 GPD), average annual basis. The "Total
Equivalent Residential Unit Value" for an establishment shall be calculated by
multiplying the ERU factor listed in division (A) above times the number of
units.
   (C)   For all establishments not listed above, the total ERU value shall be
determined by multiplying the number of fixture units, as published in the
Florida Plumbing/Building Code, by 25, and then dividing that numerator by 300
GPD/ERU. For example:
Total = Number of fixture units x 25
ERU value    300
In no event shall the total ERU value used to calculate a sewer impact fee,
when using this method, be less than 1.00, nor less than the volume determined
to be required by Seminole County.
   (D)   If the Public Works Director determines that the actual sewage usage
will be greater than the ERU usage assigned to such category as set forth
above, then the Director may determine, based on actual usage, anticipated
usage, peak load requirements, or any combination of the foregoing using
accepted engineering standards, a different or greater total ERU value. Notice
of any such determination shall be sent to the City Commission.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.144 APPLICABILITY OF CHARGE.
   The sewer impact fee set forth in § 50.142 shall be paid by all those
customers who connect to the city sewerage system. The charge will be adjusted
periodically to reflect changes made by Seminole County to the charge for
providing wastewater service capacity to the city. When fees are incurred due
to a recalculation based on a change in use of a particular property, the city
may provide partial credit to applicants who prove that sewer impact fees were
previously collected by the city on that property.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.145 WHEN PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   All sewer impact fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of a site
construction permit, building permit or payment of the local business tax,
whichever comes first, for a site/parcel to be served by the city sewerage
system; or at such other time as may be specifically provided by city or county
resolution, ordinance, or agreement.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.146 WASTEWATER SYSTEM CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   The sewer impact fee collected pursuant to this subchapter and
retained by the city shall be used only for the construction and acquisition of
additions and extensions to the city wastewater system and all components
thereof, including collection and transmission facilities, transmission
facilities, treatment facilities, and effluent disposal facilities, in order to
provide additional sewage treatment capacity, effluent disposal capacity, or
wastewater service capacity to those new customers who connect to the city
wastewater system.
   (B)   The city may by resolution provide for the application of some or all
of the city's portion of the sewer impact fee to the payment or security for
the payment of revenue bonds issued in whole or in part for the purpose set out
in division (A) above, provided the amount of sewer capital charges applied to
the payment of such bonds shall not exceed the amount of bond proceeds actually
expended for such purpose with interest at the average rate borne by said
bonds. Such application or pledge may be made directly in the proceedings
authorizing such bonds or in an agreement with an insurer of bonds to assure
such insurer of additional security therefor.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.147 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTION AND TRANSMISSION COSTS.
   (A)   In addition to the sewer impact fee, the developer or customer shall
provide the required capital improvements for:
      (1)   The collection of raw sewage within the boundaries of the property
owned by the developer or customer to which the city intends to provide
wastewater service capacity; and
      (2)   The transmission of sewage from those boundaries to the city's
collection and transmission facilities prior to connection to treatment
facilities.
   (B)   The city shall allow the developer or customer to connect to the
nearest feasible point as determined by the city.
(Ord. 354, passed 12-17-87; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 50.148 PAYMENT PLAN FOR CONNECTION OF CUSTOMERS TO CITY'S SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following options for payment of all impact fees incident to
connection to the city sewer system shall be offered to owners of property at
such time as said properties are provided notice of sewer availability:
      (1)   Option one: Full payment within 90 days of receipt of notice of
sewer availability or actual connection to the system, whichever date is
earlier, with no interest charged.
      (2)   Option two: Payment in 12 or 24 equal monthly installments at 4%
interest per annum with the first installment due 90 days after receipt of
notice of sewer availability or actual connection to the system, whichever date
is earlier.
      (3)   Option three: Payment in three equal annual installments at 7%
interest per annum on the unpaid balance with the first installment due 90 days
after receipt of notice of sewer availability or actual connection to the
system, whichever date is earlier. The second installment would be due 12
months after the date that the first installment became due and payable and
would include the payment of interest accrued to the actual date of payment of
the second installment. The third and final installment would be due 24 months
after the first installment became due and payable and would include the
payment of interest accrued to the actual date of the payment.
      (4)   If any payment under options two or three is not made within 30
days after the date same is due and payable, the entire balance shall become
due and payable without notice. In addition, the city reserves the right to
exercise such other authority as it has to enforce payment, including but not
limited to the discontinuance of water service, until the full balance then due
and owing is paid.
      (5)   The interest rates set forth in options two and three may from time
to time be modified by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized to terminate all city utility service to
any establishment which fails to pay the connection charges as herein provided
until such time as said charges have been paid in full.
   (C)   Security for payment:
      (1)   In the event that an affected property owner shall elect to pay the
required connection fee as provided for by division (A) hereof, the owner shall
provide the city with evidence of actual title to the affected property and all
persons having an ownership interest therein shall be required to join in the
application for service. The city shall place a lien on the affected property
in favor of the city as security for payment of the said charges.
      (2)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to prepare
such forms and agreements as are necessary to carry out the intent of this
section.
   (D)   In the event an owner fails or refuses to timely connect to the city's
sewer system, the city may employ any legally available remedy, including but
not limited to, injunctive relief, and use of the code enforcement process. In
the event the city is required to resort to legal action, all costs incurred,
including attorney's fees and court costs, shall be assessed to the owner. The
City Manager is authorized to initiate such proceedings as are permitted by law
to enforce any rights that the city may have to recover the impact and
connection fees for sewer connection, including but not limited to the
foreclosure of any lien herein provided for.
(Ord. 656, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
CHAPTER 51: CITY WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Connection with system
   
51.02   Mandatory connection and payment plan
   
51.03   Unlawful connections
   
51.04   Connecting old plumbing
   
51.05   Installation and maintenance
   
51.06   Free service prohibited
   
51.07   Separate meters
Water Conservation for Landscape Irrigation
   
51.20   Intent; purpose
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Landscape irrigation schedule
   
51.23   Exceptions to landscape irrigation schedule
   
51.24   Additional requirement
   
51.25   Variance from specific day of the week limitations
   
51.26   Application
   
51.27   Enforcement officials
   
51.28   Enforcement penalty
Water System Impact Fee
   
51.51   Short title
   
51.52   Finding of fact
   
51.53   Definitions
   
51.54   Water permit; application
   
51.55   Capital improvements funds; application and pledge to revenue bonds or
notes
   
51.56   Distribution system
   
51.57 - 51.64   (Reserved)
   
51.65   Adoption
   
51.66   Determination of equivalent residential unit factors
   
51.67   Applicability
   
51.68   Time of payment
Cross-reference:
   Wastewater and Water System Fees and Charges, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONNECTION WITH SYSTEM.
   Where the city water system is available, as defined by §
51.02, the owner of every lot or parcel of land within the city shall connect,
or have the plumbing of any building or buildings thereon connected, with the
municipal water system of the city, and use the facilities of the water system.
This section shall not be construed to entitle any person to cross the private
property of another to make any water connections.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 51.02 MANDATORY CONNECTION AND PAYMENT PLAN.
   Because of the increasing population and the possibility of increasing
contamination of the ground and surface waters, and other related matters, the
City Commission deems that it is to the best interest of the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public to encourage the extension of public water
and to require connection to the city- owned extensions to water systems
whenever either system is extended to within 100 feet of the property line of
any property to be served. However, if a property owner currently has a private
well furnishing water for consumption by human beings and an extension of the
system is within 100 feet of the property, then they shall be required to tie
on to the system for the supply of water for human consumption but may maintain
the private water supply for outdoor watering or agricultural purposes. Where
the property line of any property lies within 100 feet of a city-owned water
system, then the property owner is prohibited from constructing any wells where
the use of water from the wells is meant for human consumption. Where the
property lies within 100 feet of a privately-owned or city-owned water system,
no permits will be issued for the construction of water wells; however, wells
for outdoor watering or agricultural purposes will be permitted.
   (A)   The following options for payment of all impact fees incident to
connection to the city water system shall be offered to owners of existing
developed property at such time as said properties are hereinafter required to
connect to the city's water system. NOTE: These options are not available to
new development where water is already available.
      (1)   Option one: Full payment within 90 days of receipt of notice to
connect or actual connection to the system, whichever date is earlier.
      (2)   Option two: Payment in 12 or 24 equal monthly installments at 4%
interest per annum with the first installment due 90 days after receipt of
notice to connect or actual connection to the system, whichever date is
earlier.
      (3)   Option three: Payment in three equal annual installments at 7%
interest per annum on the unpaid balance with the first installment due 90 days
after receipt of notice to connect or actual connection to the system,
whichever date is earlier. The second installment would be due 12 months after
the date that the first installment became due and payable and would include
the payment of interest accrued to the actual date of payment of the second
installment. The third and final installment would be due 24 months after the
first installment became due and payable and would include the payment of
interest accrued to the actual date of the payment.
      (4)   If any payment under options two or three is not made within 30
days after the date same is due and payable, the entire balance shall become
due and payable without notice. In addition, the city reserves the right to
exercise such other authority as it has to enforce payment, including but not
limited to the discontinuance of water service until the full balance then due
and owing was paid.
      (5)   The interest rates set forth in options two and three may from time
to time be modified by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized to terminate all city utility service to
any establishment which fails to pay the connection charges as herein provided
until such time as said charges have been paid in full.
   (C)   Security for payment:
      (1)   In the event that an affected property owner shall elect to pay the
required connection fee as provided for by division (A) hereof, the owner shall
provide the city with evidence of actual title to the affected property and all
persons having an ownership interest therein shall be required to join in the
application for service for the purpose of imposing a lien on the affected
property in favor of the city as security for payment of the said charges. To
the extent that any property shall be determined to be the homestead of the
owners, then and in that event the owners shall be required to comply with Art.
X, § 4, Fla. Const, for the purposes of imposing a lien on the affected
property in favor of the city as security for payment of the said charges.
      (2)   The Finance Director is hereby authorized and directed to prepare
such forms and agreements as are necessary to carry out the intent of this
section.
   (D)   Enforcement. In addition to any other enforcement methods, but not in
lieu of, the City Manager is authorized to initiate such proceedings as are
permitted by law to enforce any rights that the city may have by law, by
ordinance or hereunder, to enforce connection to the city's water system and
the payment of impact and connection fees therefor, including but not limited
to the foreclosure of any lien herein provided for. The city may seek
injunctive relief, or use the city's code enforcement process. In the event the
city is required to resort to legal action, all costs incurred, including
attorneys' fees and court costs, shall be assessed to the owner.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall be allowed to connect or reconnect into the water system
without the written consent of the Public Works Department, and without first
having paid all connection, turn- on, and deposit fees. Connection or
reconnection with the system shall only be made under the direction and
supervision of the Public Works Department. Any property owner, or any occupant
of the property, or any plumber who makes any connection, reconnection, or any
of the foregoing who allows any other person to make any connection or
reconnection, without the consent of the Public Works Department and without
first having paid all connection, reconnection, and deposit fees, shall have
violated the provisions of this chapter and shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 CONNECTING OLD PLUMBING.
   Whenever it is desirable to connect existing plumbing with the city water
system, the owner or plumber doing the work shall notify the City Building
Inspector who will inspect the plumbing and notify the owner or plumber what
alterations will be necessary to place the plumbing in an acceptable condition
for connection with the water system. An owner or plumber shall make the
connections in conformity with the Florida Building Code - Plumbing, as amended
from time to time, as adopted by reference under §
150.03.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the installation and
maintenance of the plumbing on their own property which must be in conformity
with the standards of the Florida Building Code - Plumbing, as amended from
time to time. The city's responsibility for maintenance and installation
terminates at the owner's property line.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 51.06 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No water shall be furnished free of charge to any person, firm, or
corporation whatsoever. The city and every agency, department, or
instrumentality which uses the water system shall pay the rates fixed by §
53.20.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 51.07 SEPARATE METERS.
   Each building site shall be considered a separate unit for the payment of
the water fees established in §
53.20, and separate connections will be required for each of the units. Every
connection shall be separately metered.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
WATER CONSERVATION FOR LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
§ 51.20 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to implement procedures that
promote water conservation through the more efficient use of landscape
irrigation.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
   “ADDRESS.” The house number of a physical location of a specific property.
This includes “rural route” numbers but excludes post office box numbers. If a
lot number in a mobile home park or similar community is used by the U.S.
Postal Service to determine a delivery location, the lot number shall be the
property’s address. An “even numbered address” means an address ending in the
numbers 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or the letters A through M. An “odd numbered address”
means an address ending in the numbers 1, 3, 5, 7, 8 or the letters N through
Z.
   “DISTRICT.” The St. Johns River Water Management District.
   “EASTERN TIME.” When the clocks are moved back in the fall of each year.
   “LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION.”
      (1)   The outside watering of plants in a landscape such as shrubbery,
trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens and other such flora
that are situated in such diverse locations as residential areas, public,
commercial, and industrial establishments, and public medians and rights-of-
way.
      (2)   “LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION” does not include agricultural crops, nursery
plants, cemeteries, golf course greens, tees, fairways, primary roughs, and
vegetation associated with intensive recreational areas such as, but not
limited to, playgrounds, and football, baseball and soccer fields.
   “NON-RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION.” The irrigation of landscape not
included within the definition of “RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION”, such as
that associated with public, commercial and industrial property, including
commercial or transient housing units, hotels and motel units, and public
medians and rights-of-way.
   “PERSON.” Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind.
   “RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION.” The irrigation of landscape associated
with any housing unit having sanitary and kitchen facilities designed to
accommodate one or more residents, including multiple housing units and mobile
homes.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.22 LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   When Daylight Savings Time is in effect, landscape irrigation shall
occur only in accordance with the following irrigation schedule:
      (1)   Residential landscape irrigation at odd numbered addresses must
only occur on Wednesday and Saturday and must not occur between 10:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m.
      (2)   Residential landscape irrigation at even numbered addresses must
only occur on Thursday and Sunday and must not occur between 10:00 a.m. and 4:
00 p.m.
      (3)   Non-residential landscape irrigation may occur only on Tuesday and
Friday and shall not occur between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
      (4)   No more than 3/4-inch of water may be applied per irrigation zone
on each day that irrigation occurs, and in no event shall irrigation occur for
more than one hour per irrigation zone on each day that irrigation occurs.
   (B)   When Eastern Standard Time is in effect, landscape irrigation shall
occur only in accordance with the following irrigation schedule:
      (1)   Residential landscape irrigation at odd numbered addresses may
occur only on Saturday and shall not occur between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Residential landscape irrigation at even numbered addresses may
occur only on Sunday and shall not occur between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Non-residential landscape irrigation may occur only on Tuesday and
shall not occur between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.; and
      (4)   No more than 3/4-inch of water may be applied per irrigation zone
on each day that irrigation occurs, and in no event shall irrigation occur for
more than one hour per irrigation zone on each day that irrigation occurs.
   (C)   All landscape irrigation shall be limited in amount to only that
necessary to meet landscape needs.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 EXCEPTIONS TO LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION SCHEDULE.
   Landscape irrigation shall be subject to the following irrigation schedule
exceptions:
   (A)   Irrigation using a micro-spray, micro-jet, drip or bubbler irrigation
system is allowed anytime.
   (B)   Irrigation of new landscape is allowed at any time of day on any day
for the initial 30 days and every other day for the next 30 days for a total of
one 60-day period, provided that the irrigation is limited to the minimum
amount necessary for such landscape establishment.
   (C)   Watering in of chemicals, including insecticides, pesticides,
fertilizers, fungicides, and herbicides, when required by law, the
manufacturer, or best management practices is allowed any time of day on any
day within 24 hours of application. Watering in of chemicals shall not exceed
1/4-inch of water per application except as otherwise required by law, the
manufacturer, or best management practices.
   (D)   Irrigation systems may be operated any time of day on any day for
maintenance and repair purposes not to exceed 20 minutes per hour per zone.
   (E)   Irrigation using a hand-held hose equipped with an automatic shut-off
nozzle is allowed any time of day on any day.
   (F)   Discharge of water from a water- to-air air conditioning unit or other
water-dependent cooling system is not limited.
   (G)   The use of water from a reclaimed water system is allowed anytime. For
the purpose of this division (G), a “RECLAIMED WATER SYSTEM” includes systems
in which the primary source is reclaimed water, which may or may not be
supplemented from another source during peak demand periods.
   (H)   The use of recycled water from wet detention treatment ponds for
irrigation is allowed anytime provided the ponds are not augmented from any
ground or off-site surface water, or public supply sources.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.24 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.
   Any person who irrigates landscape with an automatic lawn sprinkler system
installed after May 1, 1991, shall install, maintain and operate a rain sensor
device or switch that overrides the irrigation system when adequate rainfall
has occurred.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.25 VARIANCE FROM SPECIFIC DAY OF THE WEEK LIMITATIONS.
   A variance from the specific landscape irrigation days or day set forth in §
51.22 may be granted by the Public Works Director if strict application of the
scheduled days or day would lead to unreasonable or unfair results in
particular circumstances, provided that the applicant demonstrates with
particularity that compliance with the scheduled days or day will result in a
substantial economic, health or other hardship on the applicant requesting the
variance or those served by the applicant. Where a contiguous property is
divided into different zones, a variance may be granted hereunder so that each
zone may be irrigated on different days or day than other zones of the
property. However, in no event shall a variance allow a single zone to be
irrigated more than two days per week during Daylight Savings Time or more than
one day per week during Eastern Standard Time.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.26 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to each person located within
the City of Lake Mary.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.27 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   Law enforcement officials and Code Enforcement Officers having jurisdiction
in the City of Lake Mary are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. In addition, the City Manager may also designate additional
enforcement responsibility for this subchapter to other departments of the City
of Lake Mary.
(Ord. 1319, passed 5-7-09; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 ENFORCEMENT PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of §§
51.20 through
51.27 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   First violation: written warning.
      (2)   Second violation: $50.
      (3)   Subsequent violation(s): Fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   Each day a violator is in violation of §§
51.20 through
51.27 shall constitute a separate offense. Enforcement officials shall provide
violators with no more than one written warning. In addition to the civil
sanctions contained herein, the City of Lake Mary may take any other
appropriate legal action, including, but not limited to, injunctive action to
enforce the provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.27.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
WATER SYSTEM IMPACT FEE
§ 51.51 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Lake Mary Water
System Impact Regulation.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.52 FINDING OF FACT.
   In adopting a water impact fee and adopting rules related thereto, the City
Commission hereby makes and expresses the following findings, purposes, and
intent:
   (A)   State and federal environmental protection agencies are continuing to
apply stringent water quality standards to the city's water system.
   (B)   Continued growth within the city will significantly impact the water
system requiring an expansion of the system in the near future.
   (C)   Recent and proposed changes in applicable federal legislation and
federal and state regulations related to the Municipal Water Treatment
Construction Grants Program contained in the Clean Water Act, as amended,
indicate that the city cannot rely on the future availability of federal funds
for water treatment construction facilities.
   (D)   Equity suggests that new users who create the demand for expanded
facilities should be required to bear the capital, financing, and other costs
of the expansion, extensions, and additions of the water system to the extent
that their presence necessitates new facilities.
   (E)   The city finds it necessary to readopt that part of its rate system
related to the recovery of costs in order to provide for funding for water
systems for future customers.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.53 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS." The cost of the labor, materials, and expenses
directly related to the building of the project.
   "CITY COMMISSION." The Lake Mary City Commission, a Florida Municipal
Corporation.
   "CITY RATE RESOLUTIONS AND ORDINANCES." All resolutions and ordinances,
either currently in effect or to be adopted in the future, by the City
Commission or its successor which establish and fix rates, fees, and charges
for the city water system.
   "CITY OF LAKE MARY WATER SYSTEM." All facilities and interests in real and
personal property owned, operated, managed, or conditioned by the city now and
in the future and used to provide water service to existing and future
customers within the service area of the city.
   "DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM." The lines, meters, valves, and appurtenant devices to
transmit potable water from transmission lines to the customer.
   "ERU." An equivalent residential unit.
   "GPD." Gallons per day.
   "TRANSMISSION FACILITIES." Those lines, pipes, mains, water tanks, pumps,
water towers, meters, and appurtenant equipment used to transmit or store water
from the treatment facilities to the distribution system as defined and
determined by the city.
   "TREATMENT FACILITIES." Those facilities, such as wells, pumps, and raw
water lines, used to treat water prior to distribution and the housing for
those facilities.
   "WATER FACILITIES." All water distribution, transmission, and treatment
facilities, including all wells, lines, pipes, meters, couplings, pumps,
storage tanks, water towers, and appurtenant equipment necessary to provide
water service capacity.
   "WATER PERMIT." An additional permit containing anticipated ERU's prior to
project approval.
   "WATER SERVICE CAPACITY." The amount of water, measured in GPD, which can be
transmitted, treated, and provided to the customer.
   "WATER SYSTEM." Production, treatment, and delivery of potable water to
residences, businesses, buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, and
other customers of the city water system.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 839, passed 6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 51.54 WATER PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Water customers desiring to make connection to the city's water system shall
make application to the city for a water permit prior to the time of project
approval by the city. Such application shall contain the name of the owner,
name of the registered professional engineer working for the customer, property
location, project description and anticipated ERU's. This permit is in addition
to any other permits and approvals required by the city, the State Department
of Environmental Regulations, or any other jurisdictional body.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.55 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FUNDS; APPLICATION AND PLEDGE TO REVENUE BONDS OR
NOTES.
   (A)   The water system impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall
be deposited into a fund called the city water system improvement fund. The
fees deposited in the above-mentioned fund shall be used only for financing the
construction and acquisition of additions and extensions of the city water
system and all components thereof, including wells, distribution facilities,
treatment facilities, and other appurtenant facilities, in order to provide
additional water service capacity to those new customers who connect to the
city's water system. Financing of the system is to include, but not be limited
to, principal on the bonds or notes proceeds which have been or will be
expended for the expansion, extensions, and additions of the city's water
system to accommodate growth.
   (B)   The City Commission may by resolution provide for the application of
some or all of the water impact fee to the payment or security for the payment
of existing or future revenue bonds or notes issued in whole or in part for the
purposes set out in division (A) above, provided that the amount of water
impact fee applied to the payment of such bonds or notes shall not exceed the
amount of bond or notes proceeds actually expended for such purpose at the
average rate borne by the bonds or notes. Such application or pledge may be
made directly in the proceedings authorizing such bonds or notes or in an
agreement with an insurer of bonds or notes to assure such insurer of
additional security.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.56 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   In addition to the water impact fee, distribution system impact fees will be
addressed by ordinance, except where developers build their own lines in
accordance with city's specifications.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§§ 51.57 - 51.64 (RESERVED).
§ 51.65 ADOPTION.
   The City Commission does hereby adopt and establish, pursuant to general
law, a water system impact fee of $1,010 per ERU within the city. All fees and
charges paid pursuant to this section shall be nonrefundable.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 238, passed 11-7-85; Am. Ord. 439, passed
7-20-89; Am. Ord. 839, passed 6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.66 DETERMINATION OF EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT FACTORS.
   (A)   For purposes of calculating and imposing the water system impact fee
provided for in §
51.65, the ERU value [and corresponding volume of water measured in gallons per
day (GPD)] for any particular connection shall be calculated and imposed in the
manner provided as follows:
 Establishment Unit Volume Factor (GPD)
     Establishment                      Unit                Volume Factor (GPD)
(1)  Residential:                                           
    Single family home (detached or    dwelling unit       350
     attached)
     Multi-family (building containing
    three or more D.U.'s) (1 or 2      dwelling unit       300
     bedrooms)
     Multi-family (building containing
    three or more D.U.'s) (3 +         dwelling unit       350
     bedrooms)
    Mobile homes (1 or 2 bedrooms)     dwelling unit       300
    Mobile homes (3 or more bedrooms)  dwelling unit       350
(2)  Commercial:                                            
    Barber/beauty Shop                 per chair           120
    Bowling alley                      per chair           120
(3)  Food service w/seating:                                
    Restaurant/cafeteria               per seat            35
    Restaurant (24 hour)               per seat            60
    Restaurant ("fast food")           per seat            30
    Bar/cocktail lounge                per seat            35
     Hotel/motel (not including food
     service, banquet and meeting
(4)  rooms, and laundries)              per bed             120
     Hotel/motel banquet facilities and
     meeting rooms (calculated at
     restaurant rate)
(5)  Laundry/self service               per machine         470
(6)  Motel (see Hotel)                                      
     Office buildings/shopping center/
(7)  convenience stores without food    per 1,000 sq. ft.   120
     service w/seating)
(8)  Auto repair                        per bay             350
                                      per wash bay        1,120
                                      per toilet room     350
(9)  Theater                            per seat            5
(10) Dentist's office                   per dentist         300
                                      per wet chair       115
(11) Doctor's office                    per doctor          300
(12) Hospital                           per bed             60
(13) Schools, day type                  per student         20
(14) Schools, boarding                  per student         90
(15) Warehouse                          1,000 sq. ft. gross 50
(16) Self service storage               1,000 sq. ft. gross 25
(17) Place of worship (excludes         per seat             
     schools)
(18) Nursing home, Adult assisted       per bed             100
     living
 
   (B)   One equivalent residential unit (ERU) is established and determined to
be equal to a flow of approximately 350 gallons per day (GPD), average annual
basis. The "Total Equivalent Residential Unit Value" for an establishment shall
be calculated by multiplying the volume factor listed in division (A) above by
the number of units.
   (C)   For all establishments not listed above, the total ERU value shall be
determined by multiplying the number of fixture units, as published in the
Florida Building Code, Plumbing, by 25, and then dividing that numerator by
350. For example:
   Total   =   Number of fixture units x 25
   ERU value         350
   In no event shall the total ERU value used to calculate a water system
impact fee, when using this method be less than 1 ERU.
   If the Public Works Director determines that the actual water usage will be
greater than the ERU usage assigned to such category as set forth above, then
the Director may determine, based on actual usage, anticipated usage, peak load
requirements, or any combination of the foregoing using accepted engineering
standards, a different or greater total ERU value. Notice of any such
determination shall be sent to the City Commission.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 210, passed 11-1-84; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.67 APPLICABILITY.
   The water system impact fee set forth in §
51.65 hereof shall be paid by those new customers who connect to the city
system, except as follows: The city may exempt any customer from the payment of
any portion of the water system impact fee to the extent that the city accepts
a Contribution in Aid of Construction (CIAC) having a value of not less than
the portion of the water system impact fee being exempted.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 51.68 TIME OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter, 100% of the total
water impact fee shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of a site
construction permit, building permit, or business tax receipt, whichever comes
first. No city permits shall issue prior to the receipt of the water system
impact fee. If a building permit is not issued within 12 months from issuance
of a water permit, the city may return the customer's water impact fee and
require the customer to reapply for a water permit.
   (B)   The issuance of a water permit shall create no vested rights in the
permittee and shall not be construed as a guarantee of water service capacity
to the permittee. The city may permit connections to its water systems only if
it may lawfully do so and would not thereby violate any license, restriction,
injunction, moratorium, or denial of permission to connect imposed or issued by
any court of competent jurisdiction or by any applicable agency of the United
States, the state, or the city.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-17-84; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
CHAPTER 52: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 53: CITY WASTEWATER AND WATER SYSTEM FEES AND CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Short title
   
53.02   Billing procedures
   
53.03   Customer deposits
   
53.04   User rates and charges
   
53.05   Priority of payment
   
53.06   Payment of bills and disconnection for nonpayment
   
53.07   No free service
   
53.08   Returned check fee
   
53.09   Municipal liens for unpaid fees and charges
Wastewater System Fees and Charges
   
53.20   Objective
   
53.21   User rates and charges
   
53.22   Sewer charges applicable if sewer available
Water System Fees and Charges
   
53.30   Objective
   
53.31   Rates and charges
Cross-reference:
   City Wastewater System, see
Ch. 50
   City Water System, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This part shall be known and may be cited as the "City Wastewater and Water
System Fees and Charges."
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.02 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Fees and charges shall bear a reasonable relationship to the services
provided or costs incurred in the administration and the provision of
wastewater and water services and are billed monthly on a combined utility bill
by the Finance Department on a consolidated statement that may include, but is
not limited to, wastewater, water, garbage and stormwater services. Utility
services shall be separately listed. No user so charged for water and sewer
services may pay either of the charges without simultaneously paying the charge
for the other.
   (B)   Fees and charges may from time to time be modified by resolution of
the City Commission in compliance with the notice requirements of F.S. §
180.136.
   (C)   The city shall collect revenues pursuant to the adopted fees and
charges in accordance with law and generally acceptable accounting techniques.
   (D)   Revenues derived from fees and charges shall be appropriately
earmarked and deposited in the "Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund" and used for
the operation and maintenance, construction, acquisition, addition, extension,
renewal and replacement of the wastewater and water system.
   (E)   The uniform rates and charges established by this chapter shall be
reviewed annually, or as directed by the City Commission, and may be adjusted
by resolution.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.03 CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A deposit will be required upon application for service. A
satisfactory letter of good payment history may be submitted in lieu of a
deposit. On or about October 1 of each year, the city shall calculate the
interest accrued on the deposit for each account and deduct that amount of
interest from the amount due during the October billing cycle. The interest
deductible under this section shall be equal to the interest paid on a savings
account at local financial institutions as of September 30 of the same year.
Deposits for residential service will be refunded, with the appropriate
interest, at the end of two years of satisfactory payment history, or upon
discontinuance of service, after any outstanding charges due to the city have
been deducted. Commercial service deposits are refunded only at the
discontinuance of service, after any outstanding charges due to the city have
been deducted.
   (B)   At the discretion of the City Manager, a deposit may be increased by
up to three times the average monthly bill if the customer is late in paying
three monthly bills in any calendar year or if any such customer is
disconnected or service is discontinued by the city for reasons of delinquency.
Wastewater and water customer deposits are established by §§
53.22 and
53.30.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.04 USER RATES AND CHARGES.
   User rates and charges for the wastewater and water systems are established
by §§
53.21 and
53.31 and consist of a base charge and a flow charge.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.05 PRIORITY OF PAYMENT.
   Charges for all utility services are consolidated on one monthly statement
which is generally paid by a single payment. In the event that partial payment
is received, the payment shall first be applied to garbage, next to stormwater
management, next applied to wastewater, and finally to water services.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.06 PAYMENT OF BILLS AND DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills for monthly charges and fees shall be submitted by the city and
shall be paid by the users monthly. All accounts shall be due and payable on
the date statements are submitted to the users. If any monthly bill remains
unpaid for a period of 25 calendar days after the billing date for charges for
any period prior to that date, the bill is considered delinquent and a penalty
of 10% of the bill shall be imposed and added to the bill. Said penalty shall
be in addition to any amounts due, and shall apply to any previous unpaid
penalty amounts remaining from previous penalty assessments.
   (B)   Once a bill is delinquent, the city shall notify the user of
delinquency, by one of the following methods: mail, electronic media,
telephone, in person or door stating that the city shall shut off the water
connection if payment is not made by the specified date in the notice, which
shall be at least 30 days from the billing date. To avoid disconnection,
payment should be made to the City Finance Department before the end of the 30-
day period.
   (C)   Upon failure of any user to pay for services rendered by 5:00 p.m. on
the thirtieth day after the billing date, the city shall shut off the user's
water connection, and shall not furnish the user, or permit the user to
receive, further service until all past due amounts owed by the user, along
with all other pertinent charges, have been paid in full, together with a
delinquent service fee of $25. An additional $45 service fee will be charged if
reconnection is requested after 3:00 p.m. on weekdays, or anytime on weekends
or holidays.
   (D)   Collection of delinquent account fees. The city shall be entitled to
recover all costs, including but not limited to reasonable attorney's fees and
collection service charges, incurred in collecting delinquent water and
wastewater fees and charges. Any fee or charge due under this section which
shall not be paid when due may be recovered by referring the account to a third
party collection agency and/or by bringing an action at law.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 132, passed
4-16-81; Am. Ord. 209, passed 11-1-84; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord.
839, passed 6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.07 NO FREE SERVICE.
   The city will not render or cause to be rendered any free services of any
nature by its water and wastewater systems, or any part thereof, nor will any
preferential rates be established for users of the same class. In the event the
city or any department, agency, instrumentality, officer, or employee thereof
shall avail itself of the facilities or services provided by the water and
sewer systems, or any part thereof, the same rates, fees, or charges applicable
to other users receiving like services under similar circumstances shall be
charged to the city, to any department, agency, instrumentality, officer, or
employee. These charges shall be paid as they accrue, and the city shall
transfer from its general funds sufficient sums to pay these charges. The
revenues so received shall be deemed to be revenues derived from the operation
of the water and sewer systems, and shall be deposited and accounted for in the
same manner as other revenues derived from the operation of the water and sewer
systems.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 53.08 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   The city may charge a fee for checks returned to the city by the bank or
other institution, and this returned check fee shall be in accordance with the
maximum permitted by F.S. § 166.251, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 271, passed 2-5-86; Am. Ord. 300, passed 7-
2-87; Am. Ord. 333, passed 11-5-87; Am. Ord. 439, passed 7-20-89; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed 6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1046, passed 2-7-02; Am.
Ord. 1304, passed 11-6-08; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.09 MUNICIPAL LIENS FOR UNPAID FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall have a lien on all lands or premises served by its
water and wastewater system for all fees and service charges for such water
facilities until paid, which lien shall be prior to all other liens on such
lands or premises, except the lien of state, county and municipal taxes, and
shall be on a parity with the lien of such state, county and municipal taxes.
Such lien shall arise at the time of connection of water and wastewater service
to such lands or premises and shall be due and payable at the time of
delinquency of any unpaid water impact fees or service charges. Interest shall
accrue on unpaid liens at the rate of 12% per annum.
   (B)   The city shall be entitled to institute foreclosure proceedings at any
time after a lien is attached when the fees are delinquent for a period of more
than 30 days, such proceedings to be in accordance with law, and the city shall
be entitled to collect reasonable attorneys' fees from the owner for services
rendered by the city's attorneys in the institution and prosecution of such
foreclosure proceedings. [Reference F.S. § 159.17]
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
WASTEWATER SYSTEM FEES AND CHARGES
§ 53.20 OBJECTIVE.
   The objective of this system of fees and charges is to generate revenues
from user charges adequate to pay operational, maintenance, and replacement
costs for the sewerage system and treatment works owned and operated by the
city. Wastewater impact fees have been adopted and established under §§
50.140 through
50.148.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
§ 53.21 USER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges adopted hereby shall apply to each customer of the
city's wastewater system. These rates and charges may be amended by resolution
of the City Commission.
   (A)   Wastewater service deposit. For new wastewater user water accounts,
the customer shall pay a wastewater service deposit to be determined as
follows:
      (1)   Residential account deposit charges: $45 per customer.
      (2)   Commercial account deposit charges:
Water Meter Size (Inches) Minimum Wastewater Deposit (Dollars)
Water Meter Size (Inches) Minimum Wastewater Deposit (Dollars)
5/8 x 3/4                 45
1                         115
1-1/2                     225
2                         360
3                         720
4                         1,125
6                         2,250
8                         3,600
10                        4,000
 
      (3)   A master-metered multi-unit customer deposit is 50% per ERU of a
single family deposit.
      (4)   Actual deposit for commercial customers shall be the greater of two
times the projected monthly billing or the minimum shown above as determined by
the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   Base fees. The minimum monthly charge to uses shall be the Seminole
County wholesale sewage rate, as adjusted from time to time by the county.
   (C)   Residential maximum water use. There shall be a maximum user monthly
charge based upon a maximum water use of 10,000 gallons of metered water use
per month for residential customers.
   (D)   Base fees based on readiness to serve shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential base fee: $6.50 per month;
      (2)   Commercial base fees:
Water Meter Size (Inches) Charge (Dollars)
Water Meter Size (Inches) Charge (Dollars)
5/8 x 3/4                 6.50
1                         14.90
1-1/2                     28.90
2                         45.70
3                         90.50
4                         140.90
6                         280.90
8                         280.90
10                        280.90
Note: Base fees for 8-inch and 10-inch meter sizes shall be equal to 6-inch
meter size as additional capacity is related to water flow rather than
wastewater flow.
 
   (E)   Seminole County wholesale wastewater sewage treatment and disposal
charge pass through provision. To the extent Seminole County's wholesale sewage
treatment and disposal charges to the city are increased or decreased
(expressed on a dollar per 1,000 gallon basis for such wastewater service), the
city shall immediately pass through the adjusted charges to the city's
wastewater customers. The adjustment for the change in wholesale sewage
treatment and disposal charges shall be added to the wastewater retail user
charges as provided hereinabove in effect at the time of the adjustment and
shall apply to each customer beginning with the next full billing cycle after
the effective date of the wholesale sewage treatment and disposal charge rate
adjustment.
   (F)   City of Sanford wholesale wastewater user charge including a pass-
through provision. Wastewater users located in the incorporated area of the
City of Lake Mary that receive wastewater services from the City of Sanford
will be billed fees and charges equal to the amount the city pays to the City
of Sanford plus a $3.00 per month administrative fee. To the extent the City of
Sanford's wholesale wastewater service charges to the city are increased or
decreased (expressed on a dollar per 1,000 gallon basis for such wastewater
service), the city shall immediately pass through the adjusted charges to the
city's wastewater customers. The adjustment for the change in wholesale
wastewater services shall be added to the wastewater retail user charges as
provided hereinabove in effect at the time of the adjustment and shall apply to
each customer beginning with the next full billing cycle after the effective
date of the wholesale wastewater service charge rate adjustment.
   (G)   Sewer impact fees. Sewer impact fees shall be paid, collected, and
administered as set forth in
Chapter 50.
(Ord. 426, passed 6-15-89; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed
6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 12-17-15)
§ 53.22 SEWER CHARGES APPLICABLE IF SEWER AVAILABLE.
   The rates and charges established by this chapter shall apply to all users,
whether owner, tenant, or occupier of the city sanitary sewer system where a
city sewer is available for use, whether or not connection has been made to the
sewer. These charges shall not apply to any nonconnected user, however, until
after notice of sewer availability, as required by F.S. § 381.00655, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 118, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 638, passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 1518, passed
11-6-14)
WATER SYSTEM FEES AND CHARGES
§ 53.30 OBJECTIVE.
   The objective of this system of fees and charges is to generate revenues
from user charges adequate to pay operational, maintenance, and replacement
costs for the water system owned and operated by the city. Water system impact
fees have been adopted and established under §§
51.51 through
51.68.
(Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14)
§ 53.31 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges adopted hereby shall apply to each customer of the
city's water system. These rates may be amended by resolution of the City
Commission.
   (A)   City potable water system monthly retail service rates: 1
 ERU Factor Rates
                                                 ERU Factor Rates
INDIVIDUALLY METERED RESIDENTIAL                            
Readiness to Serve Charge/Base Fee               1.0        $5.17
Usage Charge per 1,000 Gallons:                             
0 - 3,000 gallons per ERU                                  $0.92
(minimum bill includes 2,000 gallons)
3,001 - 10,000 gallons per ERU                             $1.41
10,001 - 20,000 gallons per ERU                            $1.91
20,001 - 30,000 gallons per ERU                            $2.64
30,001 - 40,000 gallons per ERU                            $3.75
40,001 - 50,000 gallons per ERU                            $5.23
Above 50,000 gallons per ERU                               $6.70
RESIDENTIAL IRRIGATION                                      
Readiness to Serve Charge/Base Fee               1.0        $5.17
Usage Charge per 1,000 Gallons:                             
0 - 3,000 gallons per ERU                                  $1.41
(minimum bill includes 2,000 gallons)
3,001 - 20,000 gallons per ERU                             $1.91
20,001 - 30,000 gallons per ERU                            $2.64
30,001 - 40,000 gallons per ERU                            $3.75
40,001 - 50,000 gallons per ERU                            $5.23
Above 50,000 gallons per ERU                               $6.70
MULTI-UNIT                                                  
Readiness to Serve Charge/Base Fee (Per Unit)[1] 0.5        $2.15
Usage Charge per 1,000 Gallons:                             
0 - 1,500 gallons per unit                                 $0.92
(minimum bill includes 2,000 gallons)
1,501 - 5,000 gallons per unit                             $1.41
5,001 - 10,000 gallons per unit                            $1.91
Above 10,000 gallons per unit                              $2.64
COMMERCIAL SERVICE2                                         
Readiness to Serve Charge/Base Fee                          
5/8 x 3/4"                                       1.0        $5.17
1"                                               2.5        $11.62
1-1/2"                                           5.0        $22.39
2"                                               8.0        $35.30
3"                                               16.0       $69.74
4"                                               25.0       $108.49
6"                                               50.0       $216.11
8"                                               80.0       $346.49
10"                                              115.0      $497.90
Usage Charge per 1,000 Gallons:                             
0 - 3,000 gallons per ERU                                  $0.92
3,001 - 10,000 gallons per ERU                             $1.41
10,001 - 20,000 gallons per ERU                            $1.91
Above 20,000 gallons per ERU                               $2.64
COMMERCIAL IRRIGATION2                                      
Readiness to Serve Charge/Base Fee                          
5/8 x 3/4"                                       1.0        $5.17
1"                                               2.5        $11.62
1-1/2"                                           5.0        $22.39
2"                                               8.0        $35.30
3"                                               16.0       $69.74
4"                                               25.0       $108.49
6"                                               50.0       $216.11
8"                                               80.0       $346.49
Usage charge per 1,000 gallons:                             
0 - 3,000 gallons per ERU                                  $1.41
3,001 - 20,000 gallons per ERU                             $1.91
Above 20,000 gallons per ERU                               $2.64
1 All consumers outside of the city limits shall pay a surcharge of 25% in
addition to the above-listed rates.
2 This table applies to all customers not considered as individually metered
residential, residential irrigation, or multi-unit.
[1] One unit is considered to be 0.5 ERU.
 
   (B)   City reclaimed water system monthly retail service rates:
Reclaimed Water
Reclaimed Water
Readiness to serve charge/base fee
5/8 x 3/4" $5.17
1"         $11.62
1-1/2"     $22.39
2"         $35.30
3"         $69.74
4"         $108.49
6"         $216.11
8"         $346.49
 
   Reclaimed water pass through provision: Usage charge per 1,000 gallons shall
be the rate as charged by the City of Sanford plus a 25% city surcharge. To the
extent that the cost of reclaimed water is increased or decreased by the City
of Sanford, the city shall immediately pass through the adjusted charges to the
city's reclaimed water customers. The adjustment for the change in reclaimed
water rates shall apply to each customer beginning with the next full billing
cycle after the effective date of the rate adjustment.
   (C)   Water impact fees. Water impact fees shall be paid, collected, and
administered as set forth in
Chapter 51.
   (D)   Monthly wholesale service rates. The monthly wholesale service rate
shall be a volume charge of $.90 per 1,000 gallons, together with payment of
costs for required improvements to be set forth by written agreement on a case-
by-case basis. Billing period and payment shall be as set forth by written
agreement on a case-by-case basis.
   (E)   Meters (up to and including two inches in size), meter boxes, and
distribution lines. Following satisfactory completion of the water supply and
distribution system, and upon receipt of the applicable meter installation fee,
the city shall furnish, install and own the necessary fittings, meter, and
meter box at the property line or other appropriate location. The owner or
developer of the property desiring service shall bear the expense of the
service lateral pipe of the required size, from and including its connection
with a corporation stop at the water distribution main in the right-of-way, to
and including a curb stop at the property line. Service piping from the
property line to the building is to be installed by the property owner or
developer.
   Meters larger than two inches shall be furnished and installed by the owner
or developer of the property desiring service. Subsequent to installation of
the meter, the meter shall be conveyed to the city.
   (F)   Meter installation fee. Meter installation fees shall be charged for
each connection into the water supply of the city and shall be paid in advance
upon making an application. The following fees cover the original turn-on
order, the connection of the meter to distribution lines, and the meter:
 
Size (Inches) Fee
5/8" and 3/4" $245
1"            290
1-1/2"        380
2"            490
2"+           cost paid by owner (Sec. E)
 
   (G)   Water customer deposits. Water customer deposits are as follows:
      (1)   Residential account deposit charges: $40 per customer.
      (2)   Commercial account deposit charges:
Water Meter Size (Inches) Minimum Water Deposits
Water Meter Size (Inches) Minimum Water Deposits
5/8" and 3/4"             $40
1"                        100
1-1/2"                    200
2"                        320
3"                        640
4"                        1,000
6"                        2,000
8"                        3,200
10"                       4,000
 
      (3)   A master-metered multi-unit customer deposit is 50% per ERU of a
single family deposit.
      (4)   The actual deposit for commercial customers shall be the greater of
two times the projected monthly billing or the minimum shown above, as
determined by the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (H)   Turn-on and turn-off fees. After service is connected, any request
to have water turned off will be subject to a turn-off fee of $10.
Additionally, there will be a charge of $10 for any turn-on requested or
required after the original installation. In the case where only a reading of
the meter is necessary, a $10 fee will be charged which shall be equally
distributed between the old and the new customer. Same day service connections
must be requested by 3:00 p.m. on a weekday, or an after hours charge of $45
will apply for same day turn-on service.
   (I)   Temporary (hydrant) meter. The city may offer the rental of a
temporary (hydrant) meter when needed for construction. A customer deposit of
$800 is required and monthly charges will be billed based on commercial base
fees and usage charges.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-20-76; Am. Ord. 271, passed 2-5-86; Am. Ord. 300, passed 7-
2-87; Am. Ord. 333, passed 11-5-87; Am. Ord. 439, passed 7-20-89; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 4-15-93; Am. Ord. 839, passed 6-5-97; Am. Ord. 1046, passed 2-7-02; Am.
Ord. 1304, passed 11-6-08; Am. Ord. 1518, passed 11-6-14; Am. Ord. 1537, passed
2-18-16; Am. Ord. 1608, passed 3-21-19)
CHAPTER 54: PROPER USE OF FERTILIZERS
Section
   
54.01   Findings
   
54.02   Purpose and intent
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Applicability
   
54.05   Timing of fertilizer application
   
54.06   Fertilizer free zones
   
54.07   Low maintenance zones
   
54.08   Fertilizer content and application rates
   
54.09   Application practices
   
54.10   Management of grass clippings and vegetative matter
   
54.11   Exemptions
   
54.12   Training
   
54.13   Licensing of commercial fertilizer applicators
   
54.14   Enforcement, penalties and legal proceedings
§ 54.01 FINDINGS.
   As a result of impairment to surface waters caused by excessive nutrients,
and as a result of increasing levels of nitrogen in the surface and ground
water within the aquifers and springs, the City Commission hereby determines
that the use of fertilizers creates a risk to contributing to adverse effects
on surface and ground water. Accordingly, the City Commission hereby finds that
management measures contained in the most recent edition of the Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the
Green Industries are required.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter:
      (1)   Regulates the proper use of fertilizers by any applicator;
      (2)   Requires proper training of commercial and institutional fertilizer
applicators;
      (3)   Establishes training and licensing requirements;
      (4)   Establishes a prohibited application period; and
      (5)   Specifies allowable fertilizer application rates and methods,
fertilizer free zones, low maintenance zones, and exemptions.
   (B)   This chapter requires the use of best management practices, which
provide specific management guidelines to minimize negative secondary and
cumulative environmental effects associated with the misuse of fertilizers.
These secondary and cumulative effects have been observed in and on natural and
constructed stormwater conveyances, rivers, creeks, canals, springs, lakes, and
other water bodies. Collectively, these water bodies are an asset critical to
the environmental, recreational, cultural, and economic well-being of city
residents and the health of the public in general.
   (C)   Overgrowth of algae and vegetation hinder the effectiveness of flood
attenuation provided by natural and constructed stormwater conveyances.
Regulation of nutrients, including both nitrogen and phosphorus contained in
fertilizer, will help improve and maintain water and habitat quality.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the meanings set
forth in this section. Words not defined in this chapter have the meaning as
provided in other sections of this code, and otherwise have the meaning
provided by common and ordinary use.
   “APPLICATION” or “APPLY.” The actual physical deposit of fertilizer to turf,
landscape plants, or both.
   “APPLICATOR.” Any person who applies fertilizer on turf, landscape plants,
or both.
   “APPROVED BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES TRAINING PROGRAM.” A training program
approved pursuant to F.S. § 403.9338 (2016), as this statute may be amended
from time to time, or any more stringent requirements set forth in this chapter
that includes the most current version of the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection’s Florida-Friendly Best Management Practices for
Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries, as this document may be
amended from time to time.
   “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.” Turf and landscape practices or a combination
of practices based on research, field-testing, and expert review, determined to
be the most effective and practicable on- location means, including economic
and technological considerations, for improving water quality, conserving water
supplies and protecting natural resources.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, OFFICIAL or INSPECTOR.” Any designated employee
or agent who has the duty to enforce codes and ordinances.
   “COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER APPLICATOR.” Any person who applies fertilizer for
payment or other consideration to property not owned by the person or firm
applying the fertilizer or the employer of the applicator, except as provided
in F.S. § 482.1562(9) (2016), as this statute may be amended from time to time.
   “FERTILIZE.” The act of applying fertilizer to turf, specialized turf, or
landscape plants.
   “FERTILIZER.” Any substance or mixture of substances that contains one or
more recognized plant nutrients and promotes plant growth, or controls soil
acidity or alkalinity, or provides other soil enrichment, or provides other
corrective measures to the soil. “FERTILIZER” does not include unmanipulated
peat or compost that make no claims as described in the preceding sentence.
   “GUARANTEED ANALYSIS.” The percentage of plant nutrients or measures of
neutralizing capability claimed to be present in a fertilizer.
   “INSTITUTIONAL FERTILIZER APPLICATOR.” Any person, other than a private,
non-commercial or a commercial fertilizer applicator (unless such definitions
also apply under the circumstances), that applies fertilizer for the purpose of
maintaining turf, landscape plants, or both. “INSTITUTIONAL FERTILIZER
APPLICATORS” include, but are not limited to, owners, managers or employees of
public lands, schools, parks, religious institutions, utilities, industrial, or
business sites and any residential properties maintained in condominium or
other form of common ownership.
   “LANDSCAPE PLANT.” Any native or exotic tree, shrub, or groundcover
(excluding turf).
   “LOW MAINTENANCE ZONE.” An area a minimum of ten feet wide adjacent to water
courses that is planted and managed in order to minimize the need for
fertilization, watering, mowing, and related activities.
   “PERSON.” Any natural person, business, corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, limited partnership, association, club, organization, or
any other group of people acting as an organized entity.
   “PROHIBITED APPLICATION PERIOD.” The time period during which a flood watch
or warning, or a tropical storm watch or warning, or a hurricane watch or
warning is in effect for any portion of the county, issued by the National
Weather Service, or if heavy rain, as defined by the World Meteorological
Organization as rainfall greater than or equal to two inches in a 24-hour
period, is likely.
   “RECLAIMED WATER.” A high quality alternative water source that has received
at least secondary treatment and is reused after being discharged from a
domestic wastewater treatment facility. Moreover, there are some constituents,
such as nitrogen and phosphorus found in recycled water. These constituents are
beneficial for plant growth, and will serve as an additional “fertilizing”
source.
   “SATURATED SOIL.” A soil in which the voids are filled with water.
Saturation does not require flow. For the purposes of this chapter, soils are
considered saturated if standing water is present or the pressure of a person
standing on the soil causes the release of free water.
   “SLOW RELEASE, CONTROLLED RELEASE, TIMED RELEASE, SLOWLY AVAILABLE, OR WATER
INSOLUBLE NITROGEN.” Nitrogen in a form that delays its availability for plant
uptake and use after application or that extends its availability to the plant
longer than a reference rapid or quick release product.
   “TURF, SOD, or LAWN.” A piece of grass-covered soil held together by the
roots of the grass.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to and regulates any and all applicators of fertilizer
and areas of application of fertilizer within the city, unless such applicator
is specifically exempted by the terms of this chapter. This chapter operates
prospectively only, and does not impair any existing contracts.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.05 TIMING OF FERTILIZER APPLICATION.
   (a)   No applicator may apply fertilizers containing nitrogen, phosphorus,
or both to turn, landscape plants, or both during the prohibited application
period, or to saturated soils.
   (b)   Fertilizer containing nitrogen or phosphorus may not be applied before
seeding or sodding a site, and may not be applied for the first 30 days after
seeding or sodding, except when hydro-seeding for temporary or permanent
erosion control in an emergency situation, or in accordance with and adopted
stormwater pollution prevention plan for that site.
   (c)   Fertilizer containing nitrogen or phosphorus may not be applied to
turn or landscape plants from June 1 through September 30 of each year.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.06 FERTILIZER FREE ZONES.
   Fertilizer may not be applied within 15 feet of any pond, stream,
watercourse, lake, canal, or wetland as defined by the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection Rule 62-340, Florida Administrative Code (2016), as
this regulation may be amended from time to time, or from the top of a seawall.
Newly planted turf, landscape plants, or both may be fertilized in this zone
only for a 60-day period beginning 30 days after planting if needed to allow
the pants to become well established. Caution must be used to prevent direct
deposition of nutrients into the water.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.07 LOW MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   A voluntary ten-foot low maintenance zone is strongly recommended, but not
mandated, from any pond, stream, water course, lake, wetland, or from the top
of a seawall. A swale/berm system is recommended for installation at the
landward edge of this low maintenance zone to capture and filter runoff. No
mowed or cut vegetative material may be deposited or left remaining in this
zone or deposited in the water. Care must be taken to prevent the over- spray
of aquatic weed products in this zone.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.08 FERTILIZER CONTENT AND APPLICATION RATES.
   (A)   Fertilizers applied to turf must be applied in accordance with
requirements and directions provided by Rule 5E-1.003, Florida Administrative
Code, “Fertilizer Label Requirements for Urban Turf, Sports Turf or Lawns”
(2016), as this regulation may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Nitrogen or phosphorus fertilizer may not be applied to turf or
landscape plants except as provided in division (A) for turf, or in the
University of Florida/IFAS recommendations for landscape plants, vegetable
gardens, and fruit trees and shrubs, unless a soil or tissue deficiency has
been verified by an approved test. Soil and tissue tests for phosphorus are
normally done by UF/IFAS or another accredited laboratory. IFAS recommendations
are available from the County Extension Service or http://
solutionsforyourlife.ufl.edu/lawn and garden/.
   (C)   No fertilizer containing phosphorus may be applied to turf, sod,
lawns, or landscape plants unless a soil or plant tissue deficiency is verified
by a testing methodology approved by the University of Florida, Institute of
Food and Agricultural Sciences. If a deficiency is verified, the application of
fertilizer containing phosphorus must adhere to the rates and directions for
the appropriate region of Florida, as adopted by Florida Administrative Code
rule. This division (C) controls over any inconsistent provisions in divisions
(A) and (B) above regarding phosphorus.
   (D)   Fertilizers containing nitrogen applied to turn or landscaping plants
within the city must contain no less than 50% slow release nitrogen per
guaranteed analysis label. If the necessary product is available on the local
commercial market on March 1, 2020, then this requirement will increase to no
less than 65% slow release nitrogen effective on this date. This division (D)
controls over any inconsistent provisions in divisions (A) and (B) above
regarding nitrogen.
   (E)   The above referenced application rates must be reduced appropriately
on properties where reclaimed wastewater is used for irrigation based on
available nutrients in the reclaimed water as reported by the provider of the
reclaimed water.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.09 APPLICATION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Spreader deflector shields are required when fertilizing by rotary or
broadcast spreaders. Deflectors must be positioned such that fertilizer
granules are deflected away from all impervious surfaces, fertilizer free
zones, and water bodies, including wetlands.
   (B)   Fertilizer must not be applied, spilled, or otherwise deposited on any
impervious surfaces.
   (C)   Any fertilizer applied, spilled, or deposited either intentionally or
accidentally, on any impervious surface must be immediately and completely
removed to the greatest extent practicable.
   (D)   Fertilizer released on an impervious surface must be immediately
contained and either legally applied to turf or any other legal site, or
returned to the original or other appropriate container.
   (E)   In no case may fertilizer be washed, swept, or blown off impervious
surfaces into stormwater drains, ditches, conveyances, or water bodies.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.10 MANAGEMENT OF GRASS CLIPPINGS AND VEGETATIVE MATTER.
   In no case may grass clippings, vegetative material, vegetative debris, or
any combination of them be washed, swept, or blown off into storwmwater drains,
ditches, conveyances, water bodies, wetlands, or sidewalks, or roadways. Any
material that is accidentally so deposited must be immediately removed to the
maximum extent practicable.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   Bona fide farm operations as defined in F.S. § 823.14, “Florida Right
to Farm Act” (2016), as this statute may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Other properties not subject to or covered under division (A) above
that have pastures used for grazing livestock.
   (C)   Any lands used for bona fide scientific research, including, but not
limited to, research on the effects of fertilizer use on stormwater, water
quality, agronomics, or horticulture.
   (D)   Golf courses, athletic fields and turf managed for active recreation,
whose owners implement best management practices as described in Rule 5E-1.003
(2)(d), Florida Administrative Code, “Fertilizers Labeled for Sports Turf at
Golf Courses, Parks and Athletic Fields” (2016), as this regulation may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Any fruit or vegetable gardens, provided they are not within 15 feet
of any waterbody or wetland.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.12 TRAINING.
   (A)   All commercial and institutional fertilizer applicators shall abide by
and successfully complete the six- hour training program in the Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the
Green Industries offered by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection
through the University of Florida/IFAS Florida-Friendly Landscapes program, or
an approved equivalent.
   (B)   Private, non-commercial applicators are encouraged to follow the
recommendations of the University of Florida/IFAS Florida- Friendly Landscapes
program when applying fertilizers.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.13 LICENSING OF COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER APPLICATORS.
   (A)   By September 30, 2014, all commercial fertilizer applicators were
required by state law to abide by and successfully complete training and
continuing education requirements in the Florida- Friendly Best Management
Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries, offered by
the Florida Department of Environmental Protection through the University of
Florida/IFAS Florida-Friendly Landscapes program, or an approved equivalent
program. Commercial fertilizer applicators shall provide proof of completion of
the program prior to obtaining a new local business tax receipt for any
category of occupation which may apply any fertilizer to turf, landscape
plants, or both. Commercial fertilizer applicators with an existing local
business tax receipt for any category of occupation which may apply any
fertilizer to turf, landscape plants, or both shall provide proof of completion
of the program within 30 days after completing the program as required by state
law prior to September 30, 2014.
   (B)   After September 30, 2014, all commercial fertilizer applicators were
required by state law to have and carry in their possession at all times when
applying fertilizer, evidence of certification by the Florida Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services as a commercial fertilizer applicator
pursuant to Rule 5E-14.117(18), Florida Administrative Code (2016), as this
regulation may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   By September 30, 2014, all businesses applying fertilizer to turf,
landscape plants, or both (including but not limited to residential lawns,
commercial properties, and multi- family and condominium properties) were
required by state law to ensure that at least one employee has a Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the
Green Industries training certificate. Business owners for any category of
occupation which may apply any fertilizer to turf, landscape plants, or both
shall provide proof of completion of the program by at least one employee prior
to the business owner obtaining a new local business tax receipt. Business
owners for any category of occupation which may apply any fertilizer to turf,
landscape plants, or both with an existing local business tax receipt shall
provide proof of completion of the program by at least one employee within 30
days after completing the program and prior to September 30, 2014.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
§ 54.14 ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter
may be subject to any applicable civil enforcement mechanisms available to the
city, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Injunctive relief;
      (2)   Referral to the City of Lake Mary, Florida Code Enforcement Board;
or
      (3)   Issuance of a citation pursuant to §
37.02 of this code.
   (B)   Violators of this chapter can present a serious threat to public
welfare and are potentially irreparable or irreversible. Therefore, pursuant to
Chapter 37 of this code and F.S. § 162.21(3)(b) (2016), as these provisions may
be amended from time to time, a city Code Enforcement Officer may immediately
issue a citation to any person in violation of this chapter if the Code
Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that the violation presents a serious
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, or if the violation is
irreparable or irreversible.
   (C)   Each incidence of violation under this chapter constitutes a separate
violation and offense and a separate offense will be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   In addition to the other remedies provided in this section, the city
is authorized to make application in a court of appropriate jurisdiction for an
injunction restraining any person from violating, or continuing to violate any
provisions of this chapter. Further, the city may avail itself of any other
legal or equitable remedy available to it in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter or any provision of any resolution enacted pursuant to this
chapter.
   (E)   The city may elect to take any or all of the above remedies
concurrently, and the pursuit of one does not preclude the pursuit of another.
(Ord. 1569, passed 7-27-17)
CHAPTER 55: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 56: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
Section
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Intent of chapter
   
56.03   Results of non-compliance
   
56.04   Review process
   
56.05   Affected facilities
   
56.06   Responsibility of owner/customer
   
56.07   Responsibility of backflow prevention device installers
   
56.08   Existing facilities
   
56.09   New facilities
   
56.10   Reclaimed water facilities
   
56.11   Emergency procedures
   
56.12   Inspection of existing facilities
   
56.13   Inspection of newly constructed facilities
   
56.14   Inspection of reclaimed water facilities
   
56.15   Premise isolation
   
56.16   Installations requiring uninterrupted service
   
56.17   Exterminating companies
   
56.18   Fire systems
   
56.19   Other cross-connection hazards
   
56.20   Testing
   
56.21   Repair and maintenance
   
56.22   Records
   
56.23   Testers and tester’s list
   
56.24   Violations and liability
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AIR GAP (AG)." The vertical distance through the atmosphere between a water
supply outlet and a tank, or receptor, and the flood level of that receptacle.
The separation must be at least twice the diameter of the water supply outlet,
never less than one inch.
   "AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM OR SUPPLY." Any water supply available to the
premises other than the city's public potable water supply.
   "BACKFLOW." The undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water distribution
system as a result of a cross connection.
   "BACKPRESSURE." A pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused by a
pump, elevated tank, boiler, or any other means that may cause backflow.
   "BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY” or “BACKFLOW PREVENTER (BFP)." An assembly
that meets the design and performance standards of the American Water Works
Association used to prevent a backflow.
   "BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER." A person certified by the University
of Florida Certification Program or the Florida Water & Pollution Control
Operators Association Program for backflow prevention assembly testers or other
FDEP approved programs.
   "BACKSIPHONAGE." Backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure in the
supply piping.
   "CROSS CONNECTION." A connection between a potable water system and any
other environment containing other substances in a manner that would allow such
substances to enter the potable water system.
   "DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA)." The approved double check valve
assembly consists of two internally loaded check valves installed as a unit
between two shutoff valves with properly located test cocks.
   "REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RPBA)." The approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly consists of two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating,
mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located between the
check valves and below the first check valve. These units are located between
two shutoff valves as an assembly and equipped with properly located test
cocks.
   "RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK (RDC)." A compact unit manufactured with two
independent spring actuated check valves. It is approved by the State of
Florida, according to 62-555.360 FAC.
   "SERVICE CONNECTION." The terminal end of the public potable water system,
i.e., where the city loses jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at
its point of delivery to the consumers' water system. If a meter is installed
at the end of the service connection, then the service connection shall mean
the downstream end or consumers' side of the meter.
   "VACUUM BREAKER, ATMOSPHERIC." An approved vacuum breaker - non-pressure
type is designed for use where it will not be subject to static line pressure.
It consists of a float check, a check seat and an air inlet port.
   "VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE (PVB)." An approved assembly which consists of an
independently operating internally loaded check valve and an independently
operating loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check
valve, with properly located test cocks and shutoff valves attached at each end
of the assembly.
   "WATER, POTABLE." Water from any source which has been treated to Florida
Department of Environmental Protection standards and which has been approved
for human consumption. “POTABLE WATER” is water of excellent quality intended
for drinking, cooking, and cleansing uses.
   "WATER, RECLAIMED." Water which, as a result of treatment of domestic
wastewater, is suitable for a direct beneficial use or a controlled use that
would not otherwise occur. “RECLAIMED WATER” is also known as reuse water.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.02 INTENT OF CHAPTER.
   The intent of the Cross-Connection Control (CCC) Program is to protect the
public potable water supply of the city from the possibility of contamination
and to comply with all applicable federal and state laws, including 62-555 FAC.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.03 RESULTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any person failing to comply with the CCC Program, or any part thereof,
shall be deemed in non-compliance. Service of water to any premise shall be
subject to disconnection by the city if a backflow assembly required by law,
rules, or regulations is not installed, tested, and maintained; or if the city
determines that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed or bypassed, or
if unprotected cross connections exist on the premises and there is inadequate
backflow protection at the service connection. Water service shall not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected. All turn-off and turn-
on service charges shall be paid by the customer.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.04 REVIEW PROCESS.
   Construction plans for a proposed facility or modifications to an existing
facility shall be submitted to the Building and Life Safety Division at the
time of application for the building permit or at the time of application for
water service. Approval of proposed backflow prevention assemblies must be
obtained prior to the issuance of the building permit or installation of new
water service.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.05 AFFECTED FACILITIES.
   Plan review shall be performed on all new commercial, industrial and multi-
family facilities and existing facilities with proposed modifications at the
time of application for the building permit. Existing commercial, multi-family
and other residential customers with existing wells or alternate water sources
available to their property or irrigation systems, or any customers who may
reasonably be suspected to have a cross-connection to the city public water
supply system, shall be inspected by the Public Works Department. The owner/
customer shall install an appropriate backflow prevention assembly as directed
by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER/CUSTOMER.
   The owner/customer's responsibility starts at the point of delivery from the
public potable water system and includes the customer's water system. The
owner/ customer, at his or her own expense, shall install, operate, test and
maintain approved backflow prevention assemblies, as directed by the Public
Works Department, with copies of such records. The records shall be on forms
approved or provided by the Public Works Department. In the event of accidental
pollution or contamination of the public or owner/ customer's potable water
system due to backflow on or from owner/customer's premises, the owner/customer
shall promptly take steps to confine further spread of pollution or
contamination within the customer's premises and shall immediately notify the
Public Works Department of the hazardous condition.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE INSTALLERS.
   The installer's responsibility is to properly install backflow prevention
assemblies in accordance with this section, the manufacturer's installation
instructions and any additional instructions required by the Public Works
Department. The installer is also responsible to ascertain whether an assembly
is working properly when installed and is required to furnish the following
information to the Public Works Department immediately after a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer (RP), double check valve assembly (DCVA) or
pressure vacuum breaker (PVB) is installed: 1) service address where device is
located; 2) owner; 3) description of device's location and size; 4) date of
installation; 5) type of device; 6) manufacturer; 7) model number; 8) serial
number; 9) water meter number; and 10) utility account number. All RP, DCVA,
and PVB assemblies are required to be tested immediately following installation
by a certified backflow assembly tester approved by the Public Works
Department.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.08 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The owner/customer of a premise which the Public Works Department
determines needs an inspection shall be notified 30 days in advance to secure
an appointment for inspection of the premises. The Public Works Department
shall send a letter of notification to the owner/customer indicating what
corrective measures, if any, must be taken, the type of device to be installed,
and the time limit for the installation.
   (B)   Upon compliance with the requirements set forth in the notification
letter, the owner/customer shall immediately notify the Public Works Department
to schedule a date for re-inspection.
   (C)   If the owner/customer refuses to permit an inspection, either internal
or external, to the building, the owner/customer shall, within 30 days after
notification by the city, install and test a reduced pressure backflow
preventer on the water service. The resulting test shall be submitted to the
city within 24 hours of test completion.
   (D)   Existing commercial, industrial, multi-family and single-family
irrigation systems shall comply with this section, either by retrofitting a
device of a type approved by the Department, or by replacement of an existing
device, if necessary.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.09 NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each commercial, industrial or multi-family facility applicant for
water service shall be required to comply with this section. Applicants for
water service to new single-family residences may be screened for potential
cross connections to the city's water system and, if such potential conditions
exist, shall be subject to this section. If the Public Works Department
determines that a potential cross connection exists, the Public Works
Department shall establish a hazard level commensurate with the degree of that
hazard level utilizing AWWA standards as minimum guidelines. The Public Works
Department shall require the installation of a specific type of backflow
prevention assembly for the premises.
   (B)   The Public Works Department may send a letter of notification to the
new applicant for water service, or the requirements may be noted on approved
construction plans indicating what backflow prevention measures must be taken,
the type of device to be installed, and the time limit for the installation.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.10 RECLAIMED WATER FACILITIES.
   Reclaimed water use shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   All reclaimed water systems and facilities shall comply with Chapter
62-610, F.A.C.
   (B)   All potable water lines entering an area irrigated by reclaimed water
shall attach appropriate approved backflow prevention assemblies according to
this section.
   (C)   No connection shall be permitted between the reclaimed water system
and a potable water system, source, or any private irrigation well.
   (D)   All private irrigation wells shall be physically disconnected from the
reclaimed water system.
   (E)   No reclaimed water shall be permitted to enter buildings or dwelling
units.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.11 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   In the event a cross connection is discovered or a water meter is found
running steadily backwards, the city's potable water system shall be assumed to
be in imminent danger of contamination, and the following procedures shall be
instituted:
   (A)   Shut off the water to the premises and, if possible, remove the water
meter.
   (B)   Immediately call the Lake Mary Public Works Department.
   (C)   The Public Works Department shall immediately report to the affected
area, confirm the area is contaminated, and isolate the water system within the
area.
   (D)   The Public Works Department shall immediately notify the State of
Florida, Department of Health local office and the FDEP, Orlando Branch Office.
   (E)   The Public Works Department shall take water samples at various
stations within and without the isolated area of the water system to determine
the extent of the contamination.
   (F)   The Public Works Department shall submit a written report to the
F.D.E.P. and Department of Health local office within 30 days after discovery
of the backflow incident.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.12 INSPECTION OF EXISTING FACILITIES.
   Inspection of premises shall be done at least on an annual basis. Duly
authorized employees or agents of the Public Works Department shall be
permitted to enter upon the premises for the purpose of sampling or testing the
potable water supply or to make inspections or observations of connections to
the potable water supply. If the Public Works Department is not permitted to
make an inspection, the owner/consumer shall be required to install a reduced
pressure backflow prevention assembly. Failure to install the required device
within 30 days of receipt of notice from the Public Works Department shall
constitute non-compliance with the Program.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.13 INSPECTION OF NEWLY CONSTRUCTED FACILITIES.
   Upon making application for water service and prior to connection to the
city's water system, the owner/consumer or his agent shall have obtained the
appropriate building permit, installed the correct backflow prevention assembly
as determined by the Public Works Department, and obtained an inspection by the
Public Works Department and/or the Building and Life Safety Division to
determine compliance with the Program. The Public Works Department shall not
establish water service until such time as the owner/ consumer complies with
these standards.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.14 INSPECTION OF RECLAIMED WATER FACILITIES.
   Inspections shall be performed using a specific checklist to ensure
compliance with 62-610 FAC and 62-555 FAC. These periodic inspections will
serve to detect any cross connections between the reclaimed water system and
the public potable water system.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.15 PREMISE ISOLATION.
   (A)   An approved BFP assembly of the type designated shall be installed on
each water service connection to the following types of premises. This list is
presented as a guide and is not intended to be complete. The Public Works
Department may require a device providing a higher level of protection if, in
the opinion of the Department, conditions warrant added protection.
Premise Description Assessment of Hazard Recommended Assembly at Service
                                         Connection
Premise Description            Assessment of Hazard Recommended Assembly at
                                                    Service Connection
Apartments with fire hydrants,
blowoffs, pools or irrigation  Non Health           DCVA
system
Breweries, Distilleries        Health               RPBA
Car Wash with reclaimed water, Health               RPBA
or recycling system
Chemical Plants                Health               RPBA
Commercial Laundry             Health               RPBA
Dairies                        Non Health           DCVA
Dentist or Doctor Office       Health               RPBA
Docks & Dockside Facilities    Health               RPBA
Fertilizer Plants              Health               RPBA
Film Laboratory or Processing  Health               RPBA
Plant
Food & Beverage Processing     Health               RPBA
Plants
Hospitals, Clinics,
Mortuaries, Laboratories or    Health               RPBA
Medical Facilities*
Irrigation Systems             Non-Health           DCVA OR PVB
Premise Description Assessment of Hazard Recommended Assembly at Service
                                         Connection
Premise Description            Assessment of Hazard Recommended Assembly at
                                                    Service Connection
Irrigation Systems             Health               PVB OR RPBA
Irrigation Systems with        Health               RPBA
Chemical Injectors
Machine Tool Plants            Health               RPBA
Master Metered Strip Shops &   Health or Non Health RPBA
Malls
Individually Metered Stores &
Businesses in Commercial       Health or Non Health RPBA
Strips & Malls
Metal Processing Plant         Health               RPBA
Metal Plating Plant            Health               RPBA
Nursing Homes                  Health               RPBA
Packing Houses or Rendering    Health               RPBA
Plants
Paper Products Plant           Health               RPBA
Pesticide, Herbicide or        Health               PVB overhead fill or AG
exterminating companies**                           Overhead fill
Petroleum Processing Plant or  Health               RPBA
Storage Facility
Pharmaceutical or Cosmetic     Health               RPBA
Plant
Pleasure - Boat Marina         Health               RPBA
Power Plants or Steam Plants   Non Health           RPBA
Premises where inspection is   Health               RPBA
restricted
Radioactive Material Plants    Health               RPBA
Reclaimed Water Systems        Health               RPBA
(Commercial)
Restaurants with Soap
Educators and/or Industrial    Health               RPBA
Type Disposal
Sand & Gravel Plants           Health               RPBA
Schools                        Health               RPBA
Shopping Centers               Health or Non Health RPBA
Storm Water Pumping Station    Health               RPBA
Swimming Pools with Piped Fill Health               AG AT POOL OR RPBA
Line
Tall Buildings (over 3         Health or Non Health RPBA
stories)
Veterinary                     Health               RPBA
Wastewater Pumping Stations    Health               RPBA
Wastewater Treatment Plants or Health               RPBA
Reclaimed Storage Plants
 
*See §
56.16
**See §
56.17
   (B)   In addition to and including those types of premises listed above, an
approved backflow prevention assembly of the type designated shall be installed
on each potable water service connection to any premises containing the
following real or potential hazards. The Public Works Director may require an
assembly providing a higher level of protection if, in the opinion of the
Public Works Director, conditions warrant added protection.
 
Premises having an auxiliary water system not connected to public water  RPBA
system
Premises having a water storage tank, reservoir, pond, or similar        RPBA
appurtenance
Premises having a steam boiler, cooling system, or hot water heating     RPBA
system where chemical water conditioners are used
Premises having submerged inlets to equipment                            RPBA
Premises having self-draining yard hydrants, fountains, hose boxes, or
similar devices presenting a health or system hazard (i.e., chemical     RPBA
storage plants, tank farms, bulk storage yards)
Premises having self-draining yard hydrants, fountains, hose boxes, or
similar devices presenting a pollution hazard (i.e., parks, play fields, DCVA
cemeteries)
Premises of single-family residence having reclaimed water               RDC
 
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.16 INSTALLATIONS REQUIRING UNINTERRUPTED SERVICE.
   All backflow prevention assemblies with test cocks are required to be tested
with a minimum frequency of once per year. Testing requires a water shutdown
usually lasting five to 20 minutes. For facilities requiring an uninterrupted
supply of water, or, if not possible to provide water service from two separate
meters, provisions shall be made for a "parallel installation" of backflow
prevention assemblies.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.17 EXTERMINATING COMPANIES.
   All tanks, tank trucks, and spraying apparatus used to convey pesticides in
an extermination process shall use only "designated-protected" potable water
fill locations. Filling with potable water at unspecified locations or private
residences is prohibited. All filling locations and methods of backflow
prevention and types of devices used must be approved by the Public Works
Department.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.18 FIRE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention assembly of the type designated shall
be installed on each fire protection service to any premises where the fire
protection system contains any of the following components unless the Public
Works Department determines that no real or potential hazard to the public
water system exists. Fire systems may be divided into six general classes. The
following are typical:
 
Class 1 
Direct connections from public water mains only; no pumps, tanks,
or reservoirs; no physical connection from other water supplies;  DCVA or DDCVA
no antifreeze or other additives of any kind; all sprinkler
drains discharging to atmosphere, dry wells, or other safe
outlets.
Class 2 
Same as Class 1, except that booster pumps may be installed in
the connections from the street mains (booster pumps do not       DCVA or DDCVA
affect the potability of the system). It is necessary, however,
to avoid drawing so much water that pressure in the water main is
reduced below 20 psi.
Class 3 
Direct connection from public water supply mains, or plus one or
more of the following: elevated storage tanks; fire pumps taking
suction from above ground covered reservoirs or tanks; and        DCVA or DDCVA
pressure tanks. (All storage facilities that are filled or
connected to public water only, the water in the tanks are to be
maintained in a potable condition. Otherwise, Class 3 systems are
the same as Class 1.)
Class 4 
Directly supplied from public mains, similar to Class 1 and Class
2, with an auxiliary water supply dedicated to fire department    RPBA
use and available to the premises, such as an auxiliary supply
located within 1700 ft. (518 m) of the pumper connection.
Class 5 
Directly supplied from public mains and interconnected with
auxiliary supplies, such as pumps taking suction from reservoirs  RPBA
exposed to contamination, or rivers and ponds; driven wells;
mills or other industrial water systems; or where antifreeze or
other additives are used.
Class 6 
Combined industrial and fire protection systems supplied from the RPBA
public water mains only, with or without gravity storage or pump
suction tanks.
 
   (B)   Special considerations for fire systems or fire-fighting equipment.
      (1)   Pressure in the public potable water main shall not be reduced
below 20 PSI as a result of the fire fighting activities.
      (2)   Foam trucks or fire-fighting vehicles shall not be able to
contaminate the public potable water supply. Necessary precautions shall be
taken and BFP assemblies should be used where feasible.
       (3)   Pressure loss across BFP assemblies can be as much as 14 psi. The
design of new fire systems should incorporate this pressure loss. Existing fire
systems retrofitting BFP assemblies should determine if pressure loss across
the BFP device will cause the fire system to become ineffective or non-
functional for fire-fighting activities.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.19 OTHER CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARDS.
   (A)   Fixture inlets or valved outlets - Hose attachments which may
constitute a cross connection shall be protected by the proper approved vacuum
breaker (AVB, HBVB, etc.) installed at least six inches to 12 inches above the
highest point of usage and located on the discharge side of the last valve.
Fixtures with an integral vacuum breaker manufactured as a unit may be
installed in accordance with approved requirements.
   (B)   Air condition cooling tower - A reduced pressure zone backflow
preventer shall be attached to the potable water inlet.
   (C)   Aspirators and ejectors - Shall have an AVB or PVB, depending upon the
degree of hazard, on the faucet from which these devices are attached or
operated.
   (D)   Booster pumps - Interconnection shall not be permitted unless the
public supply is protected by an RP at the service connection and written
approval received from the Public Works Department.
   (E)   Private wells - Interconnection shall not be permitted.
   (F)   Portable spray and cleaning equipment - Any portable pressure spray or
cleaning units with the capacity to connect to any potable water supply and not
containing a built-in approved air gap shall be fitted with a reduced pressure
backflow assembly.
   (G)   Miscellaneous uses of water from fire hydrants - The operation of fire
hydrants by other than authorized personnel is prohibited. The Public Works
Department may permit use of water from a fire hydrant for construction or
other purposes, provided the applicant shall properly apply for, and comply
with, backflow requirements on a hydrant use permit.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.20 TESTING.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner/customer at any premises where
reduced pressure backflow prevention assemblies (RP), double check valve
assemblies (DCVA), and pressure vacuum breakers (PVB) are installed to have
inspections and operational tests performed at least once a year and more often
in those instances where inspections indicate otherwise. These inspections and
tests shall be at the expense of the owner/customer and be performed by a
certified backflow prevention assembly tester. The Public Works Department
shall notify the owner/customer when tests are required. The owner/customer or
the certified backflow prevention assembly tester on behalf of the owner/
customer shall complete and return tester forms to the Public Works Department
by the date indicated.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.21 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner/customer shall be responsible for repairs necessary to
maintain good working condition of the backflow prevention equipment.
   (B)   After repair of any BFP assembly, the assembly shall be tested by a
certified backflow prevention assembly tester. An affirmation of compliance by
the certified backflow prevention assembly tester shall be provided to the
Public Works Department within ten days of completion of such repairs.
   (C)   The owner/customer of a backflow prevention assembly which fails a
test or does not meet the standards of the Program shall repair, alter or
replace the backflow prevention assembly to meet such standards. The owner/
customer shall have 30 days from the date of the inspection report to correct
any deficiencies or problems with the backflow prevention assembly.
   (D)   In cases of non-compliance with the BFP assembly repair requirements
contained in this section, the Public Works Department Director reserves the
right to repair or have repaired, at the owner/consumer's expense, the BFP
assembly(ies) located on the consumer's premises.
   (E)   The painted exterior surfaces of BFP assemblies, including valves and
piping, shall be maintained in good condition without evidence of chipping,
peeling and other deformations of the coating.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.22 RECORDS.
   The Public Works Department shall retain all records of tests, inspections,
surveys and repairs as required by F.S. Ch. 119 and 62-550, FAC. Records of
numbered backflow devices containing location, type, size, use, model and
serial number of each device shall be cross referenced with records of tests,
inspections, surveys and repairs.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.23 TESTERS AND TESTER'S LIST.
   (A)   To ensure continued satisfactory operation of a BFP assembly, testing
shall be performed by individuals who are trained and certified in the design,
operation and testing of BFP assemblies.
   (B)   A certified BFP assembly tester may supply the Public Works Department
with the following information:
      (1)   Copy of current testers certification(s);
      (2)   Expiration date of current certification(s);
      (3)   Name, company address, telephone and fax numbers; and
      (4)   Copy of recent calibration of test equipment.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
§ 56.24 VIOLATIONS AND LIABILITY.
   Any person or owner/customer violating the provisions of the CCC program
shall be subject to possible termination of water service; possible fines and/
or fees; liability to the city for any expense or loss incurred as a result of
physical or structural damage to the public potable water system or
contamination of the public potable water system; and any legal action which
may be taken by the City Attorney's office.
(Ord. 1212, passed 9-7-06)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Adoption of state law by reference
   
70.03   Police Department to regulate motor vehicles and traffic
   
70.04   Regulation of sale of motor vehicles, trailers, boats, and equipment
Powers and Duties of Chief of Police
   
70.10   Chief of Police to regulate traffic operations and parking
   
70.11   Regulating motor vehicles
   
70.12   Designating uses or prohibitions for streets
   
70.13   Establishing speed limits and regulating turning and passing
   
70.14   Creating parking and standing zones
   
70.15   Regulating non-motorized traffic
Traffic Rules
   
70.25   General provisions
   
70.26   Speed limits
   
70.27   Stopping, standing, and parking
   
70.28   Responsibility for motor vehicles
   
70.29   Abandonment
   
70.30   Operation of golf carts
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.45   Impoundment and redemption of illegally parked vehicles
   
70.46   Issuance of citations
   
70.47   Alteration or destruction of citations
   
70.48   Parking fines; procedures upon noncompliance with parking violation
notice
   
70.49   Liability for payment of parking ticket violations
   
70.50   Referral of parking infractions to civil traffic infraction hearing
officer
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ABANDONED VEHICLE.” Any vehicle, as defined in this section, regardless of
size, which is left unattended, on any public property or public right-of-way,
for a period exceeding 24 consecutive hours.
   “DISABLED VEHICLE.” Any vehicle, regardless of size, which is incapable of
being propelled upon the public streets of the city, or which does not meet the
requirements for operation upon the public streets of the city, including a
current vehicle license.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any self-propelled vehicle not operated upon rails or guide
way, but not including any bicycle, motorized scooter, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or moped.
   “OWNER.” The person who holds legal title to a vehicle. In the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof, with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated
in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, the latter shall be deemed the owner for the
purpose of this chapter.
   “PARK.” To cause a vehicle to stand, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   “POLICE OFFICER.” Every officer of the Police Department of the city or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   “PRIVATE ROAD” or “PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.” Every road or driveway not open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel exclusive of the shoulder or berm.
   “SAFETY ZONE.” The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of a pedestrian and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   “STANDING.” Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   “STOP.” When required, “STOP” means a complete cessation of movement.
   “STREET” or “HIGHWAY.” The entire width between the boundary of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for the purpose of vehicular traffic and the entire width between the boundary
lines of every privately owned way or place used for vehicular travel by the
owner and those having expressed or implied permission from the owner, but not
by other persons, whenever by written agreement entered into under F.S. §
316.006(2)(b) or (3)(b), the city exercises traffic control jurisdiction over
said way or place.
   “TRAFFIC.” Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   “TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.” Any device indicating regulations of traffic of
whatever nature within the city.
   “TRAILER.” Every vehicle with or without motive power designed to carry
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   “TRUCK.” Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for
transportation of property.
   “VEHICLE.” Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1296, passed 8-7-08; Am. Ord. 1329, passed
8-20-09)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   F.S. Chapters 316, 318, 320, and 322 are adopted as the traffic code of the
city. The matters and the contents therein are made a part of this chapter by
reference as fully and completely as if set forth herein. Copies of the laws
shall remain on file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available for
public inspection.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.03 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO REGULATE MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department, to enforce the provisions
of this chapter and the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic in the city,
to make arrests for traffic violations, to assist in the prosecution of persons
charged with these violations, to investigate accidents, to cooperate with
other officials of the city in the administration of the traffic code and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.04 REGULATION OF SALE OF MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAILERS, BOATS, AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Private homeowners may offer for sale one motor vehicle, trailer,
boat, or equipment, from their property with a "for sale" sign on it, for a
period of no more than 14 calendar days, one time every six months upon first
obtaining a permit from the Finance Department for each item and the payment of
a permit fee. The fee for said permit shall be as established in §
150.05.
   (B)   Private homeowners may offer for sale one motor vehicle, trailer,
boat, or equipment at any given time through the newspaper, sales magazines, or
other method of written or verbal advertising so long as no "for sale" signs
exist on the item for sale or on the lot or parcel where the item is located
within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale any motor vehicle, trailer, or
boat at any time on the rights-of-way bordering the city streets and roads or
on any public property.
   (D)   Except as specifically provided hereinabove, no motor vehicle,
trailer, or boat may be offered for sale by the display of any sign or writing
on such vehicle, trailer, or boat or within 100 feet thereof, anywhere within
the city limits unless the same be located upon lands specifically zoned for
the sale of such items.
(Ord. 232, passed 9-19-85; Am. Ord. 724, passed 11-17-94; Am. Ord. 1271, passed
11-15-07; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 70.10 CHIEF OF POLICE TO REGULATE TRAFFIC OPERATIONS AND PARKING.
   The Chief of Police shall have the power and is authorized to regulate the
operation and parking of vehicles within the corporate boundaries of the city,
by erection or placement of proper signs or markers, by installation of
official traffic-control devices, or by utilization of police officers to
direct motorists. The presence of these signs or markers, traffic-control
devices, or police officer at any place within the corporate boundaries of the
city shall be prima facie evidence that these signs or markers or traffic-
control devices were erected or placed by and at the direction of the Chief of
Police, or that the police officer was assigned by the Chief of Police, in
accordance with the provisions of this section. This power shall include the
functions listed in §§
70.11 through
70.15.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.11 REGULATING MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The powers of the Police Chief concerning the regulation of motor vehicles
include the following.
   (A)   Regulating or prohibiting stopping, standing, or parking.
   (B)   Regulating or prohibiting processions or assemblages on the streets or
highways, including all state or federal highways lying within the boundaries
of the city.
   (C)   Adopting and enforcing such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions.
   (D)   Requiring written accident reports.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.12 DESIGNATING USES OR PROHIBITIONS FOR STREETS.
   The powers of the Police Chief concerning the designation of uses or
prohibitions for streets including the following:
   (A)   Restricting the use of streets.
   (B)   Recommending to the City Commission designation of particular highways
or roadways for use by traffic moving in one direction.
   (C)   Recommending to the Commission designation of any street as a through
street or any intersection as a stop or yield intersection.
   (D)   Prohibiting or regulating the use of controlled-access roadways by any
class or kind of traffic.
   (E)   Prohibiting or regulating the use of heavily traveled streets by any
class or kind of traffic found to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic.
   (F)   Recommending to the Commission designation and regulation of traffic
on play streets.
   (G)   Designating and regulating traffic in school zones as prescribed by
state statute.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.13 ESTABLISHING SPEED LIMITS AND REGULATING TURNING AND PASSING.
   The powers of the Police Chief concerning the establishment of speed limits
and regulation of turning and passing include the following:
   (A)   Altering or establishing speed limits within the provisions of F.S.
Chapter 316.
   (B)   Establishing speed limits for vehicles in public parks.
   (C)   Designating no passing zones.
   (D)   Regulating or prohibiting the turning of vehicles or specified types
of vehicles, including U-turns.
   (E)   Designating hazardous railroad grade crossings in conformity with
criteria promulgated by the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.14 CREATING PARKING AND STANDING ZONES.
   The powers of the Police Chief concerning the creation of parking and
standing zones include the following:
   (A)   Establishing parking meter zones, including size and number of spaces
therein, erecting parking meters, and designating parking time allowed.
   (B)   Establishing bus stops and taxi cab stands.
   (C)   Establishing loading and unloading zones.
   (D)   Establishing regulations governing prohibiting overnight parking.
   (E)   Establishing regulations governing alternate side parking.
   (F)   Establishing regulations governing the parking of trucks or commercial
vehicles in residential areas.
   (G)   Establishing regulations regarding all other parking regulations.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.15 REGULATING NONMOTORIZED TRAFFIC.
   The powers of the Police Chief concerning nonmotorized traffic include the
following:
   (A)   Prohibiting pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business district
or any designated highway except on a crosswalk.
   (B)   Regulating pedestrians crossing at unmarked crosswalks.
   (C)   Erecting signs in the right-of-way to control, regulate, or prohibit
hitchhiking on streets or highways, including all state or federal highways
lying within city boundaries.
   (D)   Regulating the operation of bicycles.
   (E)   Regulating persons upon skates, coasters, and other toy vehicles.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
TRAFFIC RULES
§ 70.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Sections
70.26 through
70.28 below specify regulations pertaining to operation of motor vehicles,
including driving, stopping, standing, and parking, within the city limits, as
well as regulations governing other types of transportation and traffic.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.26 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit within the municipal boundaries of the city
shall be 30 miles per hour, except that the City Commission has set a maximum
speed of 20 or 25 miles per hour in certain residential districts or speed
zones, by resolution, on local streets and highways, after an investigation was
performed to determine that such a limit was reasonable. In accordance with the
procedures prescribed by state law, the Commission may reduce the speed limit
in the future for other residential districts or speed zones.
   (B)   All speed zones shall be posted with clearly visible and legible signs
and no change in speeds from the 30 mile per hour speed limit established by
the Florida Statutes shall take effect until the zone is posted changing the
speed pursuant to division (A) above.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.27 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in violation of the
regulations cited below, unless a sign is present posting advice to the
contrary.
   (A)   Prohibited places. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or to comply with law or the directions of a police officer or official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On a sidewalk, or in the driveway where it crosses the sidewalk.
         (b)   Within an intersection.
         (c)   On a crosswalk or within twenty feet of an intersection.
         (d)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of the safety zone, unless the
Department of Transportation indicates a different length by signs or markings.
         (e)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
it would obstruct traffic.
         (f)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure.
         (g)   On any railroad tracks.
         (h)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         (i)   In any parking space specifically designated and marked for the
disabled, unless such vehicle displays a parking permit as required by state
law; or in such a manner as to block or obstruct a wheelchair ramp.
         (j)   In front of a public or private driveway.
         (k)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
         (l)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
         (m)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance, when the sign is properly posted.
         (n)   Alongside any curb which has been painted yellow or red, unless
otherwise specifically permitted by appropriate signs or devices posted by the
city.
         (o)   In any area designated as a fire lane.
         (p)   On any property owned or controlled by the city not designated
for parking, unless otherwise approved by the City Commission, or authorized by
city code.
         (q)   In painted safety zones on roadways within the city, except for
emergency purposes. Any vehicle parked in such a roadway, for more than two
hours will be towed at the owner's expense pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
         (r)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing,
unless the Department of Transportation establishes a different distance due to
unusual circumstances.
   (B)   Prohibited purposes. No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon a
roadway for the purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale.
      (2)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   (C)   Obedience to parking signs and space markings. On streets, highways,
or other locations where parking spaces are officially indicated by signs or
markings, parking shall be allowed only within the spaces and then only for the
time officially indicated by the authorized signs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle in any parking space designated by painted lines,
unless the vehicle is parked wholly within the marked lines.
   (D)   Use of bus and taxicab stands. No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop or a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when
any stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately marked. The
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
   (E)   Loading/unloading zones. The Chief of Police is authorized to
designate and cause to have marked loading/unloading zones on any streets
within the city. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose
or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or
pick-up and loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to loading zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed the time indicated
on the sign or signs.
   (F)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic and
with the curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the
roadway, except upon a street which has been marked or a sign erected for angle
parking, a vehicle shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
mark or sign.
   (G)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in a street in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of any lane of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop momentarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to a traffic regulation or traffic
sign or signal or police officer.
   (H)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle’s ignition whether or not
the motor is in use.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on
a parkway except as below. For the purposes of this section, “PARKWAY” is
defined as that area from the right-of-way line to the edge of pavement of the
lateral lines of a roadway including any grassy or unpaved median between two
paved areas. The prohibition shall not apply to motor vehicles owned or
operated by the city, by a public utility, or by the county, state or federal
government when such vehicles are engaged in the performance of work by
employees of said agencies in the course and scope of their employment, nor
shall the prohibition apply to authorized emergency vehicles actually engaged
in emergency service.
   (J)   Fire lanes shall be established utilizing SBCCI Standard Fire
Prevention Code by the Fire Chief on private property, devoted to public use,
where the parking of motor vehicles or other obstructions may interfere with
the ingress and egress of fire department vehicles for the protection of
persons or property. Marking of fire lanes designated by the Fire Chief shall
be done by the owner or lessee of the private property. Fire lane pavement
markings and signs shall be of a type and constructed to confirm with the Lake
Mary Land Development Code, furnished and erected by the owner or the lessee of
the private property.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 723, passed
11-3-94; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.28 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in his or
her name to stand or park in any street, avenue, or alley in the city in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter regulating the standing and
parking of a vehicle.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.29 ABANDONMENT.
   No person being the owner or in control of a dismantled motor vehicle shall
abandon such dismantled, partially dismantled, wrecked, junked, or nonoperating
vehicle on any roadway, street, alley, highway, or other public right-of-way or
easement. The vehicle shall be deemed to have been abandoned if it remains at
that location for 24 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 1272, passed 12-20-07; Am. Ord. 1329,
passed 8-20-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.30 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Golf carts may not be operated upon any city street except the various
public street right-of-ways within one-mile radius of a golf course with a
current business tax receipt issued by the City of Lake Mary or Seminole
County, therein located, for the sole and express purpose of transporting the
owner or operator of the golf cart between the owner’s or operator’s residence
and the golf course; or except within a planned unit development agreement for
the purposes of maintenance or showing properties for lease, where the city has
made a determination that golf carts can travel safely on a particular street,
after consideration of speed, volume and the character of traffic on the
street. The limitation herein contained shall not preclude the crossing of any
public street right- of-way by golf cart incident to actual play of the course.
   (B)   Golf carts may only be operated during the hours between sunrise and
sunset, unless the golf cart is equipped with headlights, brake lights, turn
signals, and a windshield, as provided by F.S. § 316.212, as may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   Any golf cart operated upon a public street right-of-way must be
equipped with efficient brakes, reliable steering apparatus, safe tires, a
rear-view mirror, and red reflectorized warning devices in both the front and
rear.
   (D)   The operator of any golf cart, pursuant to this section, must be 14
years of age or older.
(Ord. 560, passed 9-5-91; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09; Am. Ord. 1591, passed
7-12-18)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.45 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department shall be vested with the authority
and it shall be their duty to impound any unoccupied vehicle parked in
violation of any of the parking regulations of the city where the vehicle
impedes traffic, creates a safety hazard, or appears to be abandoned on public
property or public right-of-way.
   (8)   Thereafter, the vehicle shall be released to the duly identified owner
thereof only upon the payment of any fine and the storage, towing, and other
impounding charges.
   (C)   The Police Department shall exercise due diligence to identify and
notify the owner.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed
8-20-09)
§ 70.46 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   (A)   Any police officer shall attach to any vehicle parked in violation of
this chapter a notice to the owner or operator thereof instructing the owner to
report to the Lake Mary Police Department/Records Section in regard to the
violation. In addition to police officers of the city, the following employees,
in addition to their defined duties, are hereby designated a parking
enforcement officer and authorized to issue parking violation citations under
this section: all full time or part time employed firefighters and inspectors;
code enforcement officers and community service officers.
   (B)   The citation is and shall remain the property of the city before and
after the serving, delivery, or affixing thereof and is and shall be considered
an integral part of the Police Department. All persons receiving any such
notice in writing, whether by personal service or by affixing of the same to a
vehicle, shall be required to preserve the notice and to bring and present or
otherwise transmit the notice to the Lake Mary Police Department/Records
Section when answering the charge set forth in the notice.
   (C)   Each person shall have 30 days from the day when the notice was
attached to the vehicle to respond to the Lake Mary Police Department/Records
Section.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed
8-20-09)
§ 70.47 ALTERATION OR DESTRUCTION OF CITATIONS.
   No person, whether the recipient thereof or otherwise, shall willfully throw
away, alter, mar, mutilate, destroy, or discard the written notice of the city
described in §
70.46.
   (A)   No person finding affixed to any vehicle the written notice of the
city described in §
70.46, whether he is the owner, operator, or driver of or a passenger in the
vehicle to which the notice is affixed, shall willfully throw away, alter, mar,
mutilate, destroy, or discard the written notice of the city so found affixed
to the vehicle.
   (B)   No person not being the owner or having charge of or operating a
vehicle to which may be found affixed the written notice of the city described
in §
70.46 shall willfully remove, take away, mar, alter, mutilate, destroy, or
discard any notice so affixed, nor shall any person receive any notice from
another for the purpose of so mutilating or destroying the notice or for the
purpose of constituting himself the agent of the recipient for any purpose
other than the proper and lawful adjustment, at the Lake Mary Police
Department/Records Section, of the charge contained in the notice.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed
8-20-09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 PARKING FINES PROCEDURES UPON NONCOMPLIANCE WITH PARKING VIOLATION
NOTICE.
   (A)   The Lake Mary Police Department/Records Section shall accept payment
of civil penalties for parking violations and issue receipts therefor. The Lake
Mary Police Department/Records Section shall maintain a record of the civil
penalties, record all monies collected, and deposit monies in the general fund
account.
   (B)   If any person summoned by a parking violation notice affixed on a
motor vehicle does not respond to the notice within the time period specified
on the notice, the Lake Mary Police Department/Records Section shall assess a
$10 delinquent fee per violation against the registered owner of the motor
vehicle. In addition, a copy of the ticket shall be sent to the registered
owner of the motor vehicle which was cited, informing the owner of the parking
violation notice, the failure to comply therewith and the provisions to contest
the violation in court. The notice shall direct the recipient to respond within
ten calendar days; otherwise, a summons may be issued for failure to comply.
After 30 days there will be an additional $10 delinuqency and cost of
collection.
   (C)   Any person who fails to respond to the original parking violation
notice within the time specified on the notice shall be deemed to have waived
the right to contest the merits of the parking violation.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 293, passed 5-21-87; Am. Ord. 660, passed
9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF PARKING TICKET VIOLATIONS.
   Under authority of F.S. Chapter 316 the owner of a vehicle is responsible
and liable for payment of any parking violation under this chapter unless the
owner can furnish evidence that the vehicle was, at the time of the parking
violation, in the care, custody or control of another person. In such
instances, the owner of the vehicle is required, within a reasonable time after
notification of the parking violation, to furnish to the Police Chief or his or
her designee, the name and address of the person or company who leased, rented,
or otherwise had the care, custody or control of the vehicle. The owner of a
vehicle is not responsible for a vehicle stolen or in the care, custody, or
control of some person who did not have permission of the owner to use the
vehicle. Prima facie evidence that the vehicle involved was, at the time,
stolen or in the care, custody or control of some person who did not have
permission of the owner to use the vehicle, shall be in the form of a report
from the appropriate law enforcement official that said vehicle was not under
the care, custody or control of the owner of the vehicle.
(Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.50 REFERRAL OF PARKING INFRACTIONS TO CIVIL TRAFFIC INFRACTION HEARING
OFFICER.
   (A)   If unpaid, all violations of the municipal parking ordinance shall be
referred to a county judge or a hearing officer designated to preside over
civil traffic infractions in the county.
   (B)   Each violation will be adjudicated in accordance with the provisions
of the city ordinance or state statute.
   (C)   Upon written request of the defendant contained in a Notice of
Appearance or a written plea, the parking infraction case shall be assigned to
a county judge or hearing officer regularly assigned to hear traffic matters.
(Ord. 779, passed 1-18-96; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for each violation of the regulations relating to parking,
stopping, or standing under any section of this chapter shall be as adopted by
resolution of the City Commission. The owner or operator of the motor vehicle
may pay the amount of the fine specified on the notice of violation within five
days of its issuance in full satisfaction of the citation, or they may request
a hearing before a judge of the County Court or hearing officer. Any person
electing to appear before the designated Court shall be deemed to have waived
his right to pay the civil penalty as set forth herein. The judge or hearing
officer, after hearing, shall make a determination as to whether a violation
has been proven. The judge may impose a fine not to exceed the maximum penalty
prescribed by resolution, plus court costs.
(Ord. 221, passed 4-18-85)
   (B)   The Clerk of the Court or the Traffic Violations Bureau shall provide
the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles with information on
any person who fails to pay the fine(s) established, or otherwise satisfy three
or more parking violation citations. The Clerk of the Court or the Traffic
Violations Bureau, shall supply this information to the Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles on a magnetically encoded computer tape reel or
cartridge which is machine readable by the installed computer system of the
Department, for the purpose of marking the appropriate registration records of
those so listed, in accordance with the provisions of F.S. §§ 316.1967(6) and
320.03(8).
   (C)   Any vehicle found parked in a designated fire safety zone shall be
ticketed with an “Illegal Parking” ticket, as used by the city. The fine for
parking in a designated fire safety zone shall be $45 plus a $5 surcharge to be
used for Fire Department training programs pursuant to and as authorized by
F.S. § 316.008(5). Two dollars from each paid parking citation issued under
this chapter will be placed into the Law Enforcement Training Fund for the
city, as authorized by F.S. § 938.15.
   (D)   After 30 days, if the fine remains unpaid and if no hearing has been
requested, the outstanding balance owed shall be turned over to a collection
agency for collection.
   (E)   The fine schedule for the below violations shall be adopted by
resolution and may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission.
VIOLATIONS:
     Violation              Base Fee Delinquent after 30 Total after 30 days
                                     days
(1)  No parking             $40      $10                 $50
(2)  No parking anytime     40       10                  50
(3)  Parking over line      40       10                  50
(4)  Improper parking       40       10                  50
(5)  Parking where          40       10                  50
     prohibited
(6)  Yellow curb            40       10                  50
(7)  Left wheels to curb    40       10                  50
(8)  No parking here to     40       10                  50
     corner
(9)  Bus space              40       10                  50
(10) No parking this side   40       10                  50
(11) No parking - emergency 40       10                  50
(12) Disabled only/permit   250      10                  260
     required
(13) Parking in fire safety 50       10                  60
     zone/hydrant
(14) Parking on sidewalk    40       10                  50
(15) Blocking driveway      40       10                  50
(16) Over posted time limit 40       10                  50
(17) Other                  40       10                  50
 
(Ord. 660, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 1329, passed 8-20-09; Am. Res. 849, passed
8-20-09)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
91A.   DEBRIS REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE STREETS, ROADS, ROADWAYS AND PRIVATE
PROPERTY
      
92.   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORT
      
96.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
97.   COMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS- OF-WAY
      
98.    EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Adoption of county regulations
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts Chapter 20, Animal Control, of the Seminole County
Code, as may be amended from time to time. In addition to the Seminole County
Code, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any animal shall be responsible for
the removal of any waste deposited by their animal upon any public property,
right-of- way or private property of another.
   (B)   Violations of the County’s animal control ordinance within the city
limits, including the above provision, can also be enforced through the city’s
code enforcement citation process in accordance with
Chapter 37 of this code.
(Ord. 27, passed 4-9-75; Am. Ord. 1276, passed 3-20-08; Am. Ord. 1658, passed
3-3-22)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandoned iceboxes
Noise Control
   
91.15   Purpose and scope
   
91.15.1   Definitions
   
91.15.2   Powers and duties
   
91.16   Prohibited acts
   
91.17   Exceptions and exemptions
   
91.18   Sound levels by received land
   
91.19   Measurement procedures
   
91.19.1   Enforcement
Solid Waste Collection
   
91.30   Statement of intent
   
91.31   Definitions
   
91.32   Mandatory pick-up
   
91.33   Entitlement to service
   
91.34   Prohibited acts
   
91.35   Containers
   
91.36   Placement, properly containing, and bundling
   
91.37   Special services; hazardous waste
   
91.38   Franchise agreement required
   
91.39   Permit to transport solid waste
   
91.40   Term of permit
   
91.41   Revocation of permit
   
91.42   Commercial recycling nonexclusive permits
   
91.43   Vehicle standards
   
91.44   Franchise fee
   
91.45   Rate schedule
   
91.46   Service charge collection
   
91.47   Deduction of unpaid solid waste collection charges from water/utility
deposit
Disabled Vehicles
   
91.65   Definitions
   
91.66   General requirements
Lake Mary Property Maintenance Code
   
91.70   Intent, definitions, and adoption of International Property Maintenance
Code
   
91.71   Duties and powers of Code Official
   
91.72   Right of entry
   
91.73   Structures to be condemned
   
91.74   Demolition
   
91.75   Property maintenance requirements
   
91.76   Duty of owner
   
91.77   Exceptions
   
91.78   Notice provisions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Any public or private place, building, or
enterprise devoted in whole or in part to a business enterprise whether non-
profit or profit-making in nature. Condominiums, patio houses, and other such
facilities where the individual units are privately owned and used for
residential purposes are not COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS within the context of
this definition, unless bulk collection is used rather than individual
residential unit collection.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works and Appeals of the city.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-10-74)
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleaning, and solid market
and industrial wastes.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any detached single-family residential unit
as defined in the city zoning code, and multiple-family dwelling units of four
or less. Condominiums, patio houses, and other such facilities where the
individual units are privately owned and used for residential purposes are
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNITS unless bulk collection for these facilities is
used rather than individual residential unit collections.
(Ord. 51, passed 10-28-76)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
the purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
which transports persons or property or pulls machinery, and which shall
include, without limitations, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles,
tractors, buggies, and wagons.
(Ord. 14, passed 6-10-74)
§ 91.02 ABANDONED ICEBOXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling, or other structure under his or her control, in a
place accessible to children or others under disability, any abandoned,
unattended, or discharged icebox, refrigerator, or other container which has a
door or lid equipped with a snaplock or other locking device which may not be
released from the inside, without first removing the door, lid, snaplock, or
other locking device from the icebox, refrigerator or container.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74) Penalty, see §
91.99(A)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 91.15 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate and reduce the ambient
sound levels originating within the city in order to preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety and welfare, and the peace and quiet of the
inhabitants of the city, prevent injury to human, plant and animal life and
property, foster the convenience and comfort of its inhabitants, and facilitate
the enjoyment of the natural attractions of the city. It is the public policy
of the city that every person is entitled to ambient sound levels that are not
detrimental to life, health and enjoyment of his or her property. It is hereby
declared that the making, creation or maintenance of excessive or unreasonable
sound within the city affects and is a menace to the public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and the prosperity of the people of the city. The
provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are for the
above-stated purpose.
   (B)   This section shall apply to the control of all sound originating
within the city limits of the City of Lake Mary.
   (C)   This section does not apply to those noises, the control of which is
expressly preempted by federal law including, but not limited to, the Noise
Control Act of 1972, codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 4901 et seq., related to those
noises created by aircraft, railroad carriers and interstate motor carriers, as
defined by federal law. This section also does not apply to those noises, the
control of which is expressly preempted by state law including, but not limited
to, motor vehicle noise under F.S. § 403.415.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
§ 91.15.1 DEFINITIONS.
   All terminology used in this section not defined below shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI).
   “A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL.” The sound pressure level in decibels as measured
on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
   “AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL.” The sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured on
a sound level analyzer using the A-weighting network that represents the
existing noise level of all surrounding sources.
   “ANSI.” The American National Standards Institute.
   “COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.” Those areas zoned and designated for commercial uses
on the city's official zoning map (including, but not limited to, PO, C-1, C-
2), and/or future land use map or areas where commercial uses exist.
   “CONSTRUCTION.” Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration, or similar action, but excluding demolition, for or of
public or private rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
   “DECIBEL (dB).” A unit for measuring the volume of sound, equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to
the reference pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micro-newtons per square
meter).
   “DEMOLITION.” Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces, structures or
similar property.
   “EMERGENCY.” Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
   “EMERGENCY WORK.” Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   “EQUIVALENT A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL (Leq).” The constant sound level that, in
a given situation and time period, conveys the same sound energy as the actual
time-varying A-weighted sound.
   “EXCEPTION.” Any sound emitted for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of any emergency, or the emission of sound in the performance of
emergency work.
   “EXEMPTION.” Any person or persons seeking through the City Commission
relief from the obligations of this section.
   “IMPULSIVE SOUND.” Sound of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound
include, but are not limited to, explosions, drop forge impacts, and the
discharge of firearms.
   “INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.” Those areas zoned and designated for industrial use
on the city's official zoning map (including, but not limited to, M-1A, M-2A)
and/or future land use map or areas where industrial uses exist.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any vehicle which is defined as a "motor vehicle" by F.S.
Ch. 316.
   “MOTORBOAT.” Any vessel which operates on water and which is propelled by a
motor, including, but not limited to, boats, barges, amphibious crafts, water
ski towing devices and hover crafts.
   “MOTORCYCLE.” Any "motorcycle" as defined in F.S. Ch. 316.
   “MUFFLER” or “SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE.” A device for abating the sound of
escaping gases of an internal combustion engine.
   “NOISE.” Any unwanted sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes
or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   “NOISE DISTURBANCE.” Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
      (4)   Is loud, raucous and unseemly.
For purposes of this definition, any sound that exceeds the maximum permissible
sound levels set forth in §
91.18 shall constitute a noise disturbance per se. It is the intent and purpose
of this definition that sounds that either meet the aforesaid criteria or
exceed the sound levels in §
91.18 or both shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   “NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE.” Any area designated by the City Commission for the
purpose of ensuring exceptional quiet in accordance with §
91.16(B)(6), such as, but not limited to, schools, courts, churches, hospitals,
and other convalescent areas, and residential districts from 10:00 p.m. Friday
to 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
   “OCTAVE BAND.” The sound pressure level of a defined frequency band with the
reference pressure being 20 micro-newtons per square meter. As used in this
section, these are defined in Table 1 of this subchapter.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, association, partnership, corporation, entity or
agency including any officer and employee thereof.
   “POWERED MODEL VEHICLE.” Any self- propelled airborne, waterborne, or land
borne plane, vessel, or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
   “PROPERTY LINE.” An imaginary line along the surface of land or water, and
its vertical plane extension, which separates the real property owned, rented
or leased by a person from the real property owned, rented or leased by another
person.
   “PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.” Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
   “PUBLIC SPACE.” Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
   “PURE TONE.” Any sound which can be distinctly heard as a signal pitch or a
set of single pitches. For the purposes of the section, a pure tone shall exist
if the one-third octave band sound pressure level in the band with the tone
exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two
contiguous one-third octave bands by 5 dB for center frequencies of 500 Hz and
above and by 8 dB for center frequencies between 160 and 400 Hz and by 15 dB
for center frequencies less than or equal to 125 Hz.
   “RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.” Those areas zoned and designated for residential
uses on the city's official zoning map (including, but not limited to, R-CE, R-
1AAA, R-1AA, R-1A, R-2, R-3, RM, DC, and PUD residential) and/or future land
use map or areas where residential uses exist.
   “RMS SOUND PRESSURE.” The square root of the time averaged square of the
sound pressure, denoted P rms .
   “SOUND.” An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that
causes compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound may
include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   “SOUND LEVEL.” The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI S1.4 - 1971, or the latest approved revision thereof). If
the frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   “SOUND LEVEL ANALYZER.” An instrument which includes a microphone,
amplifier, RMS detector, integrator or time average, output meter, and
weighting networks used to measure sound pressure levels.
   “SOUND PRESSURE.” The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure
and the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced
by sound energy.
   “SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.” Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the
ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20 micropascals
(20 x 10-6 N/m2). The sound pressure level is denoted Lp or SPL and is
expressed in decibels.
   “SUSTAINED NOISE.” A sound pressure level which remains essentially constant
during the period of observation.
   “WEEKDAY.” Any day Monday through Friday, which is not a legal holiday.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
§ 91.15.2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    Lead agency or official. The noise control program established by
this subchapter shall be administered by the City Police Department and Code
Enforcement Division.
   (B)   Powers of Lake Mary Police Department and Code Enforcement Division.
In order to implement and enforce this section and for the general purpose of
sound and vibration abatement and control, the Police Department and Code
Enforcement Office shall have, in addition to any other authority vested by
state or federal law, the power to:
      (1)   Conduct, or cause to be conducted, research, monitoring, and other
studies related to sound and vibration;
      (2)   Conduct programs of public education and encourage the
participation of the public regarding:
         (a)   The causes, effects and general methods of abatement and control
of noise and vibration;
         (b)   The actions prohibited by this subchapter and the procedures for
reporting violations.
      (3)   Coordinate the noise and vibration control activities of all
municipal departments.
      (4)   Review public and private projects, subject to mandatory review or
approval by the city, for compliance with this subchapter, if such projects are
likely to cause sound or vibration in violation of the subchapter.
      (5)   Conduct inspections, specifically, to:
         (a)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, enter and inspect any
private property or place to determine compliance with this subchapter, when
granted permission by the owner, or by some other person with apparent
authority to act for the owner or pursuant to an inspection warrant;
         (b)   Conduct sound level measurements at defined property lines
located within the city, and issue a notice of violation, civil citation and/or
abatement order to compel compliance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Allow the Police Department to stop any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, or motorboat operated on a public right-of-way, public space, or
public waterway reasonably suspected of violating any provision of this
subchapter, and issue a notice of violation or abatement order which may
require the motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat to be inspected or tested as
the officer may reasonably require to ensure compliance with law.
      (6)   Require the owner or operator of any commercial or industrial
activity to measure the sound level of or the vibration from any source in
accordance with the methods and procedures required by this section and at such
locations and times deemed reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
      (7)   In accordance with division (B)(5), and other provisions of this
subchapter, investigate and pursue possible violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
§ 91.16 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   General--Noise disturbances prohibited. No person shall unreasonably
make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any noise disturbance. Non-
commercial public speaking and public assembly activities conducted on any
public space or public right-of-way shall be exempt from the operation of this
division.
   (B)   Specific--Noise disturbances prohibited. The following acts, and the
causing thereof, are declared to be in violation of this section:
      (1)   Electronic device; musical instruments. Operating, playing or
permitting the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum,
musical instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces,
reproduces, or amplifies sound:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone, except for activities open to the
public and for which a special event exemption has been issued by the city
according to the criteria set forth in §
91.17(B).
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 25 feet
from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-
way or public space, or in a boat on public waters;
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
      (2)   Loudspeakers. Using or operating any loudspeaker, public address
system, or similar device:
         (a)   For any noncommercial purpose between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone;
         (b)   For any commercial purpose:
            1.   Such that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance
across a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone; or
            2.   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day on a public right-of-way or public space.
      (3)   Yelling, shouting. Disturbing or raucous singing, yelling,
shouting, hooting, or whistling on public streets or any place affecting other
citizens at any time so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of
neighboring residents or persons of normal sensitivity within the area for
whatever reason is prohibited. The occurrence of such conduct between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall be prima facie evidence of violation of this
section.
      (4)   Animals; birds. Having control and possession of any animal or bird
which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks, or
makes other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone. (This provision shall not
apply to public zoos and public paw parks).
      (5)   Construction for which a permit is required. Operating or
permitting the operation of any mechanically powered tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, or demolition work for which a permit is required
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day is
prohibited. Sound levels created by construction, drilling, or demolition
activities shall not cause a noise disturbance at or across a real property
boundary, except for bona fide emergency work or by special exemption issued
pursuant to this section;
      (6)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any noise
exceeding the noise level for the noise sensitive zones established by this
section or by resolution of the City Commission, on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church, or court while these are in use, or
adjacent to any hospital or other convalescent area, which interferes with the
working of the institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the
hospital. Residential districts shall be considered noise sensitive zones from
Friday at 10:00 p.m. to Sunday at 10:00 p.m. Conspicuous signs shall be
displayed in these streets indicating that the street is a noise sensitive
zone.
      (7)   Vehicle and boat repairs. Repairing, rebuilding, modifying, or
testing any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorboat in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within
a noise sensitive zone.
      (8)   Places of public entertainment. Operating, playing, or permitting
the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical
instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or
amplifies sound in any place of public entertainment at a sound level greater
than the maximum permissible limit measured at the property line for
commercially zoned areas.
      (9)   Explosives; firearms. Using or firing explosives, firearms, or
similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to cause a noise disturbance
across a real property boundary or on a public space or right-of-way (without
first obtaining a special event exemption pursuant to this section.)
      (10)   Model vehicles. Operating or permitting the operation of powered
model vehicles so as to create a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary, in a public space or within a noise sensitive zone between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (11)   Motorboats. Operating or permitting the operation of any motorboat
in any lake, river, stream, or other waterway in such a manner as to create a
noise disturbance at 50 feet or the nearest shoreline, whichever distance is
less.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06) Penalty, see § 91.99(E)
§ 91.17 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Emergency exception. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply
to the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of any emergency, or the emission of sound in the performance of emergency
work.
   (B)   Lawn maintenance tools exception. The provisions of this subchapter
shall not apply to the emission of sound created by the use of equipment
normally considered to be lawn maintenance equipment, provided that such
equipment does not exceed a maximum decibel level of 110 for one hour period
and such equipment is used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   Special event exemptions.
      (1)   The City Commission shall have the authority, consistent with this
section, to grant special event exemptions.
      (2)   Any person seeking a special event exemption pursuant to this
section shall file an application with the City Commission. The application
shall contain information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound
or activity for which the special event exemption is sought into compliance
with this section would constitute an unreasonable adversity on the applicant,
on the community, or on other persons.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Commission shall balance the desires of the applicant, the community, and other
persons of not granting the special event exemption against the adverse impact
on the health, safety, and welfare of the persons affected, the adverse impact
on property affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the special
event exemption. Applicants for special event exemptions and persons contesting
special event exemptions may be required to submit any information the City
Commission may reasonably require. Upon submission of all required information,
the City Commission shall grant or deny the application within 30 days.
      (4)   Special event exemptions shall be granted by notice to the
applicant containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit on the
permitted activity, and a limit on the noise level. The special event exemption
shall not become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the applicant.
Noncompliance with any condition of the special event exemption shall terminate
it and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this section
regulating the source of sound or activity for which the special event
exemption was granted.
      (5)   Application for extension of time limits specified in special event
exemptions or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like applications for initial special event exemptions.
      (6)   The denial of an application shall be final. An applicant whose
application is denied may immediately appeal as a matter of right to a court of
competent jurisdiction, which court shall promptly review said application.
   (D)   Exemptions for time to comply.
      (1)   The owner of any commercial or industrial source of sound not in
compliance with this subchapter may apply to the City Commission for an
exemption for time to comply with this subchapter. The City Commission shall
have the authority, consistent with this section, to grant the exemption, not
to exceed 180 days from date of the application and approval thereof.
      (2)   Any person seeking an exemption for time to comply shall file an
application with the City Commission. The application shall contain information
which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the
exemption is sought into compliance with this section prior to the date
requested in the application would constitute an unreasonable adversity on the
applicant, on the community, or on other persons.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Commission shall balance the desires of the applicant, the community, and other
interested persons of not granting the exemption for time to comply, against
the adverse impact on health, safety, and welfare of persons affected, the
adverse impact on property affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting
the exemption. Applicants for exemptions for time to comply and persons
contesting exemptions may be required to submit any information the City
Commission may reasonably require.
      (4)   Exemptions for time to comply shall be granted to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions, including a schedule for achieving
compliance. The exemption for time to comply shall not become effective until
all conditions are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition
of the exemption shall terminate the exemption and subject the person holding
it to those provisions of this section for which the exemption was granted.
      (5)   Application for extension of time limits specified in exemptions
for time to comply or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be
treated like applications for initial exemptions under division (D)(2), except
that the City Commission must find that the need for the extension or
modification clearly outweighs any adverse impacts of granting the extension or
modification.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
§ 91.18 SOUND LEVELS BY RECEIVED LAND.
   (A)   Maximum permissible sound levels by receiving land use. No person
shall operate or cause to be operated on private property any source of sound
in such a manner as to create a sound level which exceeds the limits set forth
for the receiving land use category in Table 2 when measured at or within the
property boundary of the receiving land use. These maximum permissible sound
levels are Leq: dB(A) values measured in accordance with the guidance provided
in this section.
Table 1. Octave Bands Defined
Frequency Range Geometric Mean (or Center Frequency) of Octave Band
Table 1. Octave Bands Defined
Frequency Range Geometric Mean (or Center Frequency) of Octave Band
22-44           31.5
44-88           63
88-177          125
177-355         250
355-710         500
710-1420        1000
1420-2840       2000
2840-5680       4000
5680-11360      8000
 
Table 2. Sound Levels by Receiving Land Use
Land Use Category Time Maximum Permissible Sound Level
                       Leq : dB(A)
Table 2. Sound Levels by Receiving Land Use
                                                 Maximum Permissible Sound
Land Use Category         Time                   Level
                                                 Leq : dB(A)
A (noise sensitive zones) At all times           55
**B (residential)         10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 55
                          7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 60
C (Commercial)            10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 60
                          7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 65
D (Industrial)            At all times           65
 
**From Friday 10:00 p.m. to Sunday 10:00 p.m. Residential Districts will be
considered Noise Sensitive Zones. The maximum decibel level allowed is 55 at
all times.
   (B)   Correction for character of sound. For any source of sound which emits
a pure tone or impulsive sound, the maximum sound level limits set forth in §
91.18(A) shall be reduced by 3 dB(A). In addition, octave band frequency limits
in dB as established in Table 3 (daytime) and Table 4 (nighttime) shall not be
exceeded.
Table 3. Maximum Permissible Limits By Octave Band if Pure Tones Exist
(Daytime)
Octave Band Center A Noise Sensitive Zones B             C          D
Frequency                                  **Residential Commercial Industrial
Table 3. Maximum Permissible Limits By Octave Band if Pure Tones Exist
(Daytime)
Octave Band Center A Noise Sensitive Zones B             C          D
Frequency                                  **Residential Commercial Industrial
31.5               72                      75            80         80
63                 71                      74            78         78
123                65                      67            73         73
250                57                      63            67         67
500                51                      56            61         61
1000               45                      51            56         56
2000               39                      47            52         52
4000               34                      45            48         48
8000               32                      40            45         45
 
**Residential Districts shall be Noise Sensitive Zones from 10:00 p.m. Friday
to 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
Table 4. Maximum Permissible Limits by Octave Band if Pure Tones Exist
(Nighttime)
Octave Band Center A Noise Sensitive Zones B             C          D
Frequency                                  **Residential Commercial Industrial
Table 4. Maximum Permissible Limits by Octave Band if Pure Tones Exist
(Nighttime)
Octave Band Center A Noise Sensitive Zones B             C          D
Frequency                                  **Residential Commercial Industrial
31.5               72                      72            75         80
63                 71                      71            74         78
123                65                      65            67         73
250                57                      57            63         67
500                51                      51            56         61
1000               45                      45            51         56
2000               39                      39            47         52
4000               34                      34            45         48
8000               32                      32            40         45
 
**Residential Districts shall be Noise Sensitive Zones from 10:00 p.m. Friday
to 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06) Penalty, see §
91.99(E)
§ 91.19 MEASUREMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Standardized measurements required. Measurements shall conform to
standardized practices and must be completely delineated in any submitted noise
report. Measurements should be taken so as to present an accurate
representation of the sound.
   (B)   Required measurement procedures. The following conditions must always
be met when applicable testing is underway:
      (1)   The measurement of sound shall be made with a sound level analyzer
and shall conform to ANSI 1.4-1983. Either Type 1 or Type 2 sound analyzers are
permitted per ANSI S1.4-1971. If octave band testing is required, octave band
or one-third octave band analyzers filter sets shall conform to ANSI 1.11-1976.
      (2)   Calibration of all instruments, components, and attachments shall
conform to the latest ANSI Standards.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
§ 91.19.1 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter
shall be subject to penalties as described in §
91.99(E).
   (B)   Notice of violation. Except where a person is acting in good faith to
comply with an abatement order issued pursuant to this section, violation of
any provision of this section shall be cause for a notice of violation to be
issued by a Lake Mary police officer or Lake Mary code enforcement officer
according to code enforcement procedures set forth in the City Code.
   (C)   Immediate threat to health and welfare.
      (1)   The police officer or code enforcement officer shall order an
immediate halt to any sound which exposes any person, except those excluded
under this subchapter, to continuous sound levels in excess of those shown in
Table 2. If impulsive sounds or pure tones exists, values in Table 2 should be
reduced by 3 dB(A). In the case of pure tones, Tables 3 and 4 shall also apply.
      (2)   Any person subject to an order issued pursuant to division (C)(1)
shall comply with such order until:
         (a)   The sound is brought into compliance with the order, as
determined by the police officer or code enforcement officer; or
         (b)   A judicial or Code Enforcement Board order has superseded the
police officer or code enforcement officer's order.
         (c)   Any person who violates an order issued pursuant to this section
shall, for each day of violation, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$250.
   (D)   Other remedies. No provision of this section shall be construed to
impair any common law or statutory cause of action, or legal remedy therefrom,
of any person or the city for injury or damage arising from any violation of
this section or from other law.
   (E)   Designation of noise sensitive zones. In addition to areas designated
as noise sensitive zones by this section, by application of interested persons
or on the city's own initiative, the City Commission may designate an area
within the city as a noise sensitive zone by resolution. The zone must meet the
criteria of §
91.16(B)(6).
   (F)   Motor vehicle noise. Motor vehicle noise on highways of the state and
on streets and roads under the city's jurisdiction shall be regulated pursuant
to F.S. § 316.293.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 91.30 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the city to require all persons within the
corporate boundaries of the city to have their solid waste and recycling
collected and disposed of in a proper, sanitary, and efficient manner; to make
available to all persons a sanitary and efficient means of having their solid
waste collected and disposed of; to eliminate illegal dumping; to provide an
effective method of paying the cost for the services rendered; and to promote
the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   It is further the intent of the city that the collection and hauling
of solid waste is to be performed only by those authorized by the city in the
form of a franchise agreement of permit and that disposal shall be done only at
a Seminole County-approved solid waste facility.
   (C)   In the event of a major disaster or emergency declared by the state,
the city will have the legal responsibility to remove debris from public or
private property when it is determined to be in the best interest of the
public. Public interest is defined as being necessary to:
      (1)   Eliminate immediate threats to life, public health, and safety; or
      (2)   Eliminate immediate threats of significant damage to improved
public or private property; or
      (3)   Ensure economic recovery of the affected community to the benefit
of the community-at-large.
   (D)   The city also intends that if this subchapter is in conflict with the
franchise agreement, the franchise agreement will prevail.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15)
§ 91.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BULK WASTE.” Solid waste that consists of household refuse such as
appliances, other white goods, furniture, or other items too large to be
collected as part of regularly scheduled solid waste collections.
   “CITY CLERK.” The City Clerk of the City of Lake Mary.
   “CITY MANAGER.” The City Manager of the City of Lake Mary.
   “COLLECTION SERVICES.” The provision of utility service to remove solid
waste, recyclables, yard trash, construction debris and bulk waste, as
specified in Code and by the franchise agreement, for transport to a licensed
and certified facility for processing or disposal as designated by the
franchise agreement.
   “COMMERCIAL RECYCLING NON- EXCLUSIVE PERMIT.” A permit issued for the
removal of commercial recycling materials as provided in §
91.42 .
   “COMMISSION.” The City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   “CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS (C&D).” Discarded materials generally
considered to be not water-soluble and nonhazardous in nature, including, but
not limited to, steel, glass, brick, concrete, asphalt roofing material, pipe,
gypsum wallboard, and lumber, from the construction or destruction of a
structure as part of a construction or demolition project or from the
renovation of a structure, and includes rocks, soils, tree remains, trees, and
other vegetative matter that normally results from land clearing or land
development operations for a construction project, including such debris from
construction of structures at a site remote from the construction or demolition
project site.
   “CONTAINER.” Garbage or recycling cart, dumpster, compactor, roll-off
container, or any container approved by the city intended for collection of
solid waste, recyclables, yard trash, or other materials as specified by the
franchise agreement. “CONTAINERS” must be watertight and designed or intended
to be used for automated or semi-automated collection.
   “CUSTOMER, COMMERCIAL OR RESIDENTIAL.” The owner, occupant, tenant, or other
person having control of the improved real property. Schools, apartments,
condominium apartments, and mobile home parks receiving commercial-type
collection shall be considered commercial.
   “FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.” The contractual agreement between the city and the
authorized collector containing, but not limited to, a description of the
service area; name of the person to perform commercial and residential
collection services in the service area; the term of the agreement; the
consideration to be paid for such agreement, if any, and the method of payment;
the service to be furnished; performance bond and the conditions thereof;
insurance provisions; responsibilities and obligations of the parties thereto;
and such reasonable rules and regulations governing performance as are deemed
necessary to implement the provisions of this subchapter.
   “FRANCHISE COLLECTOR.” The company which has executed a franchise agreement
with the city and which is required to perform collection services under the
provisions of the franchise agreement.
   “FRANCHISE FEE (SERVICE RATES).” The amount of money the franchise collector
shall be obligated to pay the city for a franchise agreement as defined in this
Code and the franchise agreement. Also, the difference between the amount
charged by the franchise collector and billed to the customer of the city.
   “GARBAGE.” Every refuse accumulation of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter
that attends the preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage of
edibles, and any other matter of any nature whatsoever, which is subject to
decay, putrefaction, and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors,
or which, during or after decay, may serve as breeding or feeding material for
flies or other germ-carrying insects, or any container of the material defined
herein, but excludes animal carcasses.
   “HAZARDOUS WASTE.” Solid waste, or a combination of solid wastes, which,
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics, may cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness or may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly transported, disposed of, stored, treated,
or otherwise managed. The term does not include human remains that are disposed
of by persons licensed under F.S. Ch. 497.
   “IMPROVED REAL PROPERTY.” All residential, commercial, or other property
that generates, or is capable of generating, solid waste.
   “INDUSTRIAL WASTES.” The waste products of canneries, fisheries,
slaughterhouses, or packing plants, condemned food products, agricultural waste
products, waste and debris from brick, concrete block, roofing shingles, or
tile plates, debris and wastes accumulated from land clearing, excavating,
building, rebuilding, and the altering of buildings, structures, roads,
streets, sidewalks, or parkways, and other solid waste products generated from
industrial processing or manufacturing.
   “JUNK.” Any tangible item such as furniture, appliances, bicycles, or
smaller property not having a useful purpose to the owner or abandoned by the
owner and not included within the definitions of garbage, yard trash,
industrial wastes, or rubbish.
   “OWNER.” The person designated on the real property tax roll maintained by
the property appraiser for each parcel of improved real property.
   “RECYCLABLE MATERIALS (RECYCLABLES).” Those materials that are capable of
being recycled and that would otherwise be processed or disposed of as solid
waste.
   “RESIDENCE” or “RESIDENTIAL.” Single-family dwellings, duplexes and
triplexes, mobile homes, and all other living units not coming within the
definitions set out herein, where each such structure is located on a separate
lot or parcel of land. Each living unit shall be deemed a separate “RESIDENCE.”
   “RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICE.” The provision of collection services to
residential improved real property.
   “SERVICE CHARGE.” The monthly fee or payment due the city by the customer
for the provision of collection services to commercial or residential
customers.
   “SOLID WASTE.” Garbage, rubbish, refuse, special waste, or other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material
resulting from domestic, industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural, or
governmental operations. Recyclable materials and hazardous waste are not
“SOLID WASTE.” For the purposes of this agreement, sludge unregulated under the
federal Clean Water Act or Clean Air Act, sludge from a waste treatment works,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility are not
included.
   “SOURCE SEPARATED.” Recyclable materials that are separated from solid waste
at the location where the recyclable materials and solid waste are generated.
   “SPECIAL SERVICE.” Any collection or disposal service for which a special
charge is applied. “SPECIAL SERVICES” include, but are not limited to, on-call
services for residential yard trash or bulk waste not meeting specifications as
required by the franchise agreement.
   “YARD TRASH.” Vegetative matter resulting from landscaping maintenance and
land clearing operations and includes associated rocks and soils.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 459, passed 9-7-89; Am. Ord. 1312, passed
2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 2-21-19)
§ 91.32 MANDATORY PICK-UP.
   It shall be mandatory for all residences, commercial establishments, and
owners or developers of demolition sites in the city to utilize the services of
the franchise collector for solid waste removal services, including all C&D
that is not being recycled. All residences and commercial establishments within
the city shall be billed by the city’s Finance Department for solid waste
removal at the rates established. Any person believing that its living unit
within the city is not a residence and is therefore not subject to mandatory
residential solid waste removal may appeal to the City Commission for a
determination. In addition to any other remedies afforded by law or set forth
herein the city may record a lien against each unit of residential property for
unpaid solid waste service fees from the date such fees become due until paid
and/or terminate water/sewer service in a like manner as prescribed in § 91.46,
and as provided by rules and regulations governing the collection of utility
fees in
Chapter 53.
(Ord. 459, passed 9-7-89; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09 ; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15; Am. Ord. 1568, passed 6-15-17; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 2-21-19)
§ 91.33 ENTITLEMENT TO SERVICE.
   Upon request for service to the city, and, if required, payment of the
deposit and in consideration thereof, the owner, occupant, or tenant of the
premises shall be entitled to the collection services upon the terms,
conditions, and regulations specified herein.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
   (A)   To place, or cause to be placed, without permission, any solid waste
upon the property of another.
   (B)   To convey or cause to be conveyed over and upon any of the streets and
alleys of the city any solid waste without a franchise or license, or both such
franchise and license, as may be required by the regulations affecting the
collection and disposal of solid wastes.
   (C)   To deposit or dispose of any solid waste in or upon any public
property to include streets, sidewalk, right-of-way or alleyway, or any stream,
ditch, river, pond, creek, park, or public place in the city.
   (D)   To burn any solid waste generated or brought within the city, except
certain trees and brush allowed to be burned where all applicable permits have
been obtained.
   (E)   To place solid waste out for collection earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the
day prior to a scheduled collection or to leave containers adjacent to the
street any later than 8:00 p.m. on the day the containers are emptied.
   (F)   To place solid waste out for collection in any location not serviced
by the franchise collector.
   (G)   To do any act prohibited or to fail to do any act required by the
regulations affecting solid waste within the city.
   (H)   To remove solid waste or recyclable materials from any refuse bin,
container, from a collection location, or from curbside.
   (I)   To accumulate or cause to be accumulated any garden trash yard trash,
industrial waste, junk, rubbish, or other solid waste in or upon any premises
or lot owned by him or her or in his or her control.
   (J)   To maliciously damage, destruction or remove containers from a
property is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Franchise collector shall provide containers to properties as
described by the franchise agreement. The property owner or occupant shall
obtain the proper container(s) from the franchise collector and keep said
containers on the property for the collection and separation of solid waste.
The property owner or occupant shall maintain the containers and the area where
they are located on the property in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   No service shall be provided to any residential or commercial improved
real property which contains objects, obstructions, or vehicles which in any
way hinder the servicing of the container by the franchise collector’s vehicles
and personnel.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 2-21-19)
§ 91.36 PLACEMENT, PROPERLY CONTAINING, AND BUNDLING.
   (A)   All residential containers shall be set out for collection in an
unobstructed, convenient, and accessible location in the front of the residence
adjacent to the travelled way serviced by the franchise collector or such other
place as may be designated by the city for removal. No such containers shall be
placed in any street or upon any sidewalk.
   (B)   Residential containers may be placed out for collection after 6:00
p.m. on the day prior to a scheduled collection and shall be removed not later
than 8:00 p.m. on the day the containers are emptied.
   (C)   All logs, tree limbs, brush, palm fronds, and other yard trash shall
not exceed six inches in diameter and shall be cut in four-foot lengths or less
and placed in containers or tightly bundled for collection. Each container or
bundle shall not exceed 50 pounds in weight. Any yard trash which by reason of
its bulk, weight, or shape cannot be bundled as required herein, shall be
collected as special services.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 2-21-19) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 SPECIAL SERVICES; HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   The rates for special services shall be established by the city by
resolution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place out for collection any hazardous waste
as defined herein.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   No business or company shall collect solid waste, except as provided herein,
in the city without having obtained a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 PERMIT TO TRANSPORT SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Certain persons who own businesses for which the transportation of
certain construction, industrial and organic waste is an integral part of the
performance of that occupation may obtain a permit to transport these wastes.
Examples of such occupations are roofing, demolition and land clearing
contractors or grocery stores and restaurants.
   (B)   No person shall collect solid waste from any property used as a
residence, including any person that in the course of business rents, leases,
or sells individual apartments, condominium apartments, or mobile homes.
   (C)   Each such person shall make application for a permit to the Building
Department. The application shall be made on forms provided by the city and
shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Name and address of person;
      (2)   Description of occupation;
      (3)   Description of the solid waste the occupation produces;
      (4)   Description of equipment to be utilized; and
      (5)   Agreement to comply with all conditions of license and provisions
of this subchapter.
   (D)   A permit fee established by resolution and codified in
Chapter 163 of this Code of Ordinances shall accompany each application.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1414, passed
3-3-11; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 TERM OF PERMIT.
   The length of term for a permit to transport solid waste shall not exceed
one year. The city, upon issuance of a permit, may restrict the permit to a
specific time period not exceeding one year.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city may revoke a permit at any time if the person holding such permit
is in violation of the provisions of this subchapter or the conditions of the
permit.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15)
§ 91.42 COMMERCIAL RECYCLING NONEXCLUSIVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit Required. No person may collect or transport commercial source
separated recyclable materials or construction and demolition debris intended
for recycling within the city without first obtaining a nonexclusive permit
from the City Clerk. C&D debris for recycling must be source separated onsite
and contain less than 10 percent solid waste by volume. This provision applies
to all persons except facilities within the city owned or operated by a
governmental subdivision or entity of the state, the school district or a
special taxing district.
   (B)   Application. An application form provided by the city is required and
shall provide, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Name and address of business;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of business;
      (3)   Corporate officers and directors and certificate of good standing;
      (4)   Permanent place of business;
      (5)   Copy of local business tax receipt;
       (6)   Evidence of certification from the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection;
      (7)   Certification that all recovered materials or C&D collected will be
recycled at a state-certified facility;
      (8)   Description of equipment to be utilized;
      (9)   Copy of certificate of insurance; and
      (10)   Agreement to comply with all conditions of permit and provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Terms. The permit term shall be for one year or a partial year
beginning on October 1 of each year. Permits shall expire on September 30 of
each year, but may be renewed from year to year upon application, payment of
permit fees and a demonstration that the permittee is in compliance with the
terms of this subchapter.
   (D)   Fees. A holder of a nonexclusive permit shall pay the permit fee of
$250 for each year or fraction thereof, which fee shall be paid on or before
October 1, for each year of renewal. The City Commission may modify the permit
fee by adoption of a resolution.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   Each permittee shall, prior to the commencement of service, furnish
the city with a certificate or certificates of insurance naming the city as
additional insured as may be required by the city upon the advice of its
insurance carrier and statutory minimum requirements to include a minimum of
$500,000 in liability.
      (2)   Throughout the duration of the permit term, the permittee shall
supply the city with a renewal or replacement certificate of insurance not less
than 30 days before expiration or replacement of the insurance for which a
previous certificate has been provided.
   (F)   Equipment. All equipment operated by the permittee shall be in good
repair, appearance and in a sanitary condition at all times. All materials
hauled by the permittee shall be so contained that spilling of any nature is
prevented. Failure to comply will result in a code enforcement action as
provided in §
37.08 of this code.
   (G)   Charges. Fees to be charged to those utilizing the services of the
permittee are strictly a matter of negotiation between the permittee and the
user, and will not be controlled or established by the city.
   (H)   Notice of intention to offer service; report of service. Each
permittee shall advise the city, in writing, of each location and business at
which the permittee intends to collect materials in advance of the commencement
of collection. Each permittee shall submit to the city, on or before the
twentieth day of the month following the month of service, a report indicating,
at a minimum, the business names, addresses, telephone numbers, types, sizes,
quantities and frequencies of containers being serviced by the permittee.
   (I)   Violation. This section shall be enforced in accordance with the code
enforcement procedure in
Chapter 30 of this code. Should a permittee fail to comply with the
requirements of its permit, the provisions of the code, or state law, the city
may commence a code enforcement action against the permittee. Enforcement of
this section shall include the code enforcement board’s right to temporarily or
permanently revoke the permit for repeated violations.
(Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15; Am. Ord. 1607, passed
2-21-19)
§ 91.43 VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   All trucks, trailers, and other vehicles operated by the franchise collector
or other approved haulers to collect and transport solid waste in the city or
to transport solid waste over any public roadways in the city during both
normal or emergency operations shall:
   (A)   Be constructed as watertight as possible to limit the escape of water
or other fluids from the vehicle.
   (B)   Be fully enclosed or covered so as to prevent the escape of any solid
waste.
   (C)   Comply with all local, state, and federal roadway weight limits.
   (D)   Comply with all local, state, and federal rules and regulations
applicable to such vehicles.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 FRANCHISE FEE.
   The franchise collector shall pay to the city a franchise fee approved by
the City Commission. The amount of the franchise fee, and the terms and
conditions of payment, shall be established at the time of the award of the
franchise agreement and as modified from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 459, passed 9-7-89; Am. Ord. 677, passed
12-2-93; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15)
§ 91.45 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Commission, by resolution, may establish and change, from
time to time, a rate schedule to include deposits.
The rate schedule shall represent all service charges and fees which are to be
charged for providing residential and commercial collection service as provided
for herein. Such rate schedule shall include:
      (1)   Monthly residential collection service charges for providing
residential collection service.
      (2)   Commercial collection service charge size of container, and
frequency of pickup.
      (3)   Special service collection rate per cubic yard.
      (4)   Franchise fee, including amount and conditions of payment.
      (5)   Schedule of license, deposits, and other fees, as applicable.
   (B)   Such rates and fees in the rate schedule shall be established in
accordance with any applicable provisions of the franchise agreement.
   (C)   These shall be no free services rendered for the collection,
transportation, or disposal of solid waste, except as otherwise agreed between
the city and the franchise collector.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85; Am. Ord. 459, passed 9-7-89; Am. Ord. 1312, passed
2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15; Am. Res. 960, passed 2-26-15)
§ 91.46 SERVICE CHARGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The service charge shall be billed for lots or parcels of developed
property being charged a monthly stormwater fee or utilizing city utilities,
and billed and collected separately for those lots or parcels of property and
owners thereof not utilizing other city utilities. All such service charges are
billed monthly by the city’s Finance Department on a consolidated statement
that may include, but is not limited to, wastewater, water, solid waste and
stormwater services. Utility services shall be separately listed. Bills shall
become due and payable in accordance with the rules and regulations established
in this chapter and the rules pertaining to the collection of wastewater and
water system utility fees, set forth in
Chapter 53 of the city’s Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Any charge due hereunder which shall not be paid when due shall bear
all approved monthly service charges as permitted by law or by ordinance of the
city and may be recovered in an action at law by the city. The delinquent
account shall be responsible for all costs of collection to include reasonable
attorney’s fees whether or not suit is necessary. In addition to any other
remedies or penalties provided by this or any other ordinance of the city,
failure to pay said charges promptly when due shall result in discontinuance of
any or all collection services or utility services, as set forth in Chapter 53
of the Code, and the City Manager of the city is hereby empowered and directed
to enforce this provision as to any and all delinquent accounts.
   (C)   In the case that a tenant in possession of any premises or building
shall pay said service charges, it shall relieve the land owner from such
obligation; but the city shall not be required to look to any person whatsoever
other than the owner for the payment of such charges.
   (D)   The service charge hereinabove prescribed shall constitute a debt to
the city for which the owner, tenant and/or occupant shall be jointly and
severally liable. The records of the city shall be kept open for the inspection
by the owner, tenant, or occupant and it shall be the responsibility of an
owner, tenant or occupant to ascertain that the prescribed fee or fees are
being paid.
(Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed 2-26-15)
§ 91.47 DEDUCTION OF UNPAID SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CHARGES FROM WATER/UTILITY
DEPOSIT.
   In addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies, any unpaid charges
for residential solid waste collection may be deducted from any water/utility
deposit for the residence for which the unpaid solid waste collection charges
have accrued at such time as any refund of said deposit is requested. In
addition, unpaid solid waste collection charges may be deducted from any water/
utility deposit for the resident for which the unpaid solid waste collection
charges have accrued at such time as the accrued charges are equal to or exceed
the amount of the deposit.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-3-90; Am. Ord. 1312, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 1523, passed
2-26-15)
DISABLED VEHICLES
§ 91.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “DISABLED VEHICLE.” Any vehicle which is physically or mechanically
incapable of being operated, or incapable of being operated as intended by its
manufacturer, including but not limited to any partially dismantled, non-
operating, wrecked, dismantled, discarded vehicle, or any other physical state
rendering the vehicle non- operational.
   “VEHICLE.” Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public roadway, except devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 368, passed 5-5-88; Am. Ord. 1272, passed 12-20-07)
§ 91.66 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person in charge of or in control of any property within the city,
whether an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any
disabled vehicle to be placed on or to remain on such property longer than
three days unless such vehicle is within a completely enclosed building or on
the premises of any automotive repair or storage business for which the owner
of the business has a current city local business tax receipt and zoning
approval.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. A vehicle will be considered disabled because it
is physically or mechanically incapable of being operated on the public streets
if it is wrecked, partially dismantled, has no engine, has no transmission, has
a dismantled engine or transmission, has no valid current license tag, or is in
some comparable physical state rendering it inoperable. The absence of a
current license tag alone shall not cause a vehicle to be considered physically
or mechanically incapable of being operated on the public streets but does
provide reasonable cause for further investigation.
   (B)   Interpretation of this requirement. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as permitting the disassembling, tearing down, or scrapping of a
vehicle or vehicles, or to permit one vehicle or vehicles to be scavenged or
stripped for parts for use on another vehicle.
   (C)   Responsibility for compliance. The owner, agent, or tenant of the
property on which the violation occurs shall be jointly and individually
responsible for compliance with this section.
(Ord. 368, passed 5-5-88; Am. Ord. 1272, passed 12-20-07)
LAKE MARY PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 91.70 INTENT, DEFINITIONS, AND ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CODE.
   (A)   These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of
the City of Lake Mary, hereafter referred to as "this code." This code shall be
construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to ensure public health,
safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy and
maintenance of structures and premises.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      "ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY." Any improved property that is vacant and
violates the provisions of this subchapter including, but not limited to,
property under a current notice of default and/or notice of mortgagee's sale by
the lender or a pending tax assessor's lien sale and/or properties that have
been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was retained by the
beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure or sale.
      "ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY." A property that is accessible through a
compromised/breached gate, fence, wall, and the like.
      "ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE." A structure/building that is unsecured and/or
breached in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by unauthorized
persons.
      "CODE OFFICIAL." Any enforcement officer, including the Code Enforcement
Officer, the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal, the Building
Official, or their designee within their respective areas of responsibilities
or other person employed by the City of Lake Mary and designated by the City
Manager.
      "EVIDENCE OF VACANCY." Any condition that on its own, or combined with
other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the
property is vacant. Such conditions may include, but not be limited to,
overgrown and/or dead vegetation, accumulation of abandoned real personal
property, statements by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government
agents, among other evidence that the property is vacant.
      "FORECLOSURE." The process by which a property, placed as security for a
real estate loan, is sold at public sale to satisfy the debt if the borrower
defaults.
      "OCCUPIED." To dwell or reside within.
      "PRIVATE PROPERTY." All lands and improvements other than public lands
and improvements.
      "PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY." A local property manager, property
maintenance company or similar entity responsible for the maintenance of real
property.
      "PUBLIC NUISANCE." Any circumstance where a structure is found to be
unsafe, unfit for human occupancy or dangerous to the public health, safety and
welfare of the community.
      "PUBLIC PROPERTY." Canals, all waterways, lands and improvements owned by
a governmental body or any governmental agency including but not limited to,
easements and rights-of-way, but excluding the campus of any institution of the
state university system.
      "RESIDENTIAL BUILDING." Any improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city, designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes,
including the buildings and structures located on such improved real property.
      "VACANT." Any building/structure that is not legally occupied.
   (C)   The City of Lake Mary adopts the International Property Maintenance
Code, published by the International Code Council, as may be amended from time
to time, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
buildings and structures within the city, and that Code is made a part of this
chapter by reference as fully and completely as if set forth herein. A copy of
said Code is available online.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-9-88; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09; Am. Ord. 1409, passed
12-16-10; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 9-6-12; Am. Ord. 1494, passed 9-19-13; Am. Ord.
1659, passed 2-17-22)
§ 91.71 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   The Code Official shall make all of the required inspections, or shall
accept reports of inspections by approved agencies or individuals. All reports
of such inspections shall be in writing and be certified by a responsible
officer of such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The Code
Official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to
report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the
City Manager.
(Ord. 1409, passed 12-16-10)
§ 91.72 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In accordance with the requirements of applicable federal and state law, the
Code Official or his or her designee, upon presentation of proper
identification to the owner, agent, or tenant in charge of such property, may
enter any structure regulated by this code, during all reasonable hours, to
enforce this code, except in cases of emergency where extreme hazards are known
to exist which may involve the potential loss of life or severe property
damage, in which case the above limitations shall not apply.
(Ord. 1409, passed 12-16-10)
§ 91.73 STRUCTURES TO BE CONDEMNED.
   The Building Official shall administer and enforce the unsafe building or
structure provisions of this section.
   (A)   When a structure is found by the Building Official to be unsafe, unfit
for human occupancy, or unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to
the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      “STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.” A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Building Official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful, or because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rodent infested or contains filth
and contamination.
      “UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE.” An unlawful structure is one found to be, in whole
or in part, erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
      “UNSAFE STRUCTURES.” An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure that is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that
partial or complete collapse is possible.
(Ord. 1409, passed 12-16-10; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 9-6-12)
§ 91.74 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   The Building Official shall condemn any premises upon which is located
any structure, which in the Building Official’s judgment, in consultation with
professional staff, is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair to be
dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, such that it is a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the
occupants of such structure, the public, or adjacent premises or structures.
   (B)   If it is unreasonable to repair the structure, the Building Official
must order the owner to obtain appropriate permits and demolish and remove such
structure; or if the structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, the
Building Official must order the owner to obtain any required permits to repair
and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove the structure, at the
owner’s option. Where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, the Building Official must order
the owner to demolish and remove such structure.
   (C)   Condemnation notice. Whenever the Building Official condemns a
structure, a condemnation notice must be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by such notice and must be served, in the manner
provided by this code for service of a code enforcement citation, on the owner
and all other persons responsible for the structure and all occupants and other
persons with any interest in the premises, including all mortgagees.
   (D)   Contents of notice. The condemnation notice must be in writing and
include the following:
      (1)   Description of the real property sufficient for identification.
      (2)   Brief factual description of the nature of the defect or defects
and why the notice is being issued.
      (3)   An order to vacate and secure the dwelling unit, structure or
premises when deemed necessary and appropriate by the Building Official under
the existing conditions and circumstances.
      (4)   Notice to repair or demolish the condemned structure, allowing a
reasonable time to make the repairs, corrections and improvements required to
bring the dwelling unit or structure into compliance with the provisions of
this code and the applicable provisions of all other codes, regulations, and
laws.
      (5)   Notice that if the defects are not corrected pursuant to the order
or a hearing is not requested within the time allowed, the city may cause
correction of the defects and charge the reasonable costs and expenses incurred
by the city for such corrections against the property, to include and not be
limited to, a property lien until paid.
      (6)   Date of issuance.
      (7)   Name of the Building Official issuing the notice and order.
      (8)   Instructions and due date for filing an appeal of the notice and
correction order.
      (9)   Notice that the costs of the administrative hearing may be assessed
against the appellant if the notice and determination of the Building Official
are upheld after the hearing.
      (10)   Notice that failure to file an appeal within 20 days after service
of the order, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, shall
constitute a waiver of the right to an appeal of the determination of the
Building Official.
   (E)   Placarding. In addition to posting and serving the condemnation
notice, the Building Official shall cause the posting of a placard of
condemnation at each entrance to the condemned structure. The placard shall
read substantially as follows or in words of similar effect, to the extent
applicable:
      “CONDEMNED
      This Structure Is Unsafe And Unfit For Human Habitation And Must Be
Vacated And Secured By: [DATE].
      Occupancy Of This Structure After Such Date Is Unlawful.
      The Unlawful Occupation Of This Structure And/Or The Removal,
Obstruction, Or Defacement Of This Placard Is Punishable By A Fine Of Up To
$500 And/Or 60 Days Imprisonment.”
   (F)   Means of appeal. Any person directly affected by the condemnation
notice and order shall have the right to appeal to the Code Enforcement Board,
provided that a written application for appeal is filed within 20 days of the
time the order was served. At least ten days before the hearing, the City Clerk
shall send a notice of hearing to the person requesting the hearing. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that this code has been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. Appeal of
the Code Enforcement Board decision shall be to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Building Official shall cause
the structure to be demolished and removed, and the cost of such demolition and
removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall be a lien upon such real estate until paid.
(Ord. 1409, passed 12-16-10; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 9-6-12; Am. Ord. 1494,
passed 9-19-13)
§ 91.75 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is the purpose and intent of the city to establish a process to
address the minimum standards for maintenance of real property located within
the city. It is the city's further intent to specifically establish guidelines
to protect residential neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of
adequate maintenance.
   (B)   Applicability. This subchapter shall be considered cumulative and not
superseding or subject to any other law or provision for same, but shall rather
be an additional remedy available to the city above and beyond any other state,
county and/or local provisions for same.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate the provisions of this
subchapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
91.99.
   (D)   General maintenance requirements.
      (1)   The existence of excessive accumulation or untended growth of
weeds, undergrowth, or other dead or living plant life or stagnant water,
rubbish, debris, or trash, including but not limited to, household furnishing
and all other objectionable, unsightly, or unsanitary matter upon any lot,
tract, or parcel of land within this city, be it uncovered or under open
shelter, to the extent and manner that such lot, tract, or parcel of land is or
may reasonably become infested or inhabited by rodents, vermin, or wild
animals, or may furnish a breeding place for mosquitoes, or threatens or
endangers the public health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise adversely affects
and impairs the general health, safety, or welfare of the general public or
creates, extends, or aggravates urban blight is hereby prohibited and declared
to be a public nuisance and unlawful, unless neatly arranged for removal.
      (2)   Properties shall be kept free of weeds, overgrown brush, dead
vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, or any accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by federal,
state, or local law, discarded personal items including, but not limited to,
furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material or any other
items, that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
      (3)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
      (4)   Consistent with the provisions of the Florida Building Code,
swimming pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris, and in good repair. Private swimming pools, hot tubs
and spas containing water more than 24 inches in depth shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or barrier at least 48 inches in height above the
finished ground level, measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool.
Gates and doors in such barrier shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where
the self-latching device is less than 54 inches above the bottom of the gate,
the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-
closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will
positively close and latch when released from an open position of six inches
from the gatepost.
      (5)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to
properly maintain the property shall result in a violation of the City Code and
issuance of a citation or notice of violation/notice of hearing by the Code
Enforcement Officer. Pursuant to a finding and determination by the Code
Enforcement Board, the city may take the necessary action to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (E)   Public nuisance. All property within the City of Lake Mary determined
to be in violation of the property maintenance requirements, as defined by this
subchapter, may be declared a public nuisance, the abatement of which pursuant
to the police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health, welfare
and safety of the residents of the city.
   (F)   Abandoned real property.
      (1)   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within
the city, which violates the provisions of this subchapter, and is abandoned or
vacant or unoccupied and not maintained, shall perform an inspection of the
property that is the security for the mortgage, upon default by the mortgagor,
prior to the mortgagee's issuance of a notice of default. If the property is
found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, it shall be deemed abandoned,
and the mortgagee shall, within ten days of the inspection, register the
property with the City Clerk, or his or her designee, on forms provided by the
city. A registration is required for each vacant property found to be in
violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   If the property is occupied but remains in default, it shall be
inspected by the mortgagee or his or her designee monthly until (1) the
mortgagor or other party remedies the default, or (2) it is found to be vacant
or shows evidence of vacancy at which time it is deemed abandoned, and the
mortgagee shall, within ten days of that inspection, register the property with
the City Clerk, or his or her designee, on forms provided by the city.
      (3)   Registration pursuant to this section shall contain the name of the
mortgagee, the direct mailing address of the mortgagee, a direct contact name
and telephone number of the mortgagee, facsimile number, and e-mail address
and, in the case of a corporation or out-of-area mortgagee, the local property
management company responsible for the security and maintenance of the
property.
      (4)   An annual registration fee in the amount of $100 per property shall
accompany the registration form(s). This fee is to cover administrative and
inspection costs incurred by the city to ensure properties are properly
maintained and secured for the safety of the public. The city will notify
mortgage holders or their management
      (5)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the
subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the
beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the foreclosure, and to any properties
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
      (6)   Properties subject to this section shall remain under the annual
registration requirements, security and maintenance standards of this section
as long as they remain vacant.
      (7)   Any person or corporation that has registered a property under this
section must report any change of information contained in the registration
within ten days of the change.
   (G)   Security requirements for abandoned real property.
      (1)   Abandoned or vacated properties subject to this section shall be
maintained in a secure manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized
persons.
      (2)   A “secure manner” shall include, but not be limited to, the closure
and locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may
allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or structure. Broken
windows shall be secured by re-glazing or boarding of the window.
      (3)   If the property is owned by a corporation and/or out-of-area
mortgagee, a local property management company shall be contracted with to
perform monthly inspections to verify compliance with the requirements of this
section and any other applicable laws.
      (4)   The property shall be registered with the city with the name and
24-hour contact phone number of the local property management company.
      (5)   The local property management company shall inspect the property on
a monthly basis to ensure that the property is in compliance with this
subchapter. Upon the request of the city, the local property management company
shall provide a copy of the inspection reports to the Office of Code
Enforcement.
      (6)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to
properly maintain the property may result in a violation of the City Code and
issuance of a citation or notice of violation/notice of hearing by the Code
Enforcement Officer. Pursuant to a finding and determination by the Code
Enforcement Board, the city may take the necessary action to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (H)   Opposing, obstructing Code Official; penalty. Whoever opposes,
obstructs, or resists any Code Official in the discharge of duties as provided
in this subchapter, upon conviction shall be punished as provided by Florida
law.
   (I)   Immunity of Code Officials. Code Officials shall be immune from
prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon real
property while in the discharge of duties imposed by this subchapter.
   (J)   Additional authority. The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall
have authority to require the mortgagee and/or owner of record of any property
affected by this section to implement additional maintenance and/or security
measures including, but not limited to, securing any and all door, window or
other openings, employment of an on-site security guard, or other measures as
may be reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the property.
   (K)   Adoption of rules; expenditure of funds; declaration of city purpose.
The City Manager, consistent with his or her duties and authorities under the
City Charter, including those duties and authorities relating to emergency
situations, is authorized and empowered to promulgate rules and regulations and
expend city funds as may be reasonably necessary and available to carry out the
terms of this subchapter, the expenditure of such funds being declared a proper
city purpose.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-19-88; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09; Am. Ord. 1409, passed
12-16-10; Am. Ord. 1494, passed 9-19-13)
§ 91.76 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of each lot, tract, or parcel of land
within the city to reasonably regulate and effectively control excessive
growths and accumulations. It shall also be the duty of the owner not to create
or allow to be created thereupon any condition which shall be unsanitary, or
have stagnant water or any condition prohibited herein.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-19-88; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09; Am. Ord. 1409, passed
12-16-10)
§ 91.77 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply with respect to untended
growth of weeds, undergrowth, or other dead or living plant life to those
portions of any lot, tract, or parcel of land within the city to the extent
that said portions of any lot, tract, or parcel of land shall remain in its
natural state. This exception is intended to recognize that from time to time
persons who own or are in charge of a lot, tract, or parcel of land choose not
to fully develop or landscape said lot, tract, or parcel of land but rather to
leave portions of the lot, tract, or parcel of land in their natural state.
This exception, however, does not pertain to previously cultivated and improved
or developed property and shall not permit said portions of any lot, tract, or
parcel of land to be used for the accumulation of rubbish, debris, or trash
thereupon.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-19-88; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09; Am. Ord. 1409, passed
12-16-10)
§ 91.78 NOTICE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a Code Official determines that a prohibited condition or public
nuisance as described herein exists, the Code Enforcement Officer shall so
notify the record owner of the property where the condition exists and order
that the owner cause the condition to be removed or corrected. Notices required
by this section shall be provided in accordance with F.S. § 162.12, as it may
be amended from time to time. Notice shall be deemed complete when personally
delivered or mailed.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the property according to the
records of the County Tax Collector for the most current year.
      (2)   The location of the property on which the violation exists.
      (3)   A statement by the Code Enforcement Officer that the property has
been inspected pursuant to this subchapter and that a violation of this
subchapter has been determined to exist on the property.
      (4)   A description of the condition which causes the property to be in
violation of this subchapter.
      (5)   A requirement that the record owner of the property remedy,
correct, or remove the violation within 10 days from the date of notice, or
alternatively file application for a hearing on the issue of the existence of
the alleged violation before the City Code Enforcement Board.
   (C)   In the event that the record owner fails to comply with the
requirement to remedy, correct, or remove the violation within 10 days of
notice, or fails to request a hearing on the issue of the violation before the
City Code Enforcement Board, then and in that event, the city is hereby
authorized to enter upon the said property, remedy, correct, or remove the
violation, and assess the cost thereof together with an administrative charge
of $100 against the property. That special assessment shall constitute a lien
until paid, against the property and shall be recorded upon the public records
of the county.
   (D)   If and in the event said lien shall be deemed by law to be
unenforceable against said property by reason that said property shall
constitute homestead property, then and in that event said violation shall be
declared a public nuisance, and the city is hereby authorized without further
action to commence appropriate proceedings in an appropriate court of the state
to enjoin or otherwise terminate said nuisance.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-19-88; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09; Am. Ord. 1409, passed
12-16-10; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 9-6-12; Am. Ord. 1494, passed 9-19-13)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter and any rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, except those establishing fees, rates, or charges shall
be unlawful and an offense against the city, punishable as provided in §§
10.99 and
30.39 of this code.
(Ord. 236, passed 10-3-85)
   (B)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to allow any condition
described in §§
91.70 through
91.78 to exist on any lot, tract, or parcel of land within the city. The
penalty for said violation shall be as provided in §§
10.99 and
30.39 of this code.
(Ord. 370, passed 5-19-88)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.19.1 (Noise Control) shall be given the following penalties:
         (a)   Warning for the first violation.
         (b)   $50 for the second violation.
         (c)   $150 for the third violation.
         (d)   $250 for any subsequent violation.
      (2)   Any person who willfully or knowingly violates a notice of noise
abatement issued by a court or the Code Enforcement Board ordering abatement of
noise shall be fined, for each day in violation of said notice or order, a sum
of $250.
(Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1331, passed 9-3-09)
(Am. Ord. 1409, passed 12-16-10)
CHAPTER 91A: DEBRIS REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE STREETS, ROADS, ROADWAYS AND PRIVATE
PROPERTY
Section
   
91A.01   Intent and purpose
   
91A.02   Definitions
   
91A.03   Private roadways
   
91A.04   Waiver
   
91A.05   Indemnification and hold harmless
   
91A.06   Emergency road closure
   
91A.07   Private property
§ 91A.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   After declaration of a disaster, the primary mission of the city will be to
protect lives and property, restore governmental services and clear public
streets. Depending on the magnitude of the disaster and after accomplishment of
the primary mission, resources may be available to the city that may not be
available to a private property owner. The intent and purpose of this chapter
is to establish a process by which the city may evaluate and, if necessary,
remove debris from along privately owned streets, roads, roadways, and other
private property in the event of an immediate threat to life, public health,
and safety after a significant disaster. While the city recognizes that, as a
general proposition, the removal of debris from private property is the
responsibility of the property owner, there are occasions when, because of the
magnitude of the disaster and the threat posed to life, health, and safety,
there may be a compelling need to remove debris from private streets, roads,
and roadways and other private property as described in this chapter.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
§ 91A.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly otherwise requires.
   "ACCESS PROPERTIES."
      (1)   Access to the properties depicted on the list entitled "Maintained
Roads List", as it may be amended from time to time, maintained by and in the
custody of the City Public Works Department, and incorporated herein as if
fully set forth verbatim. Access shall be provided if:
         (a)   The city is undertaking to clear and push debris in accordance
with §
91A.06; and
         (b)   It is reasonably possible with respect to the equipment used to
provide access under the circumstances.
      (2)   The Maintained Roads List represents the best efforts of the city
to set forth a complete listing; however, due to the nature of the roadway
system and the historical problems relating to documentation of roadways and
rights-of-way, the listing may not be all inclusive.
   "DEBRIS." Includes, but is not limited to, displaced, broken, or discarded
building and construction materials, garbage, vegetative matter and spoiled or
ruined household goods or materials.
   "PRIVATE PROPERTY." All property that is not owned or controlled by a
governmental entity.
   "PRIVATE STREETS, ROADS AND ROADWAY." Include the rights-of-way as well as
the improved surface that provides access to residential and commercial areas
as identified as private roadways in the Maintained Roads List.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
§ 91A.03 PRIVATE ROADWAYS.
   The city shall remove debris from private roadways when such debris is
determined to pose an immediate threat to the health, safety and welfare of the
determine whether there is an immediate threat to the public health, safety,
and welfare sufficient to warrant removal of said debris in accordance with any
one of the following standards:
   (A)   There is a significant likelihood that rescue vehicles will be
significantly hindered from rendering emergency services to residential and
commercial property should the debris be allowed to remain In place absent city
removal.
   (B)    The type of debris is such that it may reasonably cause disease,
illness, or sickness which could injure or adversely affect the health, safety,
or general welfare of those residing and working in the area if it is allowed
to remain.
   (C)    The clearing is necessary to effectuate orderly and expeditious
restoration of citywide utility services including, but not limited to, power,
water, sewer, and telephone.
   (D)    The debris is determined by the city Building Official to be
dangerous or hazardous.
   (E)    The debris prevents garbage collection thereby creating a public
health hazard.
   (F)   The debris contains contaminants which have a reasonable likelihood of
leaching into the soil and/or aquifer of the city.
   (G)   The debris has a substantial negative impact in preventing or
adversely affecting emergency repairs to buildings and/or property.
   (H)   The debris presents a reasonable danger of being transported by wind
and/or water into the surrounding areas of the city and thereby increasing the
cost of recovery and removal.
   (I)   The debris poses a significant likelihood of, if left over time,
producing mold which would be injurious to public health.
   (J)   The presence of the debris significantly adversely impacts the city's
recovery efforts.
   (K)   The debris significantly interferes with drainage or water runoff, so
as to be a significant hazard in the event of significant rainfall.
   (L)   The sheer volume of the debris is such that it is impractical and
unreasonable to remove in an orderly and efficient manner absent action by the
city.
   (M)   The type, extent and nature of the debris is such that it would cause
much greater damage if the debris was not removed immediately.
   (N)   Commercial or other specific areas will be cleared if, in the opinion
of the City Manager, the clearance will aid the city's recovery operations or
aid the health, safety, or welfare of the residents of the city.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
§ 91A.04 WAIVER.
   With regard to eligibility for federal funding, the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) may waive the requirement for the city to establish
the criteria listed in §
91A.03 as a condition precedent to city action depending on the severity of the
situation.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
§ 91A.05 INDEMNIFICATION AND HOLD HARMLESS.
   Prior to removal of debris by the city as contemplated herein on private
roadways and private property, or clearance by the city of private property as
provided herein, the private property owner shall indemnify and hold harmless,
to the maximum extent permitted by law, the federal, state, and local
government and all employees, officers and agents of the federal, state, and
local government connected with the rendering of such service.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
ROADS, ROADWAYS AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 91A.06 EMERGENCY ROAD CLOSURE.
   Nothing herein shall preclude a first response by the city to clear and push
debris from all roadways (both public and private) including access properties
necessary for the movement of emergency vehicles including police, fire and
ambulance within the first 70 hours after a disaster declaration.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
§ 91A.07 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Nothing herein shall require the city to remove debris from private property
other than the private roadways identified above except where the severity of
the situation is of such magnitude or the debris is so widespread that it is
determined by the City Manager to be a significant immediate threat to the
health, safety and welfare of the city and in the overriding public interest of
the city to remove debris from such areas.
(Ord. 1293, passed 7-24-08)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Park hours
   
92.02   Animals in parks and facilities
   
92.03   Watercraft
   
92.04   Alcoholic beverages
   
92.05   Frank Evans Center
   
92.06   (Reserved)
   
92.07   (Reserved)
   
92.08   Conduct at recreational facilities
Naming
   
92.20   Guidelines for naming of city parks, facilities, streets and other
city-owned property
Fees
   
92.25   Amending parks and recreation fees
   
92.26   Parks and recreation fees
Lake Mary Cemetery
   
92.70   Rules and regulations
   
92.71   Definitions
   
92.72   Rights reserved by the city
   
92.73   Care of cemeteries; limitation of liability; responsibilities of city;
responsibilities of public
   
92.74   Burial spaces
   
92.75   Interments and disinterments
   
92.76   Memorials, plants and grave decorations
   
92.77   Rules of conduct
   
92.78   Cemetery rates
   
92.79   Certificate of interment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PARK HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to be in any public park,
public playground, or public recreation area before the hour and time of
sunrise and after the hour and time of sunset, unless special permission is
obtained from the City Commission. The hour of sunrise and sunset is hereby
established for the purpose of this section as the hour of sunrise and sunset
determined by the National Weather Service Bureau. This section does not apply
to the Sports Complex or Central Park.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 8A, passed 6- 11-75; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 1-
18-07; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 ANIMALS IN PARKS AND FACILITIES.
   Domestic animals on a leash are allowed in parks, unless otherwise posted.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 8A, passed 6- 11-75; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 1-
18-07; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 WATERCRAFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to launch or unload any
watercraft from public parks, public playgrounds, public recreation facilities
or areas, or any other public place.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 8A, passed 6- 11-75; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-
3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to have in their
possession any alcoholic beverages in any of the public parks, public
playgrounds, public recreation areas, or public buildings of the city except at
authorized city facilities and city-run special events.
   (B)   Approval of special event permit applications requesting the
consumption of alcoholic beverages for private events on city property will be
at the discretion of the City Manager.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 8A, passed 6-11-75; Am. Ord. 522, passed 9-6-
90; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 FRANK EVANS CENTER.
   The Frank Evans Center, once known as Old City Hall, 158 N. Country Club
Road, shall be designated as “The Lake Mary Historical Museum at the Frank
Evans Center”, and as per the directive of the City Commission shall be
operated under the care, control and guidance of the Lake Mary Parks and
Recreation Department for the purpose of providing the citizens of Lake Mary
with a historical documentation of the local area.
(Ord. 854, passed 10-2-97; Am. Ord. 1240, passed 1-18-07; Am. Ord. 1658, passed
3-3-22)
§ 92.06 (RESERVED).
§ 92.07 (RESERVED).
§ 92.08 CONDUCT AT RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, “Authorized City Employee” shall
mean City Manager, Parks and Recreation Director and designated staff, all
sworn members of the Lake Mary Police Department, and any other city employees
so designated in writing by the City Manager.
   (B)   All users, participants, spectators, or otherwise thereon at an area
that is a public park, public playground, or public recreation facility or area
within the city shall be expected to exhibit appropriate behavior at all times.
Disorderly conduct by the use of obscene or vulgar language, obscene or vulgar
gestures, profanity, lewd behavior and/or unsportsmanlike behavior shall be
grounds for removal from the premises. Repeated acts of such behavior shall be
grounds for suspension of facility use privileges as a user, participant, and/
or spectator. Any person who fails to comply with an order or directive from an
authorized city employee to leave the premises or to comply with an order of
suspension is declared to be in violation of this chapter punishable pursuant
to § 10.99 of the Lake Mary City Code.
(Ord. 854, passed 10-2-97; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22)
NAMING
§ 92.20 GUIDELINES FOR NAMING OF CITY PARKS, FACILITIES, STREETS, AND OTHER
CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   There will generally be no consideration for the naming of parks,
facilities, streets, and other city owned property after any individual, entity
or organization. If an individual, entity or organization is desirous of having
a property named, a majority vote by the Mayor and Commission is required.
(Res. 908, passed 11-15-12)
FEES
§ 92.25 AMENDING PARKS AND RECREATION FEES.
   Fees established in this chapter will be reviewed by staff on an annual
basis and may be amended by resolution. Fee adjustments will be recommended,
based on the Consumer Price Index, cost increases, and current market rates.
(Ord. 1154, passed 1-20-05; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22)
§ 92.26 PARKS AND RECREATION FEES.
   All fees for the services generally described below are established for
residents and non-residents by resolution, as amended from time to time. The
fee schedule resolution is available online or in the City Clerk's office.
 
Events Center Rental Fees Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Events Center Rental Fees                    Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Weekday Blocks
(Monday - Thursday Block - 8:00 a.m. through 4:00 p.m.)
(Monday - Wednesday Evening Block - 4:00 p.m. through 11:00 p.m.)
Grand Ballroom                               $550             15% discount1
Ballroom A                                   $400             15% discount
Ballroom B                                   $350             15% discount
Meeting Room                                 $300             15% discount
Conference Room                              $155             15% discount
Conference Room (2 hours only)               $60              15% discount
Rotunda                                      $600             15% discount
Full Building                                $1,000           15% discount
Notes:
1 The discount is from the non-resident fee.
Thursday Evening Block - 4:00 p.m. through 11:00 p.m.
Full Building only                           $2,000           15% discount
Friday Block
Full Building only 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.     $1,000           15% discount
(new fee)
Full Building only 3:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.    $4,000           15% discount
Saturday Rental
(8-hour block)
Full Building only                           $5,000           15% discount
Sunday Rental
(8-hour block)
Full Building only                           $4,000           15% discount
Holiday Rental
(8-hour block)
Full Building only                           $5,000           15% discount
Chair Upgrade Fee (300 chairs)               $300             $300
Continuous Contracts                         $300             15% discount
Security Deposit Fee
(refundable)
Full Building                                $500             $500
Partial building                             $200             $200
 
Community Center Rental Fees3                Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Hourly Rentals
Room 1                                       $120             15% discount
Room 2                                       $80              15% discount
TV add-on (flat fee)                         $25              $25
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)
Full Building                                $300             $300
Partial Building                             $200             $200
                                                             
Senior Center Rental Fees4                   Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Main Room (hourly fee)                       $80              15% discount
TV add-on (flat fee)                         $25              $25
Notes:
2 Reserved.
3 See Recreation Program Fees for all Community Center Program Fees.
4 See Recreation Program Fees for all Senior Center Program Fees.
Senior Center Rental Fees4                   Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)
Main Room (hourly fee)                       $200             $200
 
Tennis Center Rental Fees                    Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Tennis Court Rental (hourly fee)             $20              15% discount
Ball Machine Rental (hourly fee)             $10              $10
Adult Tennis Membership (annual)             $410             15% discount
Youth Tennis Membership (annual)             $195             15% discount
Family Tennis Membership (annual)            $520             15% discount
Member Guest Fee                             $10              $10
                                                             
Skate Park Rental Fees                       Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Park Rental                                  $50              15% discount
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)            $100             $100
 
Liberty Park Rental Fees                     Non-Resident Fee City Resident
Pavilion Rental (hourly fee)                 $35              15% discount
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)            $100             $100
 
Central Park Gazebo Rental Fees              Non-Resident Fee City Resident
Gazebo Rental (hourly fee)                   $35              15% discount
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)            $100             $100
 
Trailblazer Park Fees                        Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Splash Pad Group Reservation Fee (new fee)   $2/head          $2/head
Two Picnic Tables Rental (hourly fee)        $30              15% discount
Security Deposit Fee (refundable)            $50              $50
 
Basketball Court Rental Fees                 Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Court Rental (hourly fee)                    $20              15% discount
Athletic Field Rental Fees                   Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
(baseball, softball, soccer)
Field Rental (hourly fee)                    $50              15% discount
Field Preparation Fee (per game)             $20              $20
 
Recreation Program Fees                      Non-Resident Fee City Resident Fee
Adult Athletic Team Fee                      $350             $350
Adult Athletic Season Individual Fee         $50              15% discount
Youth Summer Camp Fee                        $180             15% discount
Youth Athletic Team Fee                      $350             $350
Youth Athletic Season Drop-in Individual Fee $50              15% discount
Tennis Center Program Drop-in Fee (new fee)  $5               $5
Senior Center Annual Membership              $20              $0
Senior Center Non-Member Daily Fee           $1               $0
                                                             
Special Event Fees                           Weekly/Monthly   Annual Event
                                             Events
Farmers Market Part-Time Vendor Fee          $25
Farmers Market Full-Time Vendor Fee          $18
Vendor Application Fee                       $25              $25
Special Event Vendor Fee                     $15              $50
Special Event Hot Food/Food Truck Vendor Fee $25              $100
(new fee)
Special Event Sponsorships - Approved by the Parks and Recreation Director and
set at levels to recover direct event-related costs.
Miscellaneous Fees
Park Bench Sponsorship Fee                   $2,500
Rental Overtime/Excessive Cleaning Fee       Two times rental rate per hour
Additional Staffing Fee                      $35 per hour, per staff member
Small concession items ($10 or less) - Approved by the Parks and Recreation
Director and set at levels to recover costs.
Full-time city employees are eligible to receive the City Resident Rate for
Parks and Recreation Fees.
 
(Ord. 1658, passed 3-3-22; Am. Res. 1048, passed 3-3-22; Am. Res. 1066, passed
4-4-24)
LAKE MARY CEMETERY
§ 92.70 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is in the intent of this subchapter to establish uniform rules and
regulations for the purchase, use and maintenance of cemetery spaces in the
Lake Mary Cemetery and to prescribe procedures for the administration of the
cemetery which comply with the City Charter and Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Commission to delegate authority to the
Parks and Recreation Director through the City Manager, or his or her designee,
to administer these rules and regulations.
   (C)   It is the intent of the City Commission that these rules and
regulations shall apply to every burial space in the cemetery whether said
space is a grave or niche unless specifically exempted herein.
   (D)   It is the intent of the City Commission that these rules and
regulations shall serve as a contract defining the responsibilities of the city
in maintaining the cemetery and the responsibilities of those paying respect to
their loved ones who are interred therein.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ BLOCK.” A plot of land consisting of three lots and 21 spaces which is
identified on the cemetery plat and in the cemetery data base.
   “CEMETERY.” Property owned by the city for the burial of human remains.
   “CERTIFICATE.” The certificate of interment executed by the city certifying
the conveyance of the right to burial in a space.
   “CITY.” The City of Lake Mary, Seminole County, Florida.
   “CONVEYANCE, SALE OR TRANSFER.” The conveyance of a right to burial in a
space and shall not be deemed to convey fee simple title to the space.
   “DISINTERMENT.” The opening of a burial site, the removal of a casket or
other enclosure containing human remains from the open site, and the closing of
the site.
   “FINAL DISPOSITION.” The final disposal of human remains by means including,
but not limited to, earth interment or cremation.
   “FUNERAL.” The observance, service or ceremony held for a deceased person.
   “FUNERAL DIRECTING.” The making of arrangements for, or directing the
arrangements for, the preparation and transportation of human remains for final
disposition; or using, in connection with one’s name, the word “FUNERAL
DIRECTOR,” “LICENSED FUNERAL DIRECTOR,” “UNDERTAKER,” or “MORTICIAN” or
offering or representing one’s self as offering such services.
   “FUNERAL DIRECTOR.” Any person licensed in the State of Florida to practice
funeral directing.
   “GRAVE.” The excavation on a space for the final disposition of human
remains.
   “IMMEDIATE FAMILY.” Spouse, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
sister, mother-in-law and father-in-law.
   “INTERMENT.” The opening of a burial site, the placing of a casket or other
enclosure containing human remains in the open site, and the closing of the
site.
   “LOT.” The numbered divisions as shown on the recorded cemetery plat which
consists of seven spaces.
   “MARKER.” Any memorial that is composed of only one piece; e.g., a flat
marker. There are cases where a marker is composed of two pieces, but has the
effect of a marker; e.g., a bronze marker on granite. This is still technically
a marker, even though it has two pieces.
   “MEMORIAL.” Any marker or structure upon or in any lot or niche, placed
thereupon or therein or partially therein for the purpose of identification or
in memory of the interred.
   “MONUMENT.” Any memorial that has two separate sections or more; e.g., a
stone with a base. The top section of a monument is the “HEADSTONE”, and the
bottom section is the “BASE.”
   “NONRESIDENT.” A person not residing within the corporate limits of the
city.
   “OWNER.” Any person, firm or corporation who has purchased a lot, partial
lot or grave space in the cemetery or the heirs, personal representatives or
successors of the owners.
   “PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR, OR HIS/HER DESIGNEE.” That person designated
by the City Manager to have responsibility for the day-to-day maintenance and
operation of the cemetery.
   “PLOT OR INDIVIDUAL SPACE.” That parcel within a lot in which the remains of
one human being will be or has been buried. It may also contain a maximum of
three cremation urns.
   “REMUNERATION.” To pay for services rendered or losses incurred.
   “RESIDENT.” A person residing within the corporate limits of the city.
   “SERVICE ANIMAL.” Any animal such as a seeing-eye dog or hearing-ear dog
used to assist a person with a disability or an animal trained for law
enforcement purposes and under the control of a law enforcement officer. Refer
to §
92.77(E)(1).
   “VAULT.” An underground chamber or container used to hold a casket.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.72 RIGHTS RESERVED BY THE CITY.
   (A)   The city reserves and shall have the right to refuse admission to Lake
Mary Cemetery and to refuse the use of any of the cemetery’s facilities at any
time to any person or persons whom the city may deem to be in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The city reserves and shall have the right to enlarge, reduce, re-plat
or change the boundaries or grading of any or all sections of the cemetery
including the right to modify and change the locations of or remove or re-grade
roads, drives, walks, or any part thereof.
   (C)   The city reserves and shall have the right to lay, maintain and
operate, or alter or change water lines for irrigation systems, gutters for
drainage and the like and reserves an easement along all lot lines for utility
purposes as needed.
   (D)   The city reserves and shall have the right to use cemetery property
not sold to individual lot owners for cemetery purposes, including the
interment of human remains, or for anything necessary, incidental or convenient
thereto.
   (E)   The city reserves to itself, and to those lawfully using the
privileges and facilities of the cemetery, a perpetual right of ingress and
egress over lots for the purpose of passage to and from other lots.
   (F)   The city reserves and shall have the right to correct any error that
may be made by it in the description, transfer or conveyance of any interment
rights, either by cancelling such conveyance and substituting and conveying in
lieu thereof other interment property of equal value and similar location as
far as possible, or as may be selected by the City Manager or his or her
designee, or, at the sole discretion of the City Manager, by refunding the
amount of money paid on account of said purchase.
   (G)   The city reserves and shall have the right to correct any error that
may be made by it in making interments, disinterments or removals. In the event
such error shall involve the interment of the remains of any person, the city
reserves and shall have the right to remove or transfer such remains so
interred to such other property of equal value and similar location as may be
substituted and conveyed in lieu thereof.
   (H)   The city reserves and shall have the right to prohibit, modify or
remove any structure, object, improvement or adornment from any lot which may
have been placed therein in violation of the rules, or which may be considered
objectionable, or injurious to the lot, adjoining lots or to the cemetery in
general. For the purposes of this section, the term “OBJECTIONABLE” means that
an item interferes with the operation of maintenance equipment, has poor
aesthetic value, or does not conform to established societal values.
   (I)   The city reserves and shall have the right to adopt additional rules
and regulations or to amend, alter or repeal any rule or regulation established
by this subchapter, at any time, and subject only to the public notice
requirements provided by Florida Statutes for ordinance adoption.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.73 CARE OF CEMETERIES; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY; RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY;
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PUBLIC.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   The city shall endeavor at all times to provide general maintenance
and care to the cemetery.
      (2)   The city shall take all reasonable precautions to protect cemetery
space owners and the property rights of cemetery space owners from loss or
damage, but the city shall not be liable, and disclaims all responsibility, for
loss or damage to property or rights of space owners arising from causes beyond
its reasonable control including, but not limited to, damage caused by the
elements, an act of God, thieves, vandals, malicious mischief-makers, or
unavoidable accidents, whether the damage be direct or collateral.
      (3)   The perpetual care of the cemetery is assumed by the taxpayers of
the city and includes the cutting and irrigation of the grass at reasonable
intervals, the raking and cleaning of the grounds, the pruning of shrubs and
trees, and the maintenance of pathways and roadways. Perpetual care by the city
shall in no case mean the maintenance, repair or replacement of any memorial,
placed or erected upon spaces by persons, firms or corporations; nor the doing
of any special or unusual work in the cemeteries, including work caused by
impoverishment of the soil; nor does it mean the reconstruction of any marble
or granite work in any section or portion of a cemetery damaged by the
elements, an act of God, thieves, vandals, malicious mischief-makers, or
unavoidable accidents, whether the damage be direct or collateral.
      (4)   Those members of the public honoring their loved ones must realize
that anything that prohibits the city from fulfilling its commitment to care
for the cemetery or adds undue cost for the taxpayers shall not be allowed. It
shall be the responsibility of those honoring their loved ones to observe the
cemetery rules and regulations, to place items permitted well within the spaces
allowed, and to remove perishable items when they are no longer performing
their role in beautifying the grave site; i.e., dead flowers, faded and
weathered artifacts, fences and similar items.
   (B)   Responsibility for cemetery administration and maintenance.
      (1)   The general administration and maintenance of the cemetery shall be
the responsibility of the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her
designee, who shall be an employee of the city and subject to all rules,
policies and procedures governing all employees of the city.
      (2)   The Parks and Recreation Director is hereby empowered and required
to enforce all rules and regulations provided by this subchapter and to exclude
from the cemetery any person violating the same.
         (a)   Assistance to the public. The Parks and Recreation Director, or
his or her designee, shall aid and assist the public in the locating of burial
spaces and inurnment niches or in interpreting the meaning of this subchapter.
         (b)   Supervision of cemetery maintenance. The Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, shall supervise employees in the general care
and maintenance of the cemetery.
         (c)   Location of burial space. The Parks and Recreation Director, or
his or her designee, shall locate the burial space and authorize the opening of
the grave or niche before work by any party shall commence.
         (d)   Record of burials and inurnments. The Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, shall keep complete and accurate records of
the names of the deceased, the block, lot and space in which the burial is
made, or columbarium wall, row and niche in which an inurnment is made, the
date of burial, or inurnment, and the name of the Funeral Director conducting
the funeral.
         (e)   Sale of blocks, lots, spaces and niches. The Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee, shall sell such blocks, lots,
spaces and niches in the cemetery as authorized by the City Commission and at
the price established by the City Commission. The Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, shall cause to be issued a certificate of
interment upon payment of the whole amount by the purchaser. (See §
92.79 for a copy of the certificate of interment.)
         (f)   Record of blocks, plots, spaces and niches sold. The Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee, shall keep a plat book of the
cemetery on which shall be shown all blocks, plots, spaces and niches which are
sold or are for sale and a record made of the date, name of purchaser and
amount received for each sale. Aforementioned shall also be recorded in the
cemetery data base.
         (g)   Reports. The Parks and Recreation Director shall make financial
reports as required on a form developed by the Finance Department. A copy of
the receipt and certificate will be provided to the Finance Department.
   (C)   Handling of cemetery monies. No cash transactions shall occur at the
cemetery. All monies due to the city for the sale of burial spaces or cemetery
services shall be paid by the person, firm or corporation from whom said.
Monies are collected at the Lake Mary Events Center or at Lake Mary City Hall
by the city representative.
   (D)   Lake Mary Cemetery Fund. One hundred percent of all proceeds from the
sale of interment rights in burial spaces shall be deposited in a special fund
to be known as the “Lake Mary Cemetery Fund.” Proceeds deposited and interest
income earned by the fund shall be used for the Lake Mary Cemetery.
   (E)   Modification of provisions. The City Commission hereby recognizes that
cases may arise in which strict enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter may impose unnecessary hardships. Therefore the City Commission
delegates authority to the City Manager to make exceptions to the provisions of
this subchapter upon a finding by the City Manager that an exception is
necessary to prevent hardship.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.74 BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   Sale of interment rights in burial spaces.
      (1)   Price. The city shall sell interment rights in burial spaces
located in the Lake Mary Cemetery in accordance with prices set forth in §
92.78 or as amended by the City Commission.
      (2)   Acquired rights. No interment rights shall be acquired by the
recipient until the cost of the burial space is fully paid and a certificate is
issued.
      (3)   Payment prior to interment. No interment shall occur unless the
costs of the burial space and other applicable fees have been paid in full.
Cash, money orders or credit cards are acceptable forms of payment and fees
shall be paid prior to 4:00 p.m. on the business day preceding the interment.
      (4)   Address of space owner. It shall be the duty of the space owner to
keep the city informed as to his or her current correct mailing address and the
current address of his or her legal representative
if notices are to be sent to that representative. Notices or other
correspondence mailed to the address on file with the city for the lot owner or
his or her representative shall constitute actual delivery and notification. It
shall be the duty of the space owner to keep themselves informed of any changes
in the rules, regulations or laws governing the operation of the cemeteries.
   (B)   Requirements for issuance of cemetery certificate to veterans.
Honorably discharged veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States, any
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States or the National
Guard of any State or Territory of the United States shall be eligible for a
reduction of fees as noted in §
92.78. This reduction applies only to the grave site of the veteran. For
purposes of this regulation, a general discharge under honorable conditions
shall be deemed an honorable discharge. Proof of service and discharge must be
provided via a DD 214 form.
   (C)   Certificate of interment.
      (1)   The City Manager and the City Clerk are hereby authorized to
execute certificates on behalf of the city to the purchasers of interment
rights in burial spaces within the cemetery, which conveyances shall be valid
for all purposes as the act and deed of the city when the City Clerk affixes
the seal of the city.
      (2)   No certificate shall be executed before the cost of the burial
space has been paid in full by the purchaser.
      (3)   All certificates shall bear a description of the burial space in
accordance with the cemetery plats and cemetery data base approved by the City
Commission and the name and address of the purchaser.
      (4)   All certificates are hereby declared to incorporate and shall be
subject to all rules, regulations and conditions set forth in this subchapter,
and subject, further to such other additional rules and regulations, amendments
or alterations as shall be adopted by the city from time to time. The reference
to such rules and regulations in certificates conveying the right of interment
shall have the same force and effect as if the same were set forth in full
therein.
      (5)   The certificates conveying interment rights and the rules and
regulations of the city now in force or which may hereafter be adopted,
including modifications or amendments thereof, shall be the sole agreement
between the city and the purchaser. The statement of any sales agent or
employee of the city, unless confirmed in writing by the City Manager, shall in
no way bind the city.
      (6)   A certified copy of the executed certificate conveying interment
rights shall be filed with the City Clerk who shall permanently maintain said
copy in the official records of the city.
   (D)   No easement granted. The conveyance of interment rights in a burial
space shall not grant an easement or right of interment to any owner in any
road, drive, alley or walk within the cemetery, but such road, drive, alley or
walk may be used as a means of access to the cemetery or cemetery buildings.
   (E)   Sale, transfer, assignment or re-subdivision.
      (1)   No interment rights in a burial space shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or conveyed in any manner by the owner or his or her heirs without the
written authorization of the city.
      (2)   The re-subdivision of any burial space in any manner is prohibited.
      (3)   The city is authorized, but not required, to repurchase an unused
burial space for the same price at which it was originally sold. No transfer
fee will be required.
   (F)   Family burial lot.
      (1)   In the event there has been no written order by the owner filed
with the city designating those whom he or she authorizes to be interred
therein, the parents or children of such deceased owner may be interred in such
lot in the order of need without the consent of any person claiming any
interest therein.
      (2)   In the event there shall be no parent or child surviving such
deceased person, the right of interment therein shall go as specified by the
statutes of descent of the state.
      (3)   Any surviving spouse and any parent, child or heir of a deceased
owner may waive his or her right to interment in such lot in favor of any other
relative of such deceased owner or of his or her spouse, and upon such waiver,
the remains of the person in whose favor the waiver is made may be interred
therein.
   (G)   Use of burial space. No burial space shall be used for any purpose
except the interment of human remains.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.75 INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS.
   (A)   Burial permit required. No interment shall be made unless the remains
are accompanied by a burial permit as required by state law. The city shall not
be liable for the correctness of the information on the burial permit nor for
the identity of the person sought to be interred. The burial permit may be
obtained from the Funeral Director.
   (B)   Hours when interments are permitted.
      (1)   Regular hours. Arrangements for interments shall be made between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Interments shall
not be made on Saturdays, Sundays or city holidays except as stated below. City
holidays are defined as New Year’s Day, Veterans Day, Memorial Day, July 4th,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
Other holidays may be designated by the City Commission from time to time.
      (2)   Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Where a burial must be scheduled
on a Saturday, Sunday or holidays, interments shall be made between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Interments to be scheduled on a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday shall require a minimum of 24 hours notice to the Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, except where immediate burial is required by
the laws of the State of Florida, the rules and regulations of the Board of
Health, or for religious reasons. The notice requirement may be waived by the
City Manager or his or her designee, if extenuating circumstances prevent 24
hours notice.
   (C)   Interment authorization required.
      (1)   No interment shall be made unless the burial space has been located
by the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee. The Funeral
Director shall issue an interment authorization to the Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, which specifies the name of the deceased, the
name of the Funeral Director, the date and time of the interment, and the
location of the burial space. The interment authorization shall not be issued
unless the cost of the burial space and other applicable fees has been paid in
full.
      (2)   A request for interment must be made to the Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee, no later than 24 hours prior to the time
scheduled for the interment. For interments scheduled on a Monday, the request
for interment must be made to the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her
designee, no later than 4:00 p.m. on the preceding Friday. This requirement may
be waived by the City Manager or his or her designee, if extenuating
circumstances prevent 24 hours notice.
      (3)   A copy of the interment authorization shall be filed with the City
Clerk of the City of Lake Mary.
   (D)   Opening and closing of burial space.
      (1)   Funeral Directors shall be responsible for arranging the opening
and closing of burial spaces at their expense through the city.
      (2)   The opening of a burial space shall not commence without an
interment authorization issued by the Funeral Director and shall not commence
unless the burial space has been located and marked by the Parks and Recreation
Director or his or her designated representative. If any problem is encountered
during the opening of a burial space, the person opening the burial space shall
cease work immediately and notify the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or
her designee, who will resolve the problem before work is permitted to
continue.
      (3)   Graves shall have a minimum cover of 18 inches of soil from the top
of the vault or liner to the ground surface level. Grave mounds shall not be
allowed. Persons opening a grave must place excavated soil on suitable material
to protect the grass on adjacent lots.
      (4)   Graves shall be closed immediately after the funeral service.
      (5)   Removal of excess soil after burial or the filling of the grave
site with additional soil after settling shall be the responsibility of the
Funeral Director. Any excess soil must be removed the same day as the burial,
and any filling needed as a result of settling must be accomplished within five
days of the burial. Upon failure to remove excess soil or to fill as required
above, the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee, may cause the
same to be accomplished with the costs thereof charged to the Funeral Director,
which cost shall be immediately due and payable.
      (6)   Any additional city services required due to failure by the
applicable Funeral Director to abide by this subchapter and any reasonable
rules and regulations promulgated to implement this subchapter shall be charged
to the Funeral Director and be immediately due and payable.
      (7)   The Funeral Director and his or her subcontractors (i.e., vault
company, grave diggers, and the like) shall exercise all possible care to
protect grave markers, monuments, water lines, and other cemetery fixtures, and
shall be held liable for any damage incurred.
   (E)   Graves and vaults.
      (1)   No burial above ground shall be permitted.
      (2)   Only one interment shall be used per grave, except for the
following:
         (a)   One casketed remains and three cremated remains;
         (b)   Two cremated remains in one cremation plot; or
         (c)   Two urns per cremation niche.
      (3)   Pre-cast concrete, natural stone, or steel vaults shall be used in
every uncremated interment except the interment of newborn infants. Such vaults
shall be of sufficient construction and weight as to prevent retention of water
and cave-in of the grave space.
   (F)   Liability for delays. The city shall not be liable for damages caused
by any delay in the interment of a body where a protest, just or unjust, of the
interment has been made, where the rules and regulations have not been complied
with, where a burial space has not been paid for, or where the body is not
accompanied by a proper burial permit.
   (G)   Written protests. The city shall refuse to recognize any protest of an
interment unless said protest is made in writing and filed with the Parks and
Recreation Director and a copy will be given to the City Manager. The remains
shall be retained by the Funeral Director and shall not be admitted to the
cemetery until such protest is resolved.
   (H)   Interments for remuneration. Owners shall not allow interments to be
made in their burial spaces for remuneration without written permission from
the city.
   (I)   Disinterment.
      (1)   Although removal contrary to the expressed or implied wish of the
original owner of the burial space shall not be allowed, a body or cremated
remains may be removed from the original burial space to another burial space
within the cemetery at the request of the surviving spouse or heirs when there
has been an exchange or purchase of a burial space for that purpose. A
disinterment at the request of the surviving spouse or heirs shall be arranged
by a Funeral Director and shall be the responsibility of the Funeral Director.
      (2)   A disinterment directed by the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be the responsibility of the person, firm or corporation
requesting the court order.
      (3)   A disinterment directed by a medical examiner for the purpose of
holding an inquest shall be the responsibility of the medical examiner or his
or her lawful agents.
      (4)   All disinterments shall be subject to the same rules and
regulations established by this subchapter for interments. All disinterments
for the purpose of removing the remains from the cemetery shall, in addition,
require a transit permit signed by the appropriate public authority.
      (5)   The city may perform a disinterment to correct an error in
interment and may transfer the remains erroneously interred to the correct
burial space or to another burial space of equal value and similar location as
may be substituted and conveyed in lieu thereof.
   (J)   Compliance with all laws. In addition to the rules and regulations
established by this subchapter, all interments, disinterments and removals
shall be subject to the orders and laws of the properly constituted public
authorities.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.76 MEMORIALS, PLANTS AND GRAVE DECORATIONS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers.
      (1)   No monument marker or other structure may exceed a vertical height
of four feet (48 inches) unless approved by the City Commission.
      (2)   All burial spaces shall have no more than one monument or grave
marker with the exception that family burial lots may have a family marker and
a marker for each family member interred therein.
      (3)   For interments after October 1, 2010, a permanent monument or grave
marker shall be required on all burial spaces. Markers or monuments must be
installed no later than 180 days after internment.
      (4)   All monuments, grave markers and corner markers shall be of bronze,
granite, marble or other equally durable stone material, metal or metal alloy.
Monuments and markers shall be placed on a foundation which is no closer than
three inches to the boundary lines of the grave space.
      (5)   No monument or marker shall be set unless the burial space has been
located by the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designated
representative. The Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee,
shall clearly mark the burial space upon which the monument or marker will be
set and shall issue written authorization to the monument company to proceed
with the construction of the foundation for the monument or marker. A request
for authorization must be made to the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or
her designee, by 4:00 p.m. on the business day preceding the day on which the
setting of the monument or marker will occur. All monuments, grave markers and
corner markers shall be set between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
      (6)   All monuments, grave markers and corner markers shall be placed on
a foundation which shall be adequately designed to prevent future settlement,
tilting or cracking. All foundations shall be built by the monument company at
the cost of the owner. In order to ensure consistent installation of cemetery
monuments and markers within all city-owned cemeteries, the following shall
apply:
         (a)   Permit required. Installation of all foundations will require
the issuance of a permit to the monument company by the Parks and Recreation
Director, or his or her designee. The cost of the permit will be as established
in §
92.78 and will be nonrefundable. The permit fee will be paid by the monument
company and will cover the cost of one foundation inspection. Additional
inspections will require payment of a $25 service fee by the monument company.
No additional fee will be required for the actual placement of the monument or
marker onto the foundation.
         (b)   Monument or upright marker. All monuments must have a foundation
installed that is three inches wider than the monument on all four sides.
         (c)   Flush-mounted marker. A foundation shall be installed that is at
least as long and as wide as the marker that will be resting upon it. The
foundation shall be constructed of concrete that is a minimum of three inches
in depth and shall be reinforced with a steel bar one-half inch in diameter.
         (d)   All foundations. In all installations, the foundation shall be
constructed upon well-compacted soil. The foundation shall be constructed of
concrete and shall have a minimum designed strength of 2,000 pounds per square
inch (2,000 psi). Foundations shall be constructed with the use of forming for
the upper four inches of the cast-in-place concrete. Wood forms are permitted,
but must be removed after the concrete has cured in place. The surface of the
foundation shall be level and have a smooth float finish. After curing of the
concrete foundation, form work shall be removed and the area back-filled with
screened topsoil prior to setting of the monument or marker.
         (e)   Inspection. All foundations shall be inspected by the Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee. If the foundation installation is
determined to be satisfactory, the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her
designee, shall authorize the monument company to proceed with the setting of
the monument or marker. If the foundation installation is determined to be
unsatisfactory, the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee,
shall issue written notice to the monument company requiring that the problem
(s) be corrected. No authorization shall be issued to proceed with the setting
of the monument or marker until the foundation installation is determined to be
satisfactory.
         (f)   Time of inspection. To facilitate inspection by the Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee, all foundations shall be set
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
         (g)   Rights reserved. The city reserves the right to modify the
specifications contained herein for installation of any foundation, monument or
marker, if, in the sole discretion of the Parks and Recreation Director, or his
or her designee, such modification is deemed to be desirable.
      (7)   Where a monument or marker has been previously set, no monument or
marker shall be engraved unless the burial space has been located by the Parks
and Recreation Director, or his or her designee, or his or her designated
representative. The Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee,
shall clearly mark the burial space upon which the monument or marker will be
engraved and shall issue written authorization to the monument company to
proceed with the engraving of the monument or marker. A request for
authorization must be made to the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her
designee, by 4:00 p.m. on the business day preceding the day on which the
engraving of the monument or marker will occur.
      (8)   Any monument or marker which has been set in violation of the rules
and regulations established by this section shall be removed from the grave
site by the monument company. It shall be the responsibility of the monument
company to reset the monument or marker in accordance with the rules and
regulations of this section without charge to the owner or the city.
      (9)   Lettering on niches shall comply with all requirements established
by the city for uniformity. Any lettering which has been placed on a niche
which fails to comply with all such requirements shall be replaced by the
monument company without charge to the owner or city.
      (10)   It shall not be the responsibility of the city to replace or
repair temporary metal grave markers, and all temporary grave markers shall be
removed when the permanent marker is set. Any temporary grave marker remaining
on the
grave six months after the interment shall be removed by the Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee, at no risk to the city.
      (11)   While the city will exercise all possible care to protect raised
lettering, carving or ornaments on any monument or memorial, it disclaims
responsibility and shall not be liable for any damage or injury thereto.
      (12)   The monument company shall exercise all possible care to protect
grave markers, monuments, water lines, and other cemetery fixtures, and shall
be held liable for any damage incurred.
   (B)   Plants, shrubs, flowers, trees and grass.
      (1)   Permanent planting, maintenance and removal of grasses, shrubs,
trees, flowers, and the like, shall be done only by the city.
      (2)   The Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee, shall
remove all floral designs, flowers, weeds, trees, shrubs, plants or herbage of
any kind from a cemetery as soon as, in the judgment of the Parks and
Recreation Director or his or her designee, they become unsightly, dangerous,
detrimental or diseased or when they interfere with the normal maintenance of
the cemetery. Notice of such removal shall not be required.
      (3)   The city shall not be liable for frozen plants or herbage of any
kind or for plantings damaged by the elements, thieves, vandals or by other
causes beyond its control.
      (4)   Live flowers from burial services shall be removed by the Parks and
Recreation Director, or his or her designee, at their discretion.
   (C)   Enclosures, coping, curbing and borders.
      (1)   Fences, hedges, pipe, chains or raised enclosures of any kind are
prohibited on grave sites. No coping or curbing shall be installed.
      (2)   In order to allow free passage of mowers or other equipment, curbs,
coping, walls or other enclosures around spaces will not be permitted.
      (3)   The requirements of this division (C) shall not apply to portable
fences, chains and other structures or equipment used during interments or
memorial ceremonies provided said fences, chains, structures, or equipment are
removed immediately after completion of the interment or ceremony.
   (D)   Grave decorations.
      (1)   Grave decorations of any kind will be removed when they violate
cemetery rules and regulations. Prior to removal, no notice of violation shall
be provided.
      (2)   Special decorations placed on a grave site on special dates such as
birthdays, anniversaries, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, Memorial Day, Veteran’s
Day, Christmas, Easter or other dates of religious or cultural significance,
may be placed no more than seven calendar days before the holiday or special
date and shall be removed within seven calendar days after the holiday or
special date. Decorations not removed within the specified time shall be
removed by cemetery personnel and disposed of without notice.
      (3)   The following shall not be allowed upon grave sites and, if so
placed, shall be removed at no risk to the city:
         (a)   Toys, dolls, stuffed animals or similar articles;
         (b)   Shells, rocks, stones or pebbles;
         (c)   Glass, ceramic or plastic objects;
         (d)   Metal designs, frames, or hangers except as allowed on a
temporary basis;
         (e)   Chairs, settees, benches or tables;
         (f)   Wood or metal boxes or cases;
         (g)   An ornament or item of any type that:
            1.   Interferes with the maintenance of the cemetery; or
            2.   Presents a potential safety hazard to cemetery staff and the
public; or
            3.   Offends or insults any segment of the population that resides
in the community; or
            4.   Disrespects the hallowed ground of the cemetery; or
            5.   Disrupts the good order of the cemetery.
      (4)   Flags may be placed on the grave site of a veteran in accordance
with the following rules:
         (a)   Up to one American flag no larger than 13 inches by eight inches
may be placed on a grave site on Veteran’s Day, Memorial Day and Independence
Day;
         (b) Any flag remaining on a grave site after seven days shall be
removed by cemetery staff without the need for notice; flags if faded or
damaged, shall be destroyed in a dignified manner in accordance with Title 4,
Chapter 1, Section 8, U.S.C. (“Respect for the Flag”).
         (c)   Small American flags no larger than six inches by four inches
may be incorporated into floral arrangements at all times during the year.
      (5)   All decorations shall be placed on a grave site at the owner’s
risk, and the city shall not be responsible for the loss of any decorations by
any cause whatsoever.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.77 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Visiting hours. The cemeteries shall be open for visitation purposes
from sunrise to sunset daily.
   (B)   Use of roadways and entrances.
      (1)   No person shall use the roadways of the cemeteries as public
thoroughfares for passage through the cemetery or for any other purpose, other
than for attendance at funerals, memorial occasions, visits to graves or
cemetery lots, or other similar uses and purposes, including official business.
      (2)   No person shall climb over, go through or go over any wall, fence
or hedge in the cemetery, trespass in any manner upon cemetery property, or
enter or leave the cemetery at any place other than at regularly established
gateways or entrances and at such times as are established by the city for
visitation.
   (C)   Pedestrians.
      (1)   It is strictly prohibited to write upon, deface or injure any
memorial, fence or other structure within the cemetery.
      (2)   Persons visiting a cemetery or attending a funeral are strictly
prohibited from gathering flowers, either wild or cultivated, breaking or
injuring any tree, shrub or plant, or feeding or disturbing the birds or other
animal life within the cemetery.
   (D)   Vehicles.
      (1)   Admission. Admission of vehicles upon cemetery roads shall be
permitted as a privilege and not as a right inherent to the ownership of
interment rights in a burial space
      (2)   Entrance. No vehicle shall enter a cemetery except through a
regular entrance maintained for such purpose.
      (3)   Driving on lots and lawns. No person shall drive a vehicle over
cemetery lots or upon cemetery lawns unless the grass area is designated as a
parking area.
      (4)   Parking. No person shall park any vehicle so as to obstruct any
cemetery driveway, and no person shall drive or park any vehicle on any burial
space. Parked vehicles must not be left with the engine running when the driver
is not in the vehicle.
      (5)   Speed. No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of ten
miles per hour.
   (E)   Miscellaneous rules of conduct.
      (1)   Dogs and other animals. Dogs and other domestic animals or non-
domestic animals are prohibited on cemetery grounds or in cemetery buildings,
except that this prohibition shall not apply to service animals accompanied by
their owner.
      (2)   Disrespecting grave sites. No person shall disrespect or desecrate
grave sites by lying, sitting, or standing on top of markers, monuments or any
other memorial structures.
      (3)   Disturbing funerals. No loud talking shall be permitted within
hearing distance of funeral services.
      (4)   Peddling or soliciting. Peddling of flowers or plants or soliciting
the sale of any commodity is prohibited within the boundaries of the
cemeteries.
      (5)   Littering. The throwing of trash or litter on the drives, paths,
lawns, lots or any other part of the cemetery grounds is prohibited.
      (6)   Signs and advertisements. No signs, notices or advertisements of
any kind shall be allowed in a cemetery unless placed by the city.
      (7)   Firearms. No firearms shall be permitted in the cemeteries except
for ceremonial purposes by a military escort accompanying the funeral of a
veteran or a law enforcement officer.
      (8)   Other inappropriate activities. No person shall disturb the peace
or disrupt the proper order of any cemetery by yelling, fighting, running,
engaging in games or sports activities, engaging in horseplay, playing loud
music, or using offensive words or insults. No person shall loiter or wander
aimlessly about on cemetery grounds.
   (F)   Vandalism or injury to cemeteries.
      (1)   In accordance with Florida Statutes, any person who willfully and
knowingly destroys, mutilates, defaces, injures or removes any monument,
marker, gravestone or other item intended for the protection, identification or
ornamentation of any monument or gravestone or willfully destroys, mutilates,
removes, cuts, breaks or injures any tree, shrub, or plant placed or being
within the boundaries of the cemeteries is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree, punishable as provided in Florida Statutes.
      (2)   Any person who willfully and knowingly disturbs the contents of a
grave is guilty of a felony of the third degree, punishable as provided by
Florida Statutes.
      (3)   This division (F) shall not apply to any person authorized by law
to remove or disturb a monument or gravestone or the contents of a grave.
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.78 CEMETERY RATES.
   The following are the City of Lake Mary Cemetery rates, effective October 1,
2010.
Residents or property owners                                             $1,000
Non-city residents                                                       $1,500
Infant space/resident                                                    $200
Infant space/non-resident                                                $250
Cremation space/resident                                                 $800
Cremation space/non-resident                                             $1,100
Permit fee                                                               $25
Veteran spaces/residents or property owners (applies only to the veteran $500
space)
Veteran space/non-city resident (applies only to the veteran space)      $1,000
 
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
§ 92.79 CERTIFICATE OF INTERMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6017.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1391, passed 10-21-10)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
93.02   New streets
   
93.03   Limiting use of streets
   
93.04   Access control
Construction and Repair
   
93.10   Permit and bond required
   
93.11   Inspections
   
93.12   Duty and liability of permit holder
   
93.13   Barricades required
Street Lighting
   
93.20   Creation of district; name
   
93.21   Area of district; purpose of assessments
   
93.22   Governing board
   
93.23   Purpose of district
   
93.24   Powers of district
   
93.25   Officers
   
93.26   Protection; assessment roll
   
93.27   Tentative budget
   
93.28   Procedures for lighting; assessment; payment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park any motor
vehicle, or place any obstruction, either temporary or permanent, within any
public road right-of-way. This subsection is in addition to and supplemental to
F.S. § 316.2045.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 8A, passed 6-11-75)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit, or cause or
allow to be placed or deposited on any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, park,
or other public space within the limits of the city, any building material
whatsoever, or any article or thing which may obstruct or hinder the traffic
thereon, without a special permit from the City Council or its designated
representative. The permit shall state clearly what space may be used and what
materials may be placed thereon, the length of time the permit shall remain in
force, and the terms and conditions on which the authorization for placing
materials on public property is granted. When in the discretion of the City
Council or an official designated by the City Council, it becomes necessary for
the protection of motorists or pedestrians, the person issued the permit shall
provide adequate protective devices, to include but not be limited to sheds,
walls, and guard rails to protect persons in the area. These protective devices
shall be construed in accordance with plans approved by the City Council or an
official designated by the City Council, and shall be maintained thereafter
during the construction or repair, but under no conditions shall the streets
and sidewalks be obstructed to so great an extent as not to allow passage of
pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.02 NEW STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay out on the ground and establish
the boundaries or grade of any public roadway or street without first receiving
approval from the City Council or an official designated by the City Council,
who shall describe the exact boundaries and grade of the roadway or street.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03 LIMITING USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to limit the use of, or vacate,
abandon, discontinue, or close any existing roadway, street, or alley, and to
renounce and disclaim any right of the city and public in and to any land
delineated on any recorded map or plat as a roadway, street, or alley. The
procedure to be followed shall comply with the provisions of F.S. Ch. 335 and
F.S. § 336.10, as nearly as practicable.
   (B)   The City Council hereby formally accepts all offers of dedications of
any streets, alleys, roadways, easements, parks, playgrounds, or any other
offer of dedications of any public property now in existence on any recorded
plat or on the Public Records of Seminole County.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
§ 93.04 ACCESS CONTROL.
   In order to promote the safety of motorists and pedestrians and to minimize
traffic congestion and conflict by reducing the magnitude of and the points of
contact, the following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   A point of access (i.e., a driveway or other opening for vehicles onto
a public street) shall not exceed 24 feet in width, except as otherwise
provided in this section. The maximum number of points of access permitted onto
any one street shall be as follows.
 
Lot Width Abutting Street Points of Access
Less than 80 feet         One
80 - 200 feet             Two
Over 200 feet             Two, plus one for each additional 200 feet thereof
 
   (B)   In lieu of any two openings permitted on any one street, there may be
permitted a single point of access up to 60 feet in width; however, service
stations shall be permitted two openings not to exceed 60 feet in width, along
any abutting public street, provided the property abuts the street for a
distance of not less than 150 feet.
   (C)   Except in R-1 and R-1A Districts, there shall be a minimum distance of
12 feet between any two openings onto the same street. In R-1 and R-1A
Districts, access point openings shall not be closer than two feet to any
property line.
   (D)   No point of access shall be cut or altered, and no point of access or
opening for vehicles onto a public street shall be established without approval
from the City council or an official designated by the City Council.
   (E)   No curbs shall be cut or altered, and no point of access or opening
for vehicles onto a public street shall be established without approval from
the City Council or an official designated by the City Council.
   (F)   Projects for which a site plan is required by the city shall be
considered on an individual basis and may deviate from these requirements in
the interest of traffic safety after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Board of the City and final approval by the City council.
   (G)   Permit fees shall be $12 except for single-family dwellings, where the
fee shall be $5.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 93.10 PERMIT AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any construction or repair
work involving the tearing up and re-laying of any street or sidewalk or any
part thereof, or to obstruct, dig up, or in any way disturb any street or
sidewalk or part thereof without first procuring a permit authorizing the work
from the City Building and Zoning Administrator. The permit herein provided for
shall be issued under the conditions prescribed by the City Council. It shall
accurately describe the portion of the street or sidewalk or other area to be
affected and shall make provisions for the replacement of that part of the
street or sidewalk which is to be replaced so that it is in the same condition
as when disturbed and shall state a definite time within which the permit shall
be operative.
   (B)   As a condition precedent to the issuance of any permit, a cash or
surety bond must be posted by the applicant to assure a good and workman-like
performance of the repair work. The amount of the cash or surety bond shall be
established by the City Council or by the city Building and Zoning
Administrator, pursuant to regulations set by the City council and shall be in
sufficient amount to insure the restoration of the city street or sidewalk or
any part thereof to the same condition that existed prior to the excavation,
construction, or alteration. This shall be done in accordance with
specifications rendered by the City Council or an official designated by the
City Council. As an alternative to the provisions of a surety bond, the person
applying for the permit may provide for the deposit of equivalent cash in an
escrow account with the city.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.11 INSPECTIONS.
   After the alteration has been completed and the property restored, the
person issued the permit shall notify the City Council or an official
designated by the City Council, who in turn shall inspect the property. If
restoration has been completed in a good and workman-like manner, the cash or
surety bond shall be restored to the permit holder. If the permit holder fails
to perform the obligation hereunder, within a reasonable time, the City Council
or an official designated by the City Council shall declare the cash or surety
bond to be forfeited to the city and the Department of Public Works shall cause
the alterations to be restored to their pre-existing condition.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
§ 93.12 DUTY AND LIABILITY OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to release or discharge the
permit holder from any liability other than for the restoration if the city's
streets and sidewalks, which may arise from any alteration of city streets or
sidewalks or any part thereof. It shall be incumbent on the permit holder to
become properly informed of the location of any utility lines or appurtenances
within the project area which may be subject to damage as a result thereof.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.13 BARRICADES REQUIRED.
   Any person carrying on or doing any construction, excavation, or repair work
on any street or sidewalk or any part thereof in the city pursuant to a permit
as provided in §
93.12 shall erect and maintain proper, safe, and sufficient barricades, and
during that period of time between one-half hour before sunset and one-half
hour after sunrise, shall maintain sufficient lights or flares around the
barricades, work or excavations to warn person s of the presence of the
excavation and work so as to prevent injury to persons or property.
(Ord. 40, passed 2-19-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
STREET LIGHTING
§ 93.20 CREATION OF DISTRICT; NAME.
   (A)   There is hereby created, pursuant to the authority of F.S. § 189.401
et seq., including but not necessarily limited to § 189.4031, § 189.4041, §
189.4065, § 189.416, § 189.417 and § 189.418 a dependent municipal service
assessment and benefit district within portions of the incorporate area of the
city, as hereinafter defined for the purpose of providing for street lighting,
and the maintenance thereof, from revenues collected by special assessment
within such district only. The special assessments within the district shall be
apart from and in addition to existing municipal and county taxes. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall preclude property owners subject to the special
assessment and benefit district herein created from obtaining the full range of
the general services and benefits provided routinely by the city to all other
property owners within the incorporated areas of the city for similar services.
   (B)   The name of the district to serve and especially benefit the area
hereinafter described shall be the City Street Lighting District.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.21 AREA OF DISTRICT; PURPOSE OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A) The district shall include properties within the Meadow Brooke
Subdivision according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 44, pages 77 to
79 of the Public Records of Seminole County, Florida; the properties located
within the Stratford Court Subdivision according to the plat thereof as
recorded in Plat Book 44, page 6 of the Public Records of Seminole County,
Florida; the properties locate within the Sun Oaks Subdivision according to the
plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 44, pages 38 and 39 of the Public Records of
Seminole County, Florida; the properties located within Timacuan Unit 16
according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat Book 44, pages 46 through 51 of
the Public Records of Seminole County, Florida; and the properties located
within the Woldun Subdivision according to the plat thereof recorded in Plat
Book 46, pages 8 and 9 of the Public Records of Seminole County, Florida, more
particularly described as the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
Section 15, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, Seminole County, Florida
containing therein 40.1053 acres more or less; Timacuan Unit 16, Phase II, Plat
Book 51, pages 66 through 68; Manderley, Phase II, Plat Book 50, pages 12 and
13; Manderley, Phase III, Plat Book 50, pages 28 and 29; Woldun, Plat Book 47,
pages 14 and 15; Eagles Crossing, Plat Book 47, pages 17 and 18. This district
may be amended by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B) The special assessments shall be levied to provide revenues to cover
administrative costs, maintenance, legal expenses, and capital expenditures
necessary to the lighting district.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91; Am. Res. 399, passed 12-5-91; Am. Ord. 625, passed
12-3-92; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 11-2-00)
§ 93.22 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The City Commission shall be the governing board of the district.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.23 PURPOSE OF DISTRICT.
   The purpose of the district is to provide for the funds necessary to pay for
the installation of street lighting, energy and maintenance of the lighting in
the lighting district hereby created as set forth in §
93.21. The lighting district will provide street lighting as requested by a
majority of the property owners in the aforesaid lighting district.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.24 POWERS OF DISTRICT.
   The district shall have all powers authorized by law necessary, convenient
or proper, to the accomplishment of its purpose. By way of addition thereto and
not by way of limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the district shall
have the following enumerated powers:
   (A)   To sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in
all courts in its own name.
   (B)   To make and execute contractual arrangements or other instruments
necessary or convenient to the exercise of its power with any person, firm or
corporation, for the installation and maintenance of street lighting within the
district, or for any other matter proper for the effectuation of the purposes
of the district.
   (C)   To enter into interlocal agreements authorized by the provisions of
F.S. § 163.01, for the purposes therein expressed.
   (D)   To adopt and use a seal and alter the same.
   (E)   To borrow money and issue general obligation bonds, assessment bonds
or any other obligations or indebtedness in such a manner and subject to such
limitations as may be provided by law.
   (F)   To employ and fix the compensation of such personnel as may be
required for the purposes of the district, including without limitation,
professional, supervisory and clerical.
   (G)   To levy special assessments against the property within the district
initially and thereafter, monthly as hereinafter provided and as more
specifically provided by resolution.
   (H)   To charge, collect and enforce the collection of special assessments
by foreclosure or other means authorized by law § 189.4065, as same may be from
time to time amended, which shall be collected in accordance with F.S. Ch. 170
or 197.
   (I)   To enter into contracts to provide for the billing and collection of
assessments, the placing and recording of liens and the employment of attorneys
to enforce collection by foreclosure of liens, and to provide such other legal
or administrative services as the district may require.
   (J)   To contract or expand the boundaries of the territory to be affected
by and subject to the special assessment of the district as the governing body
shall, by resolution, fix and determine.
   (K)   To merge with other districts, pursuant to F.S. § 189.4042, (1990), as
same shall from time to time be amended.
   (L)   To adopt by-laws, rules and resolutions concerning the powers, duties
and functions of officers of the district, the conduct of business of the
district and the maintenance of records.
   (M)   To establish a budget initially and thereafter on a yearly basis, as
hereinafter provided.
   (N)   To provide for and establish an office for the maintenance of the
district.
   (O)   To incorporate additional lands within the district as herein
provided.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 11-2-00)
§ 93.25 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The City Manager, acting on behalf of the City Commission as governing
body of the district, shall ex officio be the chief executive officer of the
district. He shall keep separate records of all expenses incurred on behalf of
the district and shall charge all such expenses to the district. He may employ
and pay the wages of such personnel in the same manner and subject to the same
procedure by which city employees are employed, compensated, disciplined and
discharged.
   (B)   The City Finance Director shall ex officio be the Secretary and Chief
Financial Officer of the district. The Finance Director shall receive and
expend all funds of the district in the same manner and subject to the same
procedures as are applied to the receipt and expenditure of city funds. The
Finance Director shall keep separate records of all expenses incurred on behalf
of the district and charge all such expenses to the district.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.26 PROTECTION; ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The utility who will install and be responsible for the actual
maintenance of the street lighting, shall protect and save the city and the
district harmless from any and all damages and loss arising from, out of, or by
reason of the construction, operation or maintenance of the street lighting
within the district.
   (B)   Each lot, tract or parcel benefited by the street lighting as
constructed and installed under the direction of the district, shall become
subject to special assessment and shall immediately be placed upon the
assessment roll.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.27 TENTATIVE BUDGET.
   On or before July 15, 1991 and on July 15 of each year thereafter, the City
Manager shall submit to the City Commission a tentative budget for the district
which shall include the charges made for the installation and energy and
maintenance of the street lights, an allowance for legal fees necessary for the
collection and enforcement of special assessments and the administrative costs
incurred in assessing charges and collection of the special assessments. The
tentative budget shall be considered and adopted by the City Commission in the
same manner as provided by law from time to time, for the consideration and
adoption of the city budget. Assessment shall be established as provided by
F.S. Ch. 170 or 197.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91)
§ 93.28 PROCEDURE FOR LIGHTING; ASSESSMENT; PAYMENT.
   The City Commission may also provide street lighting, and provide for the
method and assessment and payment of all or part of the cost of any such
improvement and/or energy and maintenance by levying and collecting special
assessments for other specially designated areas, as follows:
   (A)   A resident, registered elector of any lot, parcel or tract of land
within the city, not served by street lighting, may apply to the City Clerk to
designate a new area for street lighting, which area shall include the
applicant's lot, parcel or tract. The size of the new area shall be determined
by considering economy of operation above other considerations.
   (B)   Upon designation of the new area to be benefited, the Clerk shall
provide the applicant with a petition form containing a place for the
signatures of all resident, registered electors within the area and the
addresses of the resident, registered electors. The petition shall state its
purpose at the top. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining the
required consent, signature and information from at least 50% plus one of the
resident, registered electors within the area.
   (C)   Upon receiving the completed petition, the Clerk shall verify that it
contains the required information and number of signatures, and shall then
cause an election of all record title owners as of January 1, of the year
application was made within the defined area.
   (D)   A two-thirds majority of all votes in an area proposed to be included
in the a district in favor of the establishment of the lighting district shall
cause its creation. Assessments and operations of the new district shall
proceed as provided herein.
   (E)   Any individual record title owner within the city may apply to be
included in the lighting district. The total cost of providing the lighting,
including installation and administrative costs, shall be initially assessed
against the record title owner.
      (1)   After the street lighting has been approved and the total cost
thereof ascertained, the City Commission shall proceed by resolution to levy
special assessments against the property within the area comprising the
lighting district. The total amount specially assessed against the specially
benefited property shall not exceed the cost designated to be assessed in the
resolution provided in division (c) hereof, and in no event will the total
amount of the special assessment exceed such special benefit. The special
assessment shall be due and payable and shall draw interest from such date as
the City Commission shall provide in the resolution. All special assessments
shall be due and payable as the City Commission shall provide by resolution and
shall be legal, valid and binding first liens upon the property until paid. If
the liens are not paid when due, there shall be added a penalty at the
statutory rate per month, until paid.
      (2)   The method of assessment shall be as provided by F.S. Ch. 170 or
197 on a parcel basis, or any other equitable basis for each lot, tract or
parcel to include residential, commercial and institutional usage of the
property to be assessed, served and specially benefited. Each lot, tract,
parcel or unit within the district shall be deemed to be specially benefited by
those street lights which form a part of the street lighting plan within the
district. No exemption from assessment shall be authorized, including but not
limited to homesteads, schools or educational, benevolent, fraternal,
scientific institutions, religious, non-profit or charitable organizations. All
municipal facilities shall be specifically exempted from assessment.
      (3)   The initial special assessments levied by the City Commission as
well as continuing annual/monthly special assessments provided for herein,
shall be due and payable as specified in the resolution. Upon the failure of
any property owner to pay any annual installment due or any part thereof of any
annual interest on a deferred payment, the City Commission shall cause to be
brought the necessary legal proceedings to enforce payment thereof, with all
accrued interest and penalties, together with all legal costs incurred,
including a reasonable attorney's fee to be assessed as part of the costs in
the event of default in payment of any installment or an assessment or any
accrued interest on said assessment, the whole assessment with the interest and
penalties thereon shall immediately become due and payable and subject to
foreclosure. Special assessments shall remain liens, co-equal with the liens of
all state, county, district and municipal taxes, superior in dignity to all
other liens, titles and claims until paid.
      (4)   The district may establish an interim assessment in order to
commence immediate service or delay commencement until the first budget year
after approval.
   (F)   For utility customers, the street lighting fee shall be shown as a
separate line item in a consolidated monthly utility bill that is generally
paid by a single payment. In the event a partial payment is received, the
payment shall first be applied to garbage, next applied to stormwater, next
applied to lighting, next applied to sewer and finally applied to water.
(Ord. 544, passed 5-2-91; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 11-2-00)
CHAPTER 94: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Permits and authorizations required
   
94.03   Application for special events permit
   
94.04   Additional public protection
   
94.05   Conditions for granting permit
   
94.06   Indemnification and insurance
   
94.07   Notice of denial of application for permit
   
94.08   Appeal procedure
   
94.09   Revocation of permit
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “PUBLIC ISSUE SPEECH.” Speech or other activity protected by the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution communicating information or views
on matters of public policy concern.
   “PUBLIC ISSUE SPEECH EVENT.” An event, parade, or demonstration which is
exclusively or primarily for “Public Issue Speech” or other activity protected
by the First Amendment.
   “SPECIAL EVENT.” Any outdoor public assembly for a celebration, gathering,
ceremony, show, exhibition, concert, pageant, rally, demonstration, or assembly
of any kind, which is calculated to attract at any one time the physical
attendance of at least 100 individuals. This includes any event that is held in
or on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way, or is held on public or private
property which impacts adjacent streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way, to the
extent that closure may become necessary in order to assure the safety of
vehicular and/or pedestrian movement in the area. “Special Event” does not mean
a disorganized spontaneous gathering for the sole purpose of “Public Issue
Speech”.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.02 PERMITS AND AUTHORIZATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall advertise, engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start a special event unless a Special Events permit has been obtained from the
City of Lake Mary.
   (B)   The issuance of a special events permit from the city shall not
relieve any person from the duty to secure other permits or approvals as may be
required by the City Code to include, but not be limited to, a tent permit
fireworks permit a business tax receipt, street, lane or sidewalk use/closure,
for loud speaker or other sound amplification.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall have the duty and is hereby authorized to
invoke any necessary actions to abate an illegal event and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.03 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT.
   Any person seeking the issuance of a special events permit shall file an
application with the Office of the City Clerk on forms provided by the city,
except all government sponsored events shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (A)   Filing period. For single, non-recurring special events, an
application for a permit shall be filed not less than 60 calendar days before
the date and time at which it is proposed to commence; provided, however, that
the city may waive the minimum 60 day filing period and accept an application
filed within a shorter period if after due consideration of the date, time,
place and nature of the assembly, the anticipated number of participants, and
the city services which will be required in connection therewith, the affected
departments determine that such waiver will not present a hazard to the public
safety because of the reduced amount of time available within which to fully
process the application. The application shall be signed by the applicant and
the owner of the property where the event is to occur.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a permit shall set forth the following
information, and such other information as may from time to time reasonably be
required:
      (1)   The name and telephone number or other contact information of the
person seeking to conduct the event.
      (2)   If the event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and responsible heads of such organization.
      (3)   The name and telephone number of the individual person who will be
the event contact person and the person responsible for the conduct of the
event.
      (4)   The date when the event is to be conducted.
      (5)   The type of event, including a description of the activities which
will occur during the event.
      (6)   The hours when such event will start and terminate.
      (7)   A description of any and all recording equipment, sound
amplification equipment, or other attention-getting devices which will be
utilized in connection with the event.
      (8)   The approximate number of participants, not including spectators,
who will participate in the event.
      (9)   The approximate number of spectators who will be present at or near
the event.
      (10)   The exact location of the event and if the event involves the use
of streets, a list of the streets involved shall be provided.
      (11)   A designation of any public facilities or equipment proposed to be
utilized.
      (12)   Any required site plans as may be deemed necessary by the city,
including the plan for crowd control.
      (13)   If the applicant contends the event is a public issue speech
event, the applicant must file an affidavit to that effect.
      (14)   Applicant shall abide by
Chapter 155, Appendix I, Sign Code of the Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
      (15)   Applicant will indicate whether alcohol will be sold or provided
during the event.
      (16)   Applicant will be responsible for all clean up associated with the
event or reimbursement cost to the city as determined by staff.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   A non-refundable fee, as established by resolution, to cover the
administrative costs of processing the permit, shall be paid to the City of
Lake Mary by the person applying for the permit at the time of filing of the
application.
      (2)   If the application is for the use of any city property or if any
city services required for the event, the applicant shall pay, prior to the
issuance of the permit, the charges as determined by the affected department.
      (3)   The permit fee may be waived by the City Manager for a public issue
speech event if the permit fee would be so financially burdensome that it would
preclude the applicant from exercising First Amendment rights, and adequate
alternate channels of expression are not available. Within five calendar days
of a written request from the applicant to waive the fee, the City Manager
shall render a written decision on whether the fee shall be waived and shall
set forth the reasons for the decision.
   (D)   Notice to city officials. Immediately upon filing of the application
for a permit, the City Clerk shall send a copy of the application to all
departments for comment including:
      (1)   The Police Department/Code Enforcement.
      (2)   The Fire Department.
      (3)   The Director of Community Development.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works.
      (5)   The Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.04 ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROTECTION.
   (A)   The affected departments shall determine whether and to what extent
additional city staff reasonably will be necessary for the event for purposes
of traffic control and public safety. The decision shall be based on the type,
size, location, duration, time and date of the event, the number of streets and
intersections to be blocked and the need to detour or preempt ordinary citizen
travel and use of the streets and sidewalks, the need for parking, the demand
on emergency services and personnel, but not the content of the speech involved
in the special event. The applicant then shall have the duty to secure any
additional city staff deemed necessary by the affected departments at the sole
expense of the applicant who shall prepay the expenses of such protection.
   (B)   Public issue speech event. Persons exercising their First Amendment
rights by engaging in a public issue speech event shall not be required to pay
the costs of any police or fire protection provided by the city at the event.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.05 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING PERMIT.
   In granting any permit, the city shall specifically limit the permit as to
date and time, location, and the extent of the activity permitted. In addition,
the City Manager may attach conditions to the validity of any permit issued if
the conditions are, in the opinion of the city, reasonably necessary based on
the considerations listed under §
94.04. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   A change in size or extent of the proposed activity or of the date,
time or location from that requested.
   (B)   The barricading of streets or driveways and the provision of
identified monitors at such barricades.
   (C)   The posting of bond, cash deposit, or other security to cover any
damage to public property and the cost to the city of removing any temporary
structures not removed by the applicant.
   (D)   Limitations of the size, number and location of signs.
   (E)   Requirements reasonably necessary to ensure that the activity will not
create excessive noise or be conducted in an unsafe, unsanitary, or unsightly
manner.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.06 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Within ten days after receipt of the permit, the applicant and any
other persons, organizations, firms or corporations on whose behalf the
application is made shall sign a contract agreeing that they will jointly and
severally indemnify and hold the city harmless against liability, including
court costs and attorney's fees, and attorney's fees on appeal, for any and all
claims for damage to property, or injury to or death to persons, arising out of
or resulting from the issuance of the permit or the conduct of the special
event.
   (B)   The applicant may be required to provide insurance, as determined by
the City Manager, if the special event is expected to attract over 500 people.
In that case, the city shall be named as an additional insured.
   (C)   This section will not apply to public issue speech events.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.07 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   If the city denies the application, the applicant shall be promptly notified
in writing by the city and the notice shall set forth the reasons for the
denial of the permit.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.08 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the fees or denial of a permit
by immediately requesting review of the decision to the City Commission. The
appeal shall be filed by the applicant within five days after receipt of the
notice of denial by providing written notice to the City Clerk. The City
Commission shall consider the appeal at the next regularly scheduled meeting
following receipt of the notice of appeal.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a permit issued hereunder
instantly upon violation of any one or more of the conditions or standards for
issuance, or when a public emergency arises where the police/fire resources
required for that emergency are so great that deployment of police/fire
services for the event would have an immediate and adverse effect upon the
welfare and safety of persons or property.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present, or conduct any
special event without first obtaining all permits as herein provided. Any
person violating the provisions of any section of this chapter shall be
penalized as provided in §
94.09 of this Chapter and §
10.99 of the Code.
(Ord. 1463, passed 4-19-12)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORT
Section
   
95.00   Definitions
   
95.01   Florida Fire Prevention Code
   
95.02   Occupancy classification
   
95.03   Installation standards
   
95.04   Power to issue summons
   
95.05   Effective date
   
95.06   Emergency medical transport definitions
   
95.07   Emergency medical service rates
   
95.08   Collection of emergency medical fees
   
95.09   Financial hardship waiver of emergency medical fees
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.00 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACCESS BOX.” A key box used for emergency vehicles to gain access through
gates.
   “PIT.” A barbeque or fire pit constructed of non-combustible material for
outdoor domestic/non-commercial cooking or recreational purposes. Self-
constructed pits are permitted and shall be made of non-combustible material
and not exceed 8 feet in diameter.
   “SIREN OPERATED SYSTEM.” A system/ mechanism installed on gates to release
the lock and open upon activation of a siren from an emergency response vehicle
requiring access.
   “SUPERVISED.” Either: 1. An adult person safely maintaining a permitted fire
by being outside, in the vicinity and in constant view of the fire, or 2. An
alarm system that is connected to a fire sprinkler system to monitor and report
status and action.
(Ord. 962, passed 1-6-00; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed
6-20-02; Am. Ord. 1605, passed 1-17-19)
§ 95.01 FLORIDA FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Florida Fire Prevention Code, edition as adopted by the State Fire
Marshal’s Office, shall be the Fire Prevention Code of the city; subject to,
and providing however, that additional, stricter standards of performance as
follows shall control and govern actions and conduct within the city.
   (A)   Open Burning Regulations - Open burning is prohibited within the city
limits, as permitted by NFPA 1, Florida Fire Prevention Code. Types of
prohibited burning include land clearing for construction; open burning of
household trash and rubbish, building materials, furniture, hazardous
materials, on and off-site generated yard debris; and any other type of open
burning not listed under Exempt Fires.
      (1)   Exempt Fires. The following types of fires are permitted:
         (a)   Patio heaters, pit burning (as defined herein), burning in
commercially available outdoor devices such as chimneas or fire bowls not
exceeding 8 feet in diameter, or in a commercially available cooking device
with a grill or spit. This type of fire is only permitted for outdoor domestic/
non- commercial cooking or for recreational purposes.
         (b)   Burning by the Fire Department or the Florida Forest Service.
      (2)   Requirements for exempt fires/burning:
         (a)   No person shall kindle or maintain any fire unless it is a type
listed under §
95.01(A)(1).
         (b)   All permitted burning is limited to site-generated vegetative
matter such as leaves, grass clippings, small tree limbs, and other material
designed to be used in pits, outdoor fireplaces, grills, etc.
         (c)   Exempt Fires shall be located in a cleared area and at least 25
feet from brush or forest areas, structures of any kind, and vehicles.
         (d)   Burning to dispose of off-site generated material such as from a
residential/commercial landscaping business is not permitted.
         (e)   All authorized fires shall be supervised by a responsible person
at all times until such fire is completely extinguished. Such person shall have
a garden hose connected to the water supply, or other fire extinguishing
equipment readily available for use.
   Permitted/exempt fires shall not produce smoke in such quantities so that it
is offensive or creates a nuisance for nearby residents. On the substantiated
complaint of two or more persons, the fire shall be immediately extinguished.
If the person(s) responsible refuses to immediately extinguish said fire,
authorized representatives of the Fire Department in charge at the scene shall
have the power and authority to direct such operation as may be necessary to
extinguish or control any fire, or take any other action necessary in the
reasonable performance of their duty, and said person(s) shall be subject to
Chapter 37, Code Enforcement Citations.
   Authorized representatives in charge at the scene have the authority to
determine if conditions of the permitted/exempt fire are being met or if
conditions are creating a hazard to life or property. Any action necessary may
be taken to correct any violation.
      (3)   The Fire Chief or his/her designee has the authority to issue a
burn ban:
         (a)   For any type of outdoor fire when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
         (b)   For any person(s) who has been cited for violating the City of
Lake Mary Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Note the following addition to Florida Fire Prevention Code, NFPA 1 -
Access boxes (key or lock-boxes as they are commonly referred to) shall be
installed on all new structures that are required by this or other code to be
equipped with an automatic fire alarm and/or sprinkler system. The tamper
switch located in the lock-box shall be connected to the fire alarm control
panel for that building.
Exception (1): With a letter of understanding from the building owner, the lock
box may be connected/tied into the building security system if the existing
fire alarm panel does not have sufficient zone capacity. If at any time the
security system is disconnected, the fire alarm panel will be required to be
upgraded and the lock box connected to it.
Exception (2): The building owner may provide a “Release of Liability” letter
to the Fire Department if the existing fire alarm panel does not have
sufficient zone capacity and/or the structure is not equipped with a security
system. The letter shall state that the Fire Department will not be held liable
in any way if the lock box is tampered with, broken into or illegal entry is
made into structure by use of the keys in the lock box.
This amendment applies to all commercial occupancies. Failure to comply will
result in the penalty as set forth in §
95.99 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   For clarification purposes in dealing with the renovation of or
additions to existing buildings, when the renovated or added area(s) involves
or is equal to 50% or more of the appraised value of the structure, all
features of the existing construction shall be required to comply with the most
recently adopted editions of the fire and building codes for the entire
building.
   (D)   A permit from the Fire Department shall be required for the sale of
sparklers. Only those sparklers legal for use within the State of Florida as
defined by the State Fire Marshal’s Office, shall be permitted. Permits may be
revoked if weather conditions or local circumstances prohibit the use of such
sparklers by the public. Such permit may also be revoked for failure to comply
with the following requirements as set forth by the Fire Department and F.S. §
791:
      (1)   Any one person, firm, partnership or corporation engaging in the
retail sale of sparklers must provide a copy of the State Fire Marshal’s
approved list of sparklers for retail sale. Items on the list that will be
displayed for sale shall be highlighted and the list shall be available for
review by the Fire Department at any time. All items that are on display for
sale shall be on the State Fire Marshal’s approved list of sparklers and shall
match by name, brand and exact description as required by F.S. § 791. Only
items that are on the State Fire Marshal’s most recent, approved list of
sparklers will be permitted to be sold.
      (2)   Except as provided in F.S. §§ 791.02, 791.04, or 791.07, it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to offer for
sale, expose for sale or sell at retail any fireworks within the city.
      (3)   The law enforcement agency having jurisdiction has the authority to
close immediately any business that is selling fireworks or sparklers without
the appropriate state and local permits or any business in violation of any
portion of this ordinance.
   (E)   Fireworks displays may be permitted on a limited basis under the
following conditions.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from the Fire Department.
      (2)   Fireworks displays shall be in accordance with the provisions of
NFPA 1123 “Code for Fireworks Display.”
      (3)   All conditions of the permit must be satisfied, prior to the permit
application being submitted.
      (4)   Permit applications must be submitted a minimum of 45 calendar days
prior to the event.
      (5)   The permit fee shall be nonrefundable and nontransferable.
      (6)   No fireworks displays shall be permitted on private residential
property.
      (7)   Fireworks displays shall not create a noise problem associated with
surrounding activities and/or the time of the display.
      (8)   Approval or denial of said event and/or display shall be at the
sole discretion of the City.
   (F)   Special Details, including fire watch, standby fire protection and
rescue services, whether required or requested shall follow the Lake Mary Fire
Department Special Detail/Fire Watch General Order. No outside agency may be
used for such services unless city fire services are unavailable, and then such
use must be approved by the Fire Chief.
   (G)   Residential/commercial security/entry gates.
      (1)   Gates installed at the entrances to any residential subdivision/
complex or commercial occupancy in the city shall comply with the following
requirements for emergency vehicle access:
         (a)   Access code programmed into system as determined by the Fire
Chief.
         (b)   Equipped with the Siren Operated System.
         (c)   Access Box approved for use by the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal.
      (2)   A permit is required for all new gate installations and for any
alterations that affect the access operation of an existing gate. All gates
shall be tested by a Fire Department representative prior to placing in
service.
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 681, passed 1-20-94; Am. Ord. 757, passed
7-20-95; Am. Ord. 918, passed 3-18-99; Am. Ord. 962, passed 1-6-00; Am. Ord.
1050, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed 6-20-02; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 3-6-
03; Am. Ord. 1605, passed 1-17-19)
§ 95.02 OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION.
   Occupancies of buildings shall be as defined by the Florida Fire Prevention
Code.
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 918, passed 3-18-99; Am. Ord. 1050, passed
3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed 6-20-02)
§ 95.03 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The automatic fire protection extinguishing systems referred to in
this chapter shall be complete, fully automatic fire sprinkler systems
installed in accordance with the National Fire Protection Association's
pamphlet No. 13, 13D, or 13R as appropriate by the referenced standards. The
edition shall be determined by the Florida Fire Prevention Code. Automatic fire
protection extinguishing systems shall be required as follows:
   Throughout any building 5,000 square feet of gross floor area or larger.
   (B)   Supervision of sprinkler systems. All new buildings in which sprinkler
systems are required by these ordinances shall be installed and monitored by an
approved central station in accordance with NFPA 72-5-2. The "prime contractor"
as defined by NFA 72-1.4 who installs and/or monitors fire alarm equipment
shall possess a FC or FD certification as outlined by Underwriter's Laboratory
(UL).
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 918, passed 3-18-99; Am. Ord. 1050, passed
3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed 6-20-02)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.04 POWER TO ISSUE SUMMONS.
   Inspecting officers specifically empowered by the City Commission shall have
the power to serve a summons upon the person charged with the alleged
violations, or to post notice of violation at a place of violation. This power
shall be confined to the violations designated by the county judge and the laws
of this city and the state. The inspecting officers shall not be authorized to
arrest or otherwise take a violator into custody.
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed
6-20-02)
§ 95.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect pursuant to general law. All those builders/
developers who, on the effective date of this chapter, have not yet obtained
building permits, submitted plans for review or have allowed existing building
permits to expire for a structure shall be required to follow the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed
6-20-02)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06 EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRANSPORT DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§ 95.06 through 95.09, the following definitions shall
apply.
   "ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (ALS) LEVEL 1." The transportation by ground
ambulance vehicle and the provision of medically necessary supplies and
services, including the provision of an ALS assessment or at least one ALS
intervention.
   "ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (ALS) LEVEL 2."
      (1)   The transportation by ground ambulance vehicle and the provision of
medically necessary supplies and services, including at least three separate
administrations of one or more medications by intravenous push/bolus or by
continuous infusion (excluding crystalloid fluids); or
      (2)   Ground ambulance transport, medically necessary supplies and
services, and the provision of at least one of the ALS2 procedures listed
below:
         (a)   Manual defibrillation/ cardioversion;
         (b)   Endotracheal intubation;
         (c)   Central venous line;
         (d)   Cardiac pacing;
         (e)   Chest decompression;
         (f)   Surgical airway; or
         (g)   Intraosseous line.
   "BASIC LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES." The provision of treatment services rendered
to patients that do not require invasive techniques, including, but not limited
to, simple bandaging, minor splinting and simple immobilization, and
transportation to a hospital. Also defined in F.S. § 401.23.
(Ord. 1643, passed 6-17-21)
§ 95.07 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The service charges or fees for the provision of the following
emergency medical services are set by resolution:
      (1)   Basic life support transport fee;
      (2)   Advanced life support 1 transport fee;
      (3)   Advanced life support 2 transport fee; and
      (4)   Mileage fee (per mile).
   (B)   The City Manager may, at his or her discretion, adjust fees annually
pursuant to increases in the Consumer Price Index (C.P.I.).
(Ord. 1643, passed 6-17-21)
§ 95.08 COLLECTION OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL FEES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall utilize a billing agency to submit bills to
patients or to the patient's insurance carrier for the provision of basic life
support or advanced life support transportation.
   (B)   The city may collect delinquent charges through any and all available
legal remedies.
(Ord. 1643, passed 6-17-21)
§ 95.09 FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WAIVER OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL FEES.
   (A)   The city, through its billing agency, will seek reimbursement from
third-party payers, including, but not limited to, liability insurance,
automobile insurance, health care insurance, Medicare and Medicaid, to offset
EMS operational costs. For qualifying individuals, the City Manager or designee
may write off any or all balances remaining after receipt of third-party
payments.
   (B)   Hardship cases will be determined by the City Manager or designee
based on financial need, for applicants with incomes between 150% and 200% of
the current federal poverty guideline, based on a review of the number of
persons living in the household, the amount earned by the applicant, and the
applicant’s living expenses, assets and debts.
(Ord. 1643, passed 6-17-21)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of the Florida Fire Prevention Code, or
fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of the Florida Fire Prevention Code is committed, or continued, and
upon conviction of any violation, the person shall be punished within the
limits of and as provided by state law.
(Ord. 193, passed 6-21-84; Am. Ord. 1050, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1067, passed
6-20-02)
CHAPTER 96: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Duties of owner or lessee of premises
   
96.03   Alarm classified in report
   
96.04   Warning notice issued for excess false alarms; report from owner
   
96.05   Service fee
   
96.06   Certain false alarms not subject to service fee
   
96.07   Disconnection of alarm system for unpaid fees
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. A system designed to transmit a signal (audio or visual, recorded or
live) to the Police or Fire Departments indicating a predetermined condition
including, but not limited to, burglary alarm, fire alarm or robbery alarm. The
alarm is received either:
      (1)   Via telephone line to a designated position on an alarm panel.
      (2)   Via a private alarm service company relayed to the Police or Fire
Department telephone.
      (3)   Via an automated telephone alarm system, playing a recorded message
when received on the Police or Fire Department telephone.
      (4)   Via an audible/visual signal relayed to the Police or Fire
Department by a third party.
   BURGLARY ALARM. An alarm system designed to indicate an unauthorized entry,
forced entry, or attempted forced entry into a premise.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm, by any means, including, but not
limited to, a system test with no notification, which does not represent the
designated condition including, but not limited to, burglary alarm, fire alarm,
or robbery alarm.
   FIRE ALARM. An alarm system designated to indicate the presence of fire or
smoke.
   ROBBERY ALARM. An alarm system designed to indicate that a robbery or hold-
up is in progress or has taken place.
   TELEPHONE ALARM SYSTEM. Any alarm system which automatically transmits by
telephone line a recorded electronic or mechanical signal to a telephone
instrument at the Police or Fire Department. The system shall be totally
automated and require no relaying or action by a human being.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
§ 96.02 DUTIES OF OWNER OR LESSEE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Prior to the installation or substantial modification or use of an
alarm system which is defined in §
96.01, the owner or lessee of the premises shall furnish the Police and Fire
Departments with such information as the Departments deem necessary to provide
adequate response to the alarm. Newly installed or substantially modified
systems shall be allowed to operate for a period of 30 days from the date of
installation or modification without penalty for false alarms, provided the
Police and Fire Departments are notified of the installation or modification in
advance of same.
   (B)   The owner or lessee of any premises at which an alarm system is
installed shall register the installation with the Police Department and Fire
Department and shall be liable to the city for all service fees rendered for
false alarms pursuant to this chapter. Notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary herein contained, the owner or lessee of a premises which has an
unregistered alarm system shall be liable for a service fee commencing with the
first false alarm.
   (C)   Owners or lessees of any alarm system shall provide response to the
alarm location, when requested, in order to reset or disable the alarm system
within one hour of notification. Failure to provide the response may result in
a charge of $50 for each occurrence, payable to the city. The charge may be
waived in the discretion of the Chief of Police or the Fire Chief provided good
cause therefor shall have been promptly demonstrated to the appropriate Chief.
   (D)   The owner or lessee of every premises which utilizes an alarm system,
shall provide the Police Department, Fire Department and Alarm Monitoring
Company with a minimum of three current working telephone numbers of persons to
be notified in case of an emergency.
   (E)   All alarm systems having an audible or visual signal at the premises
shall be so equipped so as to automatically shut off the audible or visual
signal after 15 minutes. Those systems required by law to have a longer
operating period shall be equipped so as to automatically shut off the audible
or visual signal at the conclusion of the longer required operating time.
   (F)   Telephone alarm devices shall be so constructed or installed such as
to not seize or otherwise hold or preempt the telephone lines of the Police or
Fire Department.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 919, passed
3-18-99; Am. Ord. 1051, passed 3-21-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.03 ALARM CLASSIFIED IN REPORT.
   For each response by the Police Department or Fire Department to an alarm,
the Department will cause a report to be filed, classifying the alarm as one of
the following.
   (A)   False alarm or system test with no notification.
   (B)   Valid alarm for cause designated.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
§ 96.04 WARNING NOTICE ISSUED FOR EXCESS FALSE ALARMS; REPORT FROM OWNER.
   Upon the reception of a third false alarm within six months, the Police
Department or Fire Department shall issue a warning notice to the owner or
lessee or management of the premises involved. The owner or lessee or manager
shall file a written report with the Police Department or Fire Department
within five working days indicating any and all measures taken to reduce false
alarms.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.05 SERVICE FEE.
   There shall be a service fee charged by the city for false alarms according
to the following schedule.
   First response (none in the last 6 months), No fee
   Second response (within six months), No fee
   Third response (within six months), warning, No fee
   Fourth response and over (within six months), $50 fee, per response
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
§ 96.06 CERTAIN FALSE ALARMS NOT SUBJECT TO SERVICE FEE.
   If, within 30 days from the occurrence of a false alarm the owner or lessee
of the premises at which the alarm is installed can demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Police Chief or Fire Chief that the alarm system in
question has actually been examined by a repair service and repaired, if the
malfunction was the cause of the false alarm, or certified to be in good
working order, then providing the false alarm was not caused by human error, or
was the result of an act of God, the false alarm shall not be considered a
false alarm for the purpose of the assessment of a service fee.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
§ 96.07 DISCONNECTION OF ALARM SYSTEM FOR UNPAID FEES.
   (A)   Upon failure of an owner or lessee or manager of a premises to pay any
fee specified in this chapter within 30 days, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief
shall be authorized to disconnect or order the disconnection of the alarm
system from the Police and Fire Department. It shall be unlawful to reconnect
to or fail to disconnect the alarm system from the Police or Fire Department
unless and until appropriate corrective action has been taken and the
connection of an alarm system is authorized by the Chief of Police or Fire
Chief.
   (B)   Prior to any disconnection of any alarm system from the Police or Fire
Department, the owners or lessees of the system shall be notified of intent to
disconnect by personal service of the notice or by delivery of a certified mail
copy of the notice. Disconnection by the city shall not occur any sooner than
seven days following service of the notice.
   (C)   No disconnection or deactivation shall be ordered or made as to any
premises required by law to have an alarm system in operation.
   (D)   The owner, lessee, or manager shall be responsible for all costs
incurred in collecting the service fee including attorneys' fees.
   (E)   All fines and fees imposed under this chapter which remain unpaid for
a period of 30 days following imposition thereof may result in the recording of
an order imposing the fine in the public records and thereafter shall
constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists.
   (F)   Failure of the owner to correct malfunctions or pay such service fees
as applicable will result in the Police or Fire Departments not being required
to respond to the alarm location.
(Ord. 219, passed 4-18-85; Am. Ord. 659, passed 9-19-93; Am. Ord. 1051, passed
3-21-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
   (G)   The Fire Official or his/her designee shall have the authority to
prohibit occupancy of any commercial or multi-family residential structure for
which disconnection of the required fire alarm or sprinkler system has occurred
or has been ordered. Such prohibition shall be by certified letter or hand
delivered to the owner or manager of the building. Occupancy of such building
shall be prohibited until the Fire Official or his/her designee determines that
appropriate corrective action has been taken.
(Ord. 919, passed 3-18-99; Am. Ord. 1051, passed 3-21-02)
CHAPTER 97: COMMUNICATIONS RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
97.01   Title
   
97.02   Intent and purpose
   
97.03   Definitions
   
97.04   General prohibitions
   
97.05   Registration for placing or maintaining communications facilities in
public rights-of-way
   
97.06   Permit required
   
97.07   Pre-application conference
   
97.08   Consolidated permit application
   
97.09   Permits other than pursuant to applications
   
97.10   General conditions
   
97.11   Placement of new utility poles or wireless support structure
   
97.12   Wireless facilities allowed in public rights-of-way
   
97.13   Statutory requirements for wireless facilities
   
97.14   Design standards for wireless facilities
   
97.15   Notice of transfer, sale or assignment of assets in public rights-of-
way
   
97.16   Existing and replacement utility poles for wireless facilities
   
97.17   Revocation or suspension of permits
   
97.18   Design, placement and collocation standards
   
97.19   Appeals and exhaustion of administrative remedies
   
97.20   Involuntary termination of registration
   
97.21   Existing communications facilities in public rights-of-way
   
97.22   Insurance
   
97.23   Indemnification
   
97.24   Construction bond
   
97.25   Enforcement remedies
   
97.26   Abandonment of a communications facility
   
97.27   Force majeure
   
97.28   Fees applicable to those not subject to communications services tax
   
97.29   Reservation of rights and remedies
   
97.30   Special provisions for certain eligible facilities modifications
   
97.31   Compliance with state and federal regulations; preemption
   
97.32   Permanent performance bond
§ 97.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Lake Mary
Communications Rights-of-Way Ordinance.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the city to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare by: providing for the placement or maintenance of
communications facilities in the public rights-of-way within the city; adopting
and administering reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with state
and federal law, including F.S. § 337.401, as it may be amended, the city’s
home rule authority, and in accordance with the provisions of the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996 and other federal and state law; establishing
reasonable rules and regulations necessary to manage the placement or
maintenance of communications facilities in the public rights-of-way by all
communications services providers; and minimizing disruption to the public
rights-of- way. In regulating its public rights-of-way, the city shall be
governed by and shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws. These
regulations are specifically subject to state and federal law limitations.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given. Where not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and
"may" is permissive. Words not otherwise defined shall be construed to mean the
common and ordinary meaning.
   “ABANDONMENT.” The permanent cessation of all uses of a communications
facility; provided that this term shall not include cessation of all use of a
facility within a physical structure where the physical structure continues to
be used. By way of example and not limitation, cessation of all use of a cable
within a conduit, where the conduit continues to be used, shall not be
“ABANDONMENT” of a facility in public rights-of-way.
   “ANTENNA.” Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services or
other communications services.
   “APPLICABLE CODES.” Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes enacted solely to address threats of destruction of
property or injury to persons, and includes the National Electric Safety Code
and the 2017 edition of the Florida Department of Transportation Utility
Accommodation Manual.
      (1)   The term includes objective design standards adopted by ordinance
that may require a new utility pole that replaces an existing utility pole to
be of substantially similar design, material, and color or that may require
reasonable spacing requirements concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment.
      (2)   The term includes objective design standards adopted by ordinance
that may require a small wireless facility to meet reasonable location context,
color, stealth, and concealment requirements; however, such design standards
may be waived by the city upon a showing that the design standards are not
reasonably compatible for the particular location of a small wireless facility
or that the design standards impose an excessive expense. The waiver shall be
granted or denied within 45 days after the date of the request (F.S. § 337.401
(7)(r)).
      (3)   The term includes objective design standards adopted by ordinance
that may require a new utility pole used to support a small wireless facility
to meet reasonable location context, color and material of the predominant
utility pole type at the proposed located of the new utility pole.
   “BASE STATION.”
      (1)   A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a communication tower as
defined in
Chapter 154 , or any equipment associated with a tower. “BASE STATION”
includes, without limitation:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications services such
as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul;
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration (including distributed antenna systems (DAS) and
small-cell networks);
         (c)   Any structure other than a tower that, at the time the relevant
application is filed with the city under this chapter, supports or houses
equipment described in divisions (1)(a) and (b) of this definition that has
been reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or siting process, or
under another state or local regulatory review process, even if the structure
was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing that support.
      (2)   The term does not include any structure that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the city under this chapter, does not
support or house equipment described in subsections (1)(a) and (b) of this
definition.
   “CITY.” Lake Mary, Florida.
   “CITY UTILITY POLE.” A utility pole owned by the city in the public rights-
of-way.
   “COLLOCATE” or “COLLOCATION.” To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace one or more wireless communication facilities on, under, within, or
adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility pole. The term does not
include the installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure in
the public rights-of-way. (F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)7).
   “COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY” or “FACILITY” or “SYSTEM.” Any permanent or
temporary plant, equipment and property, including but not limited to cables,
wires, conduits, ducts, fiber optics, poles, antennae, converters, splice
boxes, cabinets, hand holes, manholes, vaults, drains, surface location
markers, appurtenances, and other equipment or pathway placed or maintained or
to be placed or maintained in the public rights-of-way of the city and used or
capable of being used to transmit, convey, route, receive, distribute, provide
or offer communications services. For the purposes of this chapter, the term
shall include wireless communication facility or wireless communication
facilities.
   “COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.” Shall have the definition ascribed thereto in
F.S. § 202.11(1), as may be amended, and also includes, but is not limited to
wireless services, as defined herein.
   “COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES PROVIDER.” Any person including a municipality or
county providing communications services through the placement or maintenance
of a communications facility in public rights-of-way. “COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
PROVIDER” shall also include any person including a municipality or county that
places or maintains a communications facility in public rights-of-way but does
not provide communications services.
   “DEALER.” Any person, municipality or county providing communications
services to an end user in the city through the use and operation of
communications facilities installed, placed and maintained in the public
rights-of-way, whether owner or leased, and who has registered with the Florida
Department of Revenue as a provider of communications services pursuant to F.S.
Chapter 202. This definition of “DEALER” is intended to include any reseller.
   “ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST.” Any request for modification of an existing
tower or base station in the public rights-of-way that, in accordance with the
definitions contained in FCC regulations codified at 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001, does
not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing structure and
is requesting:
      (1)   Collocation of new transmission equipment;
      (2)   Removal of existing transmission equipment; or
      (3)   Replacement of existing transmission equipment.
   “FCC.” The Federal Communications Commission.
   “IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY” or “IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.” In, on, over,
under or across the public rights-of-way.
   “MACRO WIRELESS FACILITY.” A large wireless communication facility that
provides radio frequency coverage for a personal wireless service. Generally,
macro cell antennas are mounted on ground-based towers, rooftops and other
existing structures, at a height that provides a clear view over the
surrounding buildings and terrain. Macro cell facilities typically contain
antennas that are greater than three cubic feet per antenna and typically cover
large geographic areas with relatively high capacity and may be capable of
hosting multiple wireless service providers.
   “MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY.” A small wireless facility having dimensions no
larger than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   “PASS-THROUGH FACILITIES.” The facilities for a communications system that
merely pass through the city from one point to another point and from which no
revenues are directly attributable to subscribers or other carriers within the
city.
   “PASS-THROUGH PROVIDER.” Any person who places or maintains a communications
facility in the roads or rights-of- way of a municipality or county that levies
a tax pursuant to F.S. Chapter 202 and who does not remit taxes imposed by that
municipality or county pursuant to F.S. Chapter 202.
   “PERMIT.” A communications rights-of- way utilization permit required
pursuant to § 97.06 prior to commencement of any placement or maintenance of
facilities within the public rights-of-way.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, children, firm, association, joint venture,
partnership, estate, trust, business trust, syndicate, fiduciary, corporation,
organization or legal entity of any kind, successor, assignee, transferee,
personal representative, and all other groups or combinations, and shall
include the city only to the extent the city acts as a communications services
provider.
   “PLACE OR MAINTAIN” or “PLACEMENT OR MAINTENANCE” or “PLACING OR
MAINTAINING.” To erect, construct, install, maintain, place, repair, extend,
expand, remove, occupy, locate or relocate. A communications services provider
that owns or exercises physical control over communications facilities in
public rights-of-way, such as the physical control to maintain and repair, is
“PLACING OR MAINTAINING” the facilities. A person providing service only
through resale or only through use of a third party's unbundled network
elements is not “PLACING OR MAINTAINING” the communications facilities through
which such service is provided. The transmission and receipt of radio frequency
signals through the airspace of the public rights- of-way does not constitute
“PLACING OR MAINTAINING” facilities in the public rights- of-way.
   “PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY” or “RIGHTS-OF-WAY.” Land in which the city owns the
fee or has an easement devoted to or required for use as a transportation
facility and may lawfully grant access pursuant to applicable law, and includes
the surface, the air space over the surface and the area below the surface of
such “RIGHT-OF-WAY.”
   “RECORD DRAWINGS.” A final and complete drawing accurately depicting the
improvements as constructed. Record drawings are not required to be signed and
sealed by a professional surveyor and mapper.
   “REGISTRANT.” A communications services provider that has registered with
the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   “REGISTRATION” or “REGISTER.” The process described in this chapter whereby
a communications services provider provides certain information to the city.
   “REPURPOSED STRUCTURE.” An existing structure that has been renovated,
reconfigured, or replaced with a similar structure so as to continue serving
its primary existing purpose while also supporting the attachment of
communications facilities, through stealth design or otherwise, that is
approximately in the same location as the existing structure and in such a
manner that does not result in a net increase in the number of structures
located within the public rights-of-way and does not interfere with pedestrian
or vehicular access, and is compliant with applicable codes. To “REPURPOSE AN
EXISTING STRUCTURE” shall mean the act of renovating, reconfiguring or
replacing an existing structure as described above.
   “RESELLER.” Any person providing communications services within the city
over a communications system, or portion thereof, for which a separate charge
is made, where that person does not place or maintain, nor own or control, any
of the underlying facilities in the public rights-of-way by either
interconnecting with the facilities of a communications services provider
utilizing the public rights-of-way or by leasing excess capacity from a
facility-based communications services provider.
   “SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.” A wireless communication facility that meets the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna associated with the facility is located inside an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of antennas
that have exposed elements, each antenna and all of its exposed elements could
fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switches,
cutoff switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services, and utility poles or other support structures.
   “STEALTH DESIGN.” A method of camouflaging any tower, antenna or other
communications facility, including, but not limited to, supporting electrical
or mechanical equipment, which is designed to enhance compatibility with
adjacent land uses and be as visually unobtrusive as possible. “STEALTH DESIGN”
may include a repurposed structure or a wrap.
   “SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD.” The area within a 500-foot radius of a
communications facility site or proposed communications facility site.
   “TRANSPORTATION FACILITY.” Any means for the transportation of people or
property from place to place which is constructed, operated, or maintained in
whole or in part from public funds. Public rights-of-way or rights-of-way shall
not include: (1) county, state, or federal rights-of-way unless those rights-
of-way are within the unincorporated boundaries of the city over which the
county, state or federal government has jurisdiction and authority under the
Florida Transportation Code, Chapter 334, as amended, and where the county or
state or both have delegated to the city the authority to regulate the
registration, permitting, placement, installation, and maintenance of
communications facilities; (2) platted utility easements that are not part of a
dedicated public right-of-way; (3) property owned by any person other than the
city; (4) service entrances or driveways leading from the road or street onto
adjacent property; or (5) any real or personal city property except as
described above and shall not include city buildings, fixtures, poles,
conduits, facilities or other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
they are situated in the public rights-of- way.
   “UTILITY POLE.” A pole or other similar structure that is used in whole or
part to provide communication services or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, signage, or a similar function. The term includes the vertical
support structure for traffic lights but does not include a horizontal
structure to which signal lights or other traffic control devices are attached
and does not include a pole or similar structure 15 feet in height or less
unless the city grants a waiver for the pole. The term does not include a
“UTILITY POLE” owned by the city. This definition does not include electric
transmission poles. For purposes of these regulations, “UTILITY POLES” shall be
classified as the following types:
      (1)   “EXISTING UTILITY POLE.” A “UTILITY POLE” within the rights- of-way
that exists at the time an application to place attachments on that “UTILITY
POLE,” such as a communications facility, is filed with the city.
      (2)   “NEW UTILITY POLE.” A “UTILITY POLE” that does not exist within the
rights-of-way at the time an application to place a communications facility on
that “UTILITY POLE” is filed with the city, is proposed to be installed to
support the proposed communications facility, and is not a replacement “UTILITY
POLE.”
      (3)   “REPLACEMENT UTILITY POLE.” An existing “UTILITY POLE” that has
been renovated, reconfigured, or replaced with a similar structure so as to
continue serving its primary existing purpose while also supporting the
attachment of communications facilities that is approximately in the same
location and serving the same function(s) as the existing structure and in such
a manner that does not result in a net increase in the number of “UTILITY
POLES” located within the public rights-of-way, does not interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular access and complies with applicable codes. The
replacement “UTILITY POLE” remains the property of the owner of the existing
structure prior to the repurposing, unless ownership otherwise lawfully
changes.
   “WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.” Any equipment at a fixed location which
enables wireless communications between user equipment and a communications
network, including radio transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial, or fiber-optic
cable or other cables, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration, and equipment associated
with wireless communications. The term includes small wireless facilities. The
term does not include: (a) the structure or improvements on, under, within, or
adjacent to the structure on which the equipment is collocated; (b) wireline
backhaul facilities; or (c) coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between
wireless structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   “WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER.” A person who has been certificated under
F.S. Chapter 364 to provide telecommunications service or under F.S. Chapter
610 to provide cable or video services in this state, or that person's
affiliate, and who builds or installs wireless communication transmission
equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support structures but is not a
wireless services provider.
   “WIRELESS PROVIDER.” A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
   “WIRELESS SERVICES.” Any services provided using licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, using wireless communication
facilities.
   “WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER.” A person who provides wireless services.
   “WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.” A freestanding structure, such as a monopole,
a guyed or self-supporting tower, or another existing or proposed structure
designed to support or cable of supporting wireless communication facilities.
The term does not include a utility pole, pedestal, or other support structure
for ground-based equipment not mounted on a utility pole and less than five
feet in height.
   “WRAP.” An aesthetic covering depicting scenic imagery, such as vegetation,
which blends with the surrounding area.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.04 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Wireless communication facilities, other than small wireless
facilities and micro wireless facilities, are prohibited within the public
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Wireless communication facilities are prohibited within the public
rights-of-way of roadways and railways under the jurisdiction and control of
the Florida Department of Transportation unless approved in writing by the
Florida Department of Transportation and, pursuant to any permit delegation
agreement, the city.
   (C)   Wireless communication facilities are prohibited on arms used to
support or mount traffic control signals and warning signals and on arms
attached to utility poles.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.05 REGISTRATION FOR PLACING OR MAINTAINING COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Every communications services provider that desires to place or
maintain a communications system or any communication facilities in the public
rights-of-way, including pass-through facilities, shall first register with the
city in accordance with this chapter. A single registration with the city shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Name of the registrant under which it will transact business in the
city and, if different, in the State of Florida;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of a contact person for the
registrant;
      (3)   The number of the registrant's current certificate of authorization
issued by the Florida Public Service Commission, the Federal Communications
Commission, or the Department of State;
      (4)   A statement of whether the registrant is a pass-through provider as
defined in F.S. § 337.401(6)(a)1;
      (5)   The registrant's federal employer identification number; and
      (6)   Any required proof of insurance or self-insurance adequate to
defend and cover claims.
   (B)   The city shall review the information submitted by the applicant. Such
review shall be by the City Manager or his or her designee. If the applicant
submits information in accordance with division (A) above, the registration
shall be effective and the city shall notify the applicant of the effectiveness
of registration in writing. If the city determines that the information has not
been submitted in accordance with division (A)(1) above, the city shall notify
the applicant of the non-effectiveness of registration, and reasons for the
non- effectiveness, in writing. The city shall so reply to an applicant within
30 days after receipt of registration information from the applicant. Non-
effectiveness of registration shall not preclude an applicant from filing
subsequent applications for registration under the provisions of this section.
An applicant has 30 days after receipt of a notice of non-effectiveness of
registration to appeal the decision as provided in §
97.19.
   (C)   An effective registration shall not convey any title, equitable or
legal, to the registrant in the public rights-of-way. Registration under this
chapter governs only the placement or maintenance of communications facilities
in public rights-of-way. Other ordinances, codes or regulations may apply to
the placement or maintenance in the public rights-of- way of facilities that
are not communications facilities. Registration does not excuse a
communications services provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole
attachment agreements before locating its facilities on the city or another
person's facilities. Registration does not excuse a communications services
provider from complying with all applicable city ordinances, codes or
regulations, including this chapter.
   (D)   Registration application fees. No registration application fees shall
be imposed for registration under this chapter.
   (E)   A registrant may cancel a registration upon written notice to the city
stating that it will no longer place or maintain any communications facilities
in public rights-of-way within the city and will no longer need to obtain
permits to perform work in public rights-of-way. A registrant cannot cancel a
registration if the registrant continues to place or maintain any
communications facilities in public rights-of- way.
   (F)   Registration does not in and of itself establish a right to place or
maintain or priority for the placement or maintenance of a communications
facility in public rights-of-way within the city but shall establish for the
registrant a right to apply for a permit, if permitting is required by the
city. Registrations are expressly subject to any future amendment to or
replacement of this chapter and further subject to any additional city
ordinances, as well as any state or federal laws that may be enacted.
Registration does not excuse or exempt a communications services provider from
having to obtain a local business tax receipt, if required, from the city in
accordance with the City Code.
   (G)   A registrant shall renew its registration with the city no sooner than
five years from the date registration is granted and every five years
thereafter in accordance with the registration requirements in this chapter.
Within 90 days of any change in the information required to be submitted
pursuant to division (A), a registrant shall provide updated information to the
city. If no information in the then-existing registration has changed, the
renewal may state that no information has changed. Failure to renew a
registration may result in the city restricting the issuance of additional
permits until the communications services provider has complied with the
registration requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   In accordance with applicable city ordinances, codes or regulations, a
communications rights-of-way permit shall be required of a communications
services provider that desires to place or maintain a communications facility
in public rights-of-way. An effective registration shall be a condition of
obtaining such permit. Notwithstanding an effective registration, permitting
requirements shall apply. Subject to the terms and conditions prescribed in
this chapter, a registrant may apply for a permit to place or maintain a
communications facility in public rights-of-way.
   (I)   A reseller, which by definition does not place or maintain
communications facilities in the public rights-of-way, is not required to
register with the city.
   (J)   Facilities outside of city public rights-of-way. To the extent not
inconsistent with applicable law, registrants shall provide a copy to the City
Manager of a request or application for a permit submitted to the Florida
Department of Transportation or Seminole County, to place or to maintain a
communications facility below grade, or to install a small wireless facility at
grade or a new utility pole for collocation of a small wireless facility, in a
location within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city. The intent of this
provision is to provide the city with notice of construction of facilities that
may impact city utilities or otherwise be subject to requirements of the City
Code. This requirement does not apply to an application for a permit to
collocate a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole. Failure to
comply with this requirement may result in revocation of a registration, denial
of permits including, but not limited to ancillary permits, or other
enforcement remedies consistent with the City Code. Nothing herein shall
restrict the city from enforcing its code with respect to facilities located
outside of the city's public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Communications rights-of-way permit required. A communications
services provider shall not commence to place or maintain a communications
facility in public rights-of-way until all applicable permits, including, but
not limited to, a communications rights-of-way permit, have been issued by the
city or other appropriate authority, except in the case of an emergency, or as
otherwise provided in division (I) below. The term “EMERGENCY” shall mean a
condition that affects the public's health, safety or welfare, which includes
an unplanned out-of-service condition of a pre- existing service. The
communications services provider shall provide prompt notice to the city of the
placement or maintenance of a communications facility in the public rights-of-
way in the event of an emergency and shall obtain an after-the-fact permit
within 30 days if a permit would have originally been required to perform the
work undertaken in public rights-of- way in connection with the emergency. The
communications services provider acknowledges that as a condition of granting
such permits, the city may impose reasonable rules or regulations governing the
placement or maintenance of a communications facility in public rights-of-way.
Permits shall apply only to the areas of public rights-of-way specifically
identified in the permit.
   (B)   Application requirements. Except as otherwise provided by applicable
law, permit applications to place or maintain a communications system or
facility in the public rights-of-way shall contain the following:
      (1)   Site plan. A site plan, in the form of signed and sealed plans from
a Florida licensed professional engineer of record, or prepared by a person who
is exempt from such registration requirements as provided in F.S. § 471.003
that show the location of the proposed facility, in a hard copy format and
electronic format as specified by the City Engineer. The site plan shall also
include:
         (a)   A description of the facilities to be installed, where the
facilities are to be located, and the size, dimensions and height of the
proposed facilities;
         (b)   Sufficient specificity as to demonstrate compliance with the
Florida Building Code, specifically in terms of compliance with ASCE 7-10, or
latest edition for requirements of wind load;
         (c)   For new communication facility poles, wireless support
structures, or any excavation work, a geotechnical report for the existing soil
conditions, or a soil statement by a Florida licensed professional engineer,
attesting to the soil conditions.
      (2)   Description of installation or construction to include:
         (a)   A description of the type of facility and the manner in which
the facility will be installed and/or modified (i.e. anticipated construction
methods or techniques); and
         (b)   A description of stealth design to be utilized as detailed in §§
97.14 and
97.16. Additionally, each application for a permit to place a communications
facility pole or a wireless support structure in the public rights-of- way
shall include photographs showing the location and condition of existing
facilities within a 50-foot radius, and a description of the stealth design
techniques proposed to minimize the visual impact of the communications
facility pole or wireless support structure and graphic depictions accurately
representing the visual impact of the communications facility pole or wireless
support structure when viewed from the street and from adjacent properties.
         (c)   Alternatively, a signed and sealed statement from a Florida
state licensed professional engineer that some type of reasonable camouflage
required in §§
97.14 and
97.16 cannot be utilized on any particular facility and documentation
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the City Engineer that the proposed
communications facility cannot employ reasonable camouflage and the proposed
exterior location and configuration of equipment are the minimum equipment
necessary to achieve the needed function, except where in violation of F.S. §
337.401(7)(r). For small wireless facilities, reasonable camouflage is
described in §§
97.14 and
97.16.
      (3)   A temporary sidewalk closure plan, if appropriate given the
facility proposed, to accommodate placement or maintenance of the
communications facility;
      (4)   A temporary traffic lane closure and management of traffic (MOT)
plan, if appropriate, given the facility proposed, to accommodate installation
and/or modification of the communications facility;
      (5)   Information, on the capacity of the public rights-of-way to
accommodate the cumulative impact of (a) the proposed facility together with
(b) other existing and proposed facilities in the adjacent public rights-of-
way, if available (such information shall be provided without certification as
to correctness, to the extent obtained from other persons). (If a wireless
communication facility, only information necessary to avoid interference with
existing at-grade or aerial facilities located at the proposed location.);
      (6)   Based on the facility proposed, a restoration plan and an estimate
of the cost of restoration of the public rights-of- way;
      (7)   The timetable for placement or maintenance of the proposed facility
or each phase of the placement or maintenance thereof;
      (8)   For project permits that involve multiple collocations or
attachments to existing structures, repurposed structures or installation of
multiple new wireless support structures, the applicant shall only be required
to provide a structural certification by a Florida licensed professional
engineer or by a person who is exempt from such registration requirements as
provided in F.S. § 471.003 as to each type of facility, not for each facility
proposed as part of the overall project. No such certification is required with
respect to wireline pole attachment installations made in the communications
space of utility poles;
      (9)   In order to assess the impacts on the public rights-of-way
resources and the potential for collocations or use of repurposed structures,
identification of all aerial and at grade communications facility poles and
wireless support structures in the public rights- of-way within a 50-foot
radius of the proposed new communications facility (such information may be
produced without certification as to correctness to the extent obtained from
other registrants with facilities in the public rights-of- way). No such
identification is required with respect to wireline pole attachment
installations made in the communications space of utility poles or for small
wireless facilities;
      (10)   In order to assess the impacts on the public right-of-way
resources, the impact on surrounding neighborhoods and other properties within
the permit area, and the potential for collocations or use of existing
structures, identification of all above-grade structures in the public right-
of-way within a 50- foot radius of the proposed new communications facility
(including utility poles, equipment boxes, above-grade communications service
facilities and antennae) shall be provided (such information may be produced
without certification as to correctness to the extent obtained from other
registrants with facilities in the public rights-of-way), as necessary to avoid
interference with other at-grade or aerial facilities located with 50 feet of
the exact location of the small wireless facility. No such identification is
required with respect to wireline pole attachment installations made in the
communications space of utility poles or for small wireless facility
installations;
      (11)   Affidavits.
         (a)   An application for collocation shall, if applicable, include a
copy of the agreement with the structure owner showing that the applicant has
permission from the owner of the facility or existing structure being
collocated upon that the applicant has been granted permission to attach to the
facility or existing structure.
         (b)   An application from a wireless infrastructure provider to place
a new utility pole in the public rights-of-way to support the collocation of
small wireless facilities shall include an attestation that small wireless
facilities will be collocated on the utility pole or structure and will be used
by a wireless services provider to provide service within nine months after the
date the application is approved. The wireless infrastructure provider shall
use its best efforts to individually notify all adjacent property owners
affected by the proposed construction prior to the commencement of that work.
Such notification shall not be required for emergencies requiring immediate
repairs.
         (c)   An application for collocation of a small wireless facility on a
new utility pole need not include a demonstration that collocation of a small
wireless facility on an existing structure is not legally or technically
possible, except as provided in F.S. § 337.401(7)(i)1 regarding undergrounding.
      (12)   Registrant agrees to indemnification. A statement shall be
included within the application for a permit that by execution of the
application and by applying for the permit, the registrant agrees to be bound
to the city with respect to the indemnification provisions set forth in §
97.23 as though such indemnification provisions are set forth verbatim in the
permit application;
      (13)   Additional information as reasonably required for review of permit
application. Except for small wireless facilities, such additional information
as the City Engineer finds reasonably necessary with respect to the placement
or maintenance of the communications facility that is the subject of the permit
application to review such permit application, which information may include,
but is not necessarily limited to: (a) evidence satisfactory to the City
Engineer that the proposed facility will not pose a risk of explosion, fire, or
other danger to life or property due to its proximity to volatile, flammable,
explosive or other dangerous chemicals; and (b) a written statement from a
qualified radio frequency engineer that the construction and placement of the
proposed facility will not interfere with public safety communications and the
usual and customary transmission or reception of radio, television, or other
communications services enjoyed by adjacent properties;
      (14)   Collocation application requirements. An applicant seeking to
collocate small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the city may, at
the applicant's discretion, file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to 30 small wireless facilities. If the
application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the city may
separately address small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been received or which are denied (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)10).
Applications involving the installation of a new (not replacement) utility pole
are not eligible to be included in a consolidated application for collocations.
   (C)   Revised plans. If the plans or drawings submitted showing the proposed
location for installation of the facility in the public rights- of-way require
revision for any reason prior to commencing construction, the communications
services provider shall promptly submit revised plans and drawings to the City
Engineer.
   (D)   Communications services tax in lieu of permit fee. A registrant that
places or maintains communications facilities in the public rights-of-way and
that pays communications services taxes shall not be required to pay a permit
fee since the city has elected to collect the communications services tax
pursuant to F.S. Chapter 202, as may be amended from time to time. Pass-through
providers shall pay a fee pursuant to F.S. § 337.401(5), as may be amended from
time to time, and §
97.26.
   (E)   Factors considered in granting permit. In addition to any applicable
requirements or standards imposed by this chapter, the city engineer shall
consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a permit to a
registrant for the placement or maintenance of a communications facility within
the public rights-of-way:
      (1)   The sufficiency of space to accommodate all of the present and
pending applications to place communications facilities and pending or planned
applications to place and maintain facilities in that area of the public
rights-of-way;
      (2)   The sufficiency of space to accommodate city plans for public
improvements or projects adopted as part of its community investment capital
improvements plan that the city determines in the best interest of the public;
      (3)   The impact on traffic and traffic safety;
      (4)   The proximity to and/or interference with other private or public
uses within or outside the public rights-of-way, including, but not limited to,
utilities, easements, traffic control devices, and other uses;
      (5)   Compliance with the objective design standards set forth in F.S. §
337.401(7)(r), found in §§
97.14 and
97.16;
      (6)   Proposed ingress and egress (where applicable);
      (7)   Undergrounding as discussed in §
97.10.
   (F)   Permit review process. The city shall accept applications for permits
and shall process and issue permits for the placement or maintenance of a
communications system or facility in the public rights-of-way subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Within 14 days after the date of receiving the application, the
city shall determine and notify the applicant by electronic mail to the email
address provided in the application as to whether the application is complete.
If an application is deemed incomplete, the city shall specifically identify
the missing information. An application is deemed complete if the city does not
provide notification to the applicant within 14 days.
      (2)   The alternative location negotiation process in this division (F)
shall apply to applications for collocation (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)).
         (a)   The city may not limit the placement of small wireless
facilities, utility poles on which small wireless facilities are or will be
collocated, or other at-grade communications facilities, by minimum separation
distances. However, within 14 days after the date of filing the application for
collocation, the city may request that the proposed location of a small
wireless facility be moved to another location in the right-of-way and placed
on an alternative city utility pole or support structure or placed on a new
utility pole.
            1.   The city and the applicant may negotiate the alternative
location, including any objective design standards and reasonable spacing
requirements for ground-based equipment, for 30 days after the date of the
request.
            2.   At the conclusion of the negotiation period, if the
alternative location is accepted by the applicant, the applicant must notify
the city of such acceptance and the application shall be deemed granted for any
new location for which there is agreement and all other locations in the
application. If an agreement is not reached, the applicant must notify the city
of such nonagreement and the city must grant or deny the original application
within 90 days after the date the application was filed.
            3.   A request for an alternative location, an acceptance of an
alternative location, or a rejection of an alternative location must be in
writing and provided by electronic mail (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)4).
         (b)   In order for the application to be deemed granted, the
application shall have demonstrated that it complies with the applicable codes
and design standards, as well as the regulations for the placement and
maintenance of new utility poles in the public rights-of-way, if applicable,
and as negotiated between the parties.
         (c)   In addition to the alternatives described in this division, the
city may request that the proposed collocation of a small wireless facility be
moved to another location in the right-of-way and placed on an alternative non-
city-owned existing utility pole, or suggest other solutions for an
application. However, the application shall continue on the standard review
timeframe described in §
97.05 unless the applicant requests or agrees to utilize the alternative
location negotiation process provided in this section. Such a request or
agreement must be in writing and provided to the city by electronic mail.
      (3)   If an applicant seeks to place or collocate a small wireless
facility, the city may, within 14 days after the date of filing the
application, request that the proposed location of a small wireless facility be
moved to another location in the right-of-way and placed on an alternative city
utility pole or support structure or may place a new utility pole. The city and
the applicant may negotiate the alternative location, including any objective
design standards and reasonable spacing requirements for ground-based
equipment, for 30 days after the date of the request. At the conclusion of the
negotiation period, if the alternative location is accepted by the applicant,
the applicant must notify the city of such acceptance and the application shall
be deemed granted for any new location for which there is agreement and all
other locations in the application. If an agreement is not reached, the
applicant must notify the city of such nonagreement and the city must grant or
deny the original application within 90 days after the date the application was
filed. A request for an alternative location, an acceptance of an alternative
location, or a rejection of an alternative location must be in writing and
provided by electronic mail. If the city does not use the 30-day negotiation
period provided herein regarding collocation alternatives, the parties may
mutually agree to extend the 60-day application review period. The city shall
grant or deny the application at the end of the extended period.
      (4)   Except as extended by the 30-day negotiation period provided in
division (3) above, if the city fails to approve or deny a complete application
within 60 days after receipt of the application, the application is deemed
approved. The application review period may be extended upon mutual agreement
by the parties.
      (5)   A permit issued pursuant to an approved application shall remain
effective for one year unless extended by the city.
      (6)   The city shall notify the applicant of approval or denial by
electronic mail. The city shall approve a complete application unless it does
not meet the applicable provisions of this chapter. If the application is
denied, the city shall specify in writing the basis for denial, including the
specific code provisions on which the denial is based, and shall send the
documentation to the applicant by electronic mail on the day the city denies
the application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the application within 30 days after notice of the denial is sent
to the applicant. Failure by the applicant to timely resubmit the application
shall result in a final denial of the application. The city shall approve or
deny a timely filed revised application within 30 days after receipt or the
application is deemed approved. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial.
   (G)   Consolidated collocation application. An applicant seeking to
collocate small wireless facilities within the city's boundaries may, at the
applicant's discretion, file a consolidated application with the city and
receive a single permit for the collocation of up to 30 small wireless
facilities. If the application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
city may separately address small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been received or which are denied.
   (H)   Denial of collocation of small wireless facilities. The city may deny
a proposed collocation of a small wireless facility in the public rights-of-way
or to place a utility pole used to support a small wireless facility in the
public rights-of-way if the proposed small wireless facility or utility pole
used to support a small wireless facility:
      (1)   Materially interferes with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment;
      (2)   Materially interferes with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation, pedestrians, or public safety purposes;
      (3)   Materially interferes with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian
access or movement;
      (4)   Materially fails to comply with the 2017 edition of the florida
department of transportation utility accommodation manual;
      (5)   Materially fails to comply with applicable codes and the applicable
provisions of this chapter;
      (6)   Materially fails to comply with objective design standards
authorized under F.S. § 337.401(7)(r).
   (I)   Permit not required for wireless facilities.
      (1)   The city will not require any permit or other approval or require
fees, or other charges, costs, or other exactions for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance, the performance of service restoration work
on existing facilities, or repair work, including, but not limited to,
emergency repairs of existing facilities or extensions of such facilities for
providing communications services to customers;
         (b)   Replacement of existing wireless facilities with wireless
facilities that are substantially similar or of the same or smaller size; or
         (c)   Installation, placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with applicable codes by or for a communications
services provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way and who is remitting
taxes under F.S. Chapter 202. The city will require an initial letter from or
on behalf of such provider, which is effective upon filing, attesting that the
micro wireless facility dimensions comply with the limits of this code and F.S.
§ 337.401. The city may not require any additional filing or other information
as long as the provider is deploying the same, a substantially similar, or a
smaller size micro wireless facility equipment.
      (2)   The city shall not require an application for a permit for a
registrant that is in compliance with this chapter for maintenance, repair,
replacement, extension, or upgrade of existing aerial lines or underground
communications facilities located on private property outside of the public
rights-of-way and the city shall not issue a permit for such work. All
underground work without a permit shall be documented with photographs and
video, and such documentation shall be provided to the city when requested but
in no event later than 15 days following such work.
      (3)   A permit shall not be required for the installation, placement,
maintenance, or replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on
cable strung between existing utility poles in the public rights-of-way, in
compliance with applicable codes by or for a communications services provider
authorized to occupy the public rights- of-way and who is remitting
communications services tax under F.S. Chapter 202. At least 30 days prior to
placing or maintaining a micro wireless facility in the public rights-of-way
pursuant to this division, the registrant shall submit a letter under oath to
the City's Public Works Department from or on behalf of the communications
provider, which shall be effective upon filing, attesting that the micro
wireless facility's dimensions comply with F.S. § 337.401(7) and this chapter.
If the micro wireless facility's dimensions exceed the dimensions to constitute
a micro wireless facility, the registrant shall not be authorized to place such
facility in the public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the exceptions to permit requirements contained in
this section, a registrant shall obtain from the city a right-of-way permit for
work that involves excavation, closure of a sidewalk, or closure of a vehicular
lane or parking lane, regardless of the duration of such closure, unless the
registrant is a communications services provider that is performing service
restoration on an existing facility and the work is done in compliance with the
2017 edition of the Florida Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation
Manual, including, but not limited to, the requirement to notify Sunshine 811
prior to any excavation or demolition activities in accordance with F.S.
Chapter 556 and to comply with all City Codes. In such instance, the
communications services provider shall provide information acceptable to the
city detailing the service restoration that is needed on an existing facility
and shall provide reasonable advance notice to the city of at least three
business days, so that the city may have an observer present. The city may
require a specific method of excavation and a maintenance of traffic or
sidewalk closure plan, as applicable. In addition, the registrant shall file
for an after the fact permit within 15 days after completing restoration of the
public rights-of-way. A registrant performing work without a permit shall
ensure that the work is documented with photographs and videotape, including of
the area of the public rights-of way impacted, and such photograph and
videotape documentation shall be provided to the city.
   (J)   Limited purpose of communications rights-of-way permit. A
communications rights-of-way permit issued by the city constitutes
authorization to undertake only certain activities in public rights-of-way in
accordance with this chapter, and does not create any property right or other
vested interest, or grant authority to impinge upon the rights of others who
may have an interest in the public rights-of-way. Permits shall be granted only
for specific routes or locations in the public rights- of-way and for such term
as described in the permit. The city's issuance of a permit shall not be
construed as a warranty that the placement of any communications facility is in
compliance with applicable codes, regulations or laws.
   (K)   Permit processing timeframes; shot clock for macro wireless
facilities. The city's action on proposals to place or maintain macro wireless
facilities communications facilities shall be subject to the applicable
standards and timeframes set out in F.S. § 365.172, as may be amended from time
to time; and 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a) and orders issued by the FCC, as same may be
amended from time to time. All federal and state "shot clock" timeframe
guidelines that apply to any particular permit are hereby recognized by the
city, and the city will make all reasonable efforts to comply therewith.
   (L)   Permit processing timeframes; shot clock for wireline and small
wireless facilities. The city's action on wireline and micro wireless
communications facilities is subject to the timeline in F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)7
through 9.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.07 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Applications. To minimize issues related to a permit application,
prior to submitting a permit application, registrants are strongly encouraged
to engage in a pre- application meeting to discuss the registrant's plans and
network goals for placing or maintaining facilities in the public rights-of-way
including all city permits or approvals that may be required based on the
nature of the registrant's proposed work in the public rights-of-way. A
registrant is encouraged to be prepared to discuss its network needs and
planned locations, design of facilities and other issues that may arise under
this chapter. The city shall undertake efforts to accommodate a registrant's
request for a pre- submission meeting within ten business days of a request. A
pre-submittal meeting is required for a permit request that involves excavation
of over 50 feet of public rights-of-way.
   (B)   A pre-submittal meeting shall not commence the timeframes provided
herein for city review and processing of an application or a request.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.08 CONSOLIDATED PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An applicant seeking to collocate multiple small wireless facilities may
file a consolidated permit application and receive a single permit for the
collocation of up to 30 small wireless facilities. The application must include
the information required for an application for each of the proposed
facilities. In addition, prior to applying for a consolidated permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, the applicant is strongly encouraged to
engage in a pre-submittal meeting with the city. A separate application must be
filed for each utility pole to be placed in the public rights-of-way for the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city consents to a single
application for multiple utility poles at a pre-submission meeting. The city
may act on a consolidated permit application in its entirety or may separately
address small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete information
has been received or which are granted or denied.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.09 PERMITS OTHER THAN PURSUANT TO APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Requests for communications facilities. The city shall review and
process requests for permits for backhaul facilities, fiber, cable, conduit,
and communications facilities other than small wireless facilities and utility
poles for collocation of small wireless facilities, and other permit requests,
consistent with applicable law and the City Code, and the city's policies and
procedures.
   (B)   Ancillary permits. The city shall process requests for ancillary
permits required for the operation of a communications facility, including, but
not limited to an electrical permit, in accordance with the city's policies and
procedures. Consistent with the city's policies, the city may withhold or deny
an ancillary permit if the person seeking such permit is otherwise in violation
of the City Code.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.10 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   As a condition of allowing the placement or maintenance of a communications
system or any communications facility in the public rights- of-way, and under
additional authority granted pursuant to F.S. Chapter 337 the city hereby
imposes the following rules, regulations and general conditions. Unless
otherwise provided in this chapter, these rules, regulations and general
conditions shall apply to all communications services providers, including
those that are pass- through providers irrespective of whether they place and
maintain only conduit, dark fiber or pass-through facilities.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. A communications services provider shall at all
times be comply with and abide by all applicable provisions of state and
federal law and city ordinances, codes and regulations in placing or
maintaining a communications facility in the public rights-of-way. Except as
provided herein, the placement of a communications facility anywhere in the
corporate limits of the city shall in all cases be subject to the city's zoning
and land use regulations, including those set forth in
Chapter 154 of this code. The burden of proof shall at all times be on the
communications services provider to establish compliance with requirements
under this chapter that are consistent with state and federal law.
   (B)   Due care. A communications services provider shall use and exercise
due caution, care and skill in performing work in the public rights-of-way and
shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard work site areas.
   (C)   Power to restrict area. If the proposed placement location creates a
violation of applicable codes as defined in F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)2, or other
applicable provisions of F.S. § 337.401, the city shall have the power to
prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional communications facilities
within a particular area of the public rights-of way and deny the issuance of a
permit.
   (D)   Responsibility for contractors. Every communications services provider
that is registered with the city shall be liable for the actions of contractor
(s) hired by them to perform the placement or maintenance of facilities in the
public rights-of-way and shall be responsible for making sure that such
contractor meets and complies fully with the rules, regulations and general
conditions set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Provision and form of record drawings and as-built surveys. Within 45
days after completion of any placement of a communications facility in the
public rights-of- way, the communications services provider shall provide the
city with record drawings showing the final location of such Facility in the
public rights-of-way. The record drawings and as-built surveys shall be
provided to the City at no cost.
   (F)   Production and filing of as-builts. Every communications services
provider that is registered with the city shall produce and keep on file at its
principal place of business an accurate and complete set of as-builts of all
facilities placed and maintained in the public rights-of-way. The location and
identification of facilities and the production of as-builts shall be at the
sole expense of the communications services provider. Within 30 days of any
written request by the City Engineer, the communications services provider must
provide to the city, at no cost, copies of complete sets of as-builts for the
indicated public rights-of-way. The failure of the communications services
provider to produce, keep on file, or provide to the city as-builts as required
under this chapter is a code violation punishable as provided by law.
   (G)   Removal of facilities placed without permit. Any communications
facilities placed in the public rights-of-way by the communications services
provider without first having obtained the required permit shall be removed
within 30 days of written notice by the city to remove the same and in default
of compliance with such notice, such facilities may be removed by order of the
City Engineer and the cost of removal shall be borne and paid by the
communications services provider upon demand.
   (H)   Underground.
      (1)   The city has undergone and continues to undergo great expense to
place utility facilities underground. There are areas of the city where
utilities providing telecommunications and electric service are underground and
no utility poles exist for such services in the rights-of-way or public
easements. The city has a public interest in minimizing aesthetic impacts
associated with structures in the rights-of-way, enhancing traffic, bicycle,
and pedestrian safety, and managing limited right-of- way land area, especially
in pedestrian oriented urban areas planned for higher densities and
intensities. Accordingly, in those areas of the city where utilities providing
telecommunications and electric service are underground and/or no utility poles
exist for such services in the public rights-of-way or easements, the placement
and maintenance of new utility poles for wireline telecommunications or
electric service shall not be permitted. This restriction is consistent with
the requirements of this chapter,
Chapter 155, Appendix D, §
158.09, and various DRI and PUD Agreements.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the utility pole restriction in division (1) above,
and in accordance with F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)3.i., the city recognizes that
wireless facilities cannot be deployed underground given the propagation
characteristics of wireless signals. Requests for the placement of new utility
poles in the public rights-of-way to support small wireless facilities must be
considered by the city in those areas where there are no existing utility
poles. Requests for the proposed new utility poles in these areas should be
processed the same as other proposed new utility poles.
      (3)   The placement or maintenance of all communications facilities shall
be underground if the conditions in F.S. § 337.401(7)(i) are met, unless
otherwise approved in writing by the City Engineer. Communications facilities
shall be placed between the property line and the curb line of all streets and
avenues and shall not be within the roadway or the roadway recovery area unless
specifically approved in writing by the City Engineer. All communications
facilities shall have consistent alignment parallel with the edge of pavement,
a 36-inch depth of cover for, and shall have two feet of horizontal clearance
from, other underground utilities and their appurtenances. Where approved by
the City Engineer, facilities to be placed in the street shall be laid
according to the permanent grade of the street and at a depth below the surface
of the permanent grade as determined by the City Engineer. The city will not:
(a) prohibit the installation of a new utility pole used to support the
collocation of a small wireless facility if the installation otherwise meets
the requirements of the applicable codes; or (b) require that any component of
a small wireless facility be placed underground except where the requirements
of F.S. § 337.401(7)(i) are met.
   (I)   Above-ground approval. Attachment to any utility pole or other above-
ground structure must be pursuant to a valid and effective pole attachment
agreement or similar instrument. Location on any utility pole or other above-
ground structure shall not be considered a vested interest of the
communications services provider or wireless infrastructure provider. Such
utility poles or structures, if owned by the communications services provider
or wireless infrastructure provider, shall be removed or modified by the
communications services provider or wireless infrastructure provider at its own
expense if required by F.S. § 337.403.
   (J)   Undergrounding of electric utility facilities. The communications
services provider or wireless Infrastructure provider shall, at such time as
the electric utility facilities or other communications facilities are placed
underground or are required by the city to be placed underground, concurrently
place its communications facilities underground, in accordance with F.S. §
337.403.
   (K)   Placement and maintenance standards. The placement or maintenance of
communications facilities in the public rights-of- way shall be performed in
accordance with standards and requirements of the following, as is applicable
and as each is in force at the time of the respective placement or maintenance
of a communications system or facility:
      (1)   The Florida Department of Transportation 337.403 Utilities
Accommodation Guide (2017 Edition);
      (2)   The State of Florida Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design
Construction and maintenance for Streets and Highways;
      (3)   The Trench Safety Act (F.S. Chapter 553);
      (4)   The Underground Facility Damage Prevention and Safety Act (F.S.
Chapter 556);
      (5)   All applicable structural requirements with respect to wind speed
under the Florida Building Code;
      (6)   The National Electrical Code or the ANSI National Electrical Safety
Code; and
      (7)   The "Safety Rules for the Installation and maintenance of
Electrical Supply and Communication Lines," established by the Department of
Commerce, Bureau of Standards of the United States.
   (L)   Sunshine State One-Call. Every communications services provider shall
utilize, and if permissible, maintain membership in the utility notification
one call system administered by Sunshine State One-Call of Florida, Inc.
   (M)   Safety and minimal interference. All placement and maintenance of
communication facilities in the public rights-of- way shall be subject to the
City Code and other regulations of the city pertaining thereto, and shall be
performed with the least possible interference with the use and appearance of
the public rights- of-way and the rights and reasonable convenience of the
property owners who abut or adjoin the public rights-of-way and in compliance
with the rules and regulations of the Florida Department of Transportation. The
communications services provider shall at all times employ reasonable care and
use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents
which are likely to cause damage or injury or be a nuisance to the public.
Suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares, or other devices shall be used at
such times and places as are reasonably required for the safety of all members
of the public. All placement and maintenance shall be done in such a manner as
to minimize to the greatest extent any interference with the usual travel on
such public rights-of- way. The use of trenchless technology (i.e.,
microtunneling and horizontal directional drilling techniques) for the
installation of communications facilities in the public rights-of- way as well
as joint trenching or the collocation of facilities in existing conduit is
strongly encouraged, and should be employed wherever and whenever feasible.
   (N)   Correction of harmful conditions. If, at any time, the city or other
authority of competent jurisdiction reasonably determines that any
communications facility is, or has caused a condition that is, harmful to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person, then the communications
services provider shall, at its own expense, promptly correct or eliminate all
such facilities and conditions. In an emergency, as determined by the City
Engineer, when the communications services provider is not immediately
available or is unable to provide the necessary immediate repairs to any
communications facility that is damaged or malfunctioning, or has caused a
sunken area or other condition and, in the City Engineer's sole discretion, is
deemed a threat to public safety, then the city, when apprised of such an
emergency, shall have the right to remove, make repairs to or eliminate same
with the total cost being charged to and paid for by the communications
services provider upon demand.
   (O)   Remedy of hazardous conditions. If, at any time, a condition exists
that the city or other authority of competent jurisdiction reasonably
determines is an emergency that is potentially hazardous or life threatening to
any person or is a threat to the health or safety of the general public, and to
remedy such condition the city or other authority of competent jurisdiction
reasonably determines that a communications services provider must temporarily
relocate or temporarily shut off service or transmissions through a specific
facility, then the city, as an appropriate exercise of its police powers, may
order the communications services provider to immediately perform such
temporary relocation or shut off until the condition has been remedied, and to
do so at its own expense and without liability to or recourse against the city.
In such an emergency, when the communications services provider is not
immediately available or is unable to provide the necessary immediate
relocation or shut off of the specific communications facility, then the city
shall have the right to perform, or cause to be performed, such temporary
relocation or shut off until the condition has been remedied with the total
cost being charged to and paid for by the communications services provider upon
demand.
   (P)   Interference with other facilities. A communications services provider
shall not, in violation of any applicable laws or regulatory standards, design,
place or maintain its communications facilities in a manner that will interfere
with the signals or facilities of any municipal or county police, fire or
rescue department, the facilities of any public utility, or the communications
facilities of another communications service provider, including any cable
service provider.
   (Q)   Relocation or removal of facilities. Except in cases of emergency, a
communications services provider, at its own expense, shall:
      (1)   Upon 30 days written notice, relocate or remove, as specified in
said notice, its communications facility in the event the City finds that the
particular Facility is unreasonably interfering in some way with the
convenient, safe or continuous use, or the maintenance, improvement, extension
or expansion of any public rights-of-way. The city shall provide the
communications services provider with a notice and order as provided for in
F.S. § 337.404, or any subsequently enacted law of the State of Florida, in the
event it charges the communications services provider for the cost and expense
of relocating or removing such facility pursuant to this division (Q);
      (2)   Within a reasonable period of time from the date of written notice
from the city, but not more than 120 days thereafter, relocate or remove, as
specified in said notice, its communications facility in the event the City
Public Works Director determines it necessary for the construction, completion,
repair, relocation or maintenance of a city project, because the particular
communications facility is interfering with or adversely affecting the proper
operation of street light poles, traffic signals, or any communications system
belonging to the city or an agency thereof or because the particular
communications facility is interfering with the signals or facilities of the
City of Lake Mary Police Department, Seminole County Fire Rescue, or any
municipal public utility. In the event the city issues any such written notice
to the communications services provider pursuant to this division, and the
communications services provider fails to cause the aforementioned relocation
or removal as required herein, the city shall be entitled to relocate or remove
such facilities without further notice to the communications services provider
and the total cost and expense shall be charged to the communications services
provider.
   (R)   Temporary raising or lowering of facilities. A communications services
provider, upon request of any person holding a validly issued building or
moving permit from the city to temporarily encroach on or perform moving
operations in or across the public rights-of-way, shall temporarily raise or
lower its communications facilities to accommodate such temporary encroachment
or move. The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of facilities shall
be paid by the person requesting the same, and the communications services
provider shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
communications services provider shall be given not less than 20 days advance
written notice from such person to arrange for the temporary relocation, which
notice must detail the time and location of the permitted activity, and not
less than 24 hours advance notice from the permit holder advising of the actual
operation. The city is not subject to, nor shall it be liable for, any such
expense or notice requirement for the moving of houses or structures performed
by the city or its contractors.
   (S)   Coordination. In an effort to minimize the adverse impact on the
public rights-of-way and other municipal improvements, a communications
services provider may be required by the City Engineer to coordinate the
placement or maintenance of its facilities with any work, construction,
installation in or repairs of the subject public rights-of-way or other
facilities therein that is occurring or is scheduled to occur within a
reasonable time from application for a permit as determined by the City
Engineer. Every communications services providers shall make space in its
trench and/or conduit within the public rights-of-way available to other
providers consistent with the federal requirements of 47 U.S.C. 224. Every
communications services provider shall use best efforts to utilize existing
conduits, pathways and other facilities if possible, and shall not place or
maintain any new, different, or additional poles, conduits, pathways or other
facilities, whether in the public rights-of-way or on privately owned property,
until written approval is obtained from the city or other appropriate
governmental authority, and, where applicable, from the private property owner.
   (T)   Collocation and joint use. A communications services provider, in an
effort to minimize the adverse impact on the useful life of the public rights-
of-way, shall, whenever possible, enter into joint use agreements with the city
and other parties who have registered with, or who are expressly authorized by,
the city to use its public rights-of-way; provided that the terms of such
agreements are satisfactory to the communications services provider. Nothing
herein contained shall mandate that the communications services provider enter
into joint use agreements with parties other than the city or an agency of the
city. However, prior to placement of any new or additional underground conduit
in the public rights-of-way, a communications services provider is required to
certify in writing to the City Engineer that it has made appropriate inquiry to
all existing utilities and other entities possessing a right to occupy the
public rights-of-way as to the availability of existing or planned conduit that
the particular communications services provider could reasonably utilize to
meet its needs, and that no such conduit is available or planned at a
reasonable cost by any other entity on the time schedule reasonably needed. The
communications services provider shall use best efforts to avoid placement or
maintenance of Facilities in those segments of the public rights- of-way where
there exists vacant or available conduit, dark fiber or surplus fiber owned by
the city, an agency of the city or another governmental body which is or,
through a reasonable amount of effort and expense, can be made compatible with
the communications services provider's system or network. Under such
circumstances the communications services provider shall have the opportunity
to enter into a use agreement or lease arrangement with the city or an agency
of the city at or below reasonable and prevailing market rates for such conduit
or fiber or, where owned by another governmental body, shall, in good faith,
first exhaust all means of obtaining use of such conduit or fiber before
applying for a permit from the city.
   (U)   Maintenance of traffic. In the event that placement or maintenance of
communications facilities conducted by the communications services provider
requires streets or traffic lanes to be closed or obstructed, the
communications services provider must, pursuant to the requirements of existing
or subsequently enacted city ordinances, obtain all necessary permits from
city, and shall obtain approval of its maintenance-of-traffic plan from the
City Engineer.
   (V)   Restoration of the public rights- of-way. Communications service
providers must provide a bond referenced in § 97.24 to insure the performance
of restoration under F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)12. After completion of any placement
or maintenance of a communications facility in the public rights-of-way or each
phase thereof, the communications services provider shall, at its own expense
and in a manner reasonably acceptable to the city, restore without delay the
public rights-of-way so disturbed to its original condition immediately prior
to the placement or maintenance work. If the communications services provider
fails to make such restoration within 30 days following the completion of such
placement or maintenance, the city may perform such restoration and charge the
costs of the restoration to the communications services provider in accordance
with F.S. § 337.402, as it may be amended. The communications services provider
shall, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, maintain and correct any
restorations made pursuant hereto for a period of 12 months following the date
of its completion. Failure to comply with this subsection shall be deemed a
code violation punishable as provided by law.
   (W)   Disruption or destruction of other facilities or property. A
communications services provider shall not knowingly place or maintain any
facility in a manner that shall in any way disrupt, displace, damage or destroy
any sewer line, gas line, water main, pipe, conduit, wires, fiber optics or
other facilities, or property belonging to the city or any other person
lawfully occupying the public rights-of-way, without first obtaining the
consent of the city. The communications services provider shall bear all
responsibility and costs for any such conduct where city consent has not been
obtained and shall pay such costs upon demand.
   (X)   Preservation of public rights-of- way for planned public projects. To
the extent not otherwise prohibited by state or federal law, the city shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
communications facilities within a particular area of public rights-of-way and
may consider, among other things and without limitation, the sufficiency of
space to accommodate all of the present communications facilities and pending
applications to place and maintain facilities in that area of the public
rights-of-way, the sufficiency of space to accommodate city announced plans for
public improvements or projects that the city determines are in the public
interest, the impact on traffic and traffic safety, and the impact upon
existing facilities in the public rights-of-way.
   (Y)   City not liable. Except for acts of negligence, willful misconduct or
gross negligence by the city, and to the extent permitted by applicable law,
neither the city nor its officials, boards, commissions, consultants, agents,
employees or independent contractors shall have any liability to the
communications services provider for any claims for any damages, costs,
expenses or losses resulting from the city's breakage, removal, alteration or
relocation of any facilities of any communications services provider which
arose out of or in connection with any emergency or disaster situation or was,
in the sole discretion of the City Engineer, deemed necessary to facilitate any
public works project, public improvement, alteration of a city structure,
change in the grade or line of any public rights-of-way, or the elimination,
abandonment or closure of any public rights-of-way or was found by City
Commission to be in the best interest of the health, safety or general welfare
of the public; nor shall any charge be made by the communications services
provider against the city for any damages, costs, expenses or losses related
thereto.
   (Z)   No exemption from permits. Nothing in this chapter shall exempt any
communications services provider from obtaining permits for work done within
the public rights-of-way.
   (AA)   Subject to police powers. To the extent allowed by law, the rights of
the communications services provider shall be subject to all lawful exercise of
police power by the city, and to such other reasonable regulation of the public
rights-of-way as the city shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide in
the interest of the health, safety and general welfare of the public. Any
inconsistency or ambiguity between the provisions of this chapter and any
lawful exercise of the city's police power shall be resolved in favor of the
latter.
   (BB)   City inspection. The city shall have the right to make such
inspections of a communications system or facilities placed or maintained in
the public rights-of-way as it finds necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter. This chapter shall not be construed to create or hold the city
responsible or liable for any damage to persons or property by reason of any
inspection by the city of the placement or maintenance of a communications
system or facility as authorized herein or failure by the city to so inspect.
   (CC)   Access to manholes. The city, in the proper exercise of its municipal
powers and duties with respect to the public rights-of-way, shall have access
at any time to all hand holes and manholes in the city belonging to a
communications services provider. Before accessing any manhole, the city will
make a reasonable good faith effort to provide the communications services
provider prior notice to afford an opportunity to have trained personnel
present, unless determined by the city to be an emergency situation.
   (DD)   Compatibility, capacity and interference issues. To properly manage
and control the use of the public rights-of-way, and to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of the public, the city, in its legislative and
regulatory role, shall be the final authority on permitting a communications
system or facility to be placed in the public rights-of-way and shall exercise
such authority in a non-discriminatory manner. It shall be in the sole
discretion of the City Attorney whether an easement is compatible with or
allows for its use by a communications system or facility. It shall be in the
sole discretion of the City Engineer, based on the nature, design, size,
configuration or proposed location of any communications system or facility,
whether there is sufficient capacity in a particular section of the public
rights-of-way or whether such system or facility will interfere with the
facilities or equipment of any municipality, county, public utility, cable
operator, or other communications service provider.
   (EE)   No warranty of fitness or suitability. The city makes no express or
implied warranties or representations regarding the fitness, suitability, or
availability of the public rights-of-way for any communications system or
facility or its right to authorize the placement or maintenance of any
communications system or facility in the public rights-of-way. Any performance
of work, costs incurred or services rendered by a communications services
provider shall be at such provider's sole risk. Nothing in this chapter shall
affect the city's authority to acquire or add public rights-of-way, or to
vacate or abandon public rights-of-way as provided for in the City Code or
applicable law. The city makes no express or implied warranties or
representations regarding the availability of any acquired, added, vacated or
abandoned public rights-of-way for a communications system or facility.
   (FF)   Annexations. Upon the annexation of any territory to the city, the
provisions of this chapter and the rules, regulations and general conditions
contained herein shall extend to the territories so annexed; and all facilities
placed, maintained, owned or operated by any communications services provider
extending into or already located in the public rights-of-way of the territory
so annexed, shall thereafter be subject to all terms hereof, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.11 PLACEMENT OF NEW UTILITY POLES OR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The placing of any new utility pole, wireless support structure, or
other above- ground structure to support communications facilities is subject
to the approval of the City Engineer and shall be done under the supervision of
the City Engineer or his or her designee. Except for a permit for collocation
of a small wireless facility on a new utility pole, no new utility pole,
wireless support structure, or other above-ground structure shall be allowed in
the public rights-of-way unless the applicant demonstrates, and the City
Engineer determines, that no existing structure or alternative technology (that
does not require the placement of a new structure in a public rights-of-way)
can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna or other communication
facility. Such a demonstration by the applicant shall not give rise to a right
to locate the proposed facility within the public rights-of-way or in any way
guarantee city approval of such. This demonstration is not required as a
condition for granting a permit for the collocation of a small wireless
facility on a new utility pole, except as provided in F.S. § 337.401(7)(i). An
applicant shall submit information requested by the City Engineer related to
the availability of suitable existing structures or alternative technology.
Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing structure or alternative
technology can accommodate the applicant's proposed communications facility may
consist of, but is not limited to, the following factors to be considered by
the City Engineer:
      (1)   No existing structures are located within the geographic area which
would meet applicant's engineering requirements.
      (2)   Existing structures are not of sufficient height to meet
applicant's engineering requirements, which shall be demonstrated by, at
minimum, propagation and coverage maps.
      (3)   Existing structures do not have sufficient structural strength to
support applicant's proposed antenna or other communications facility and
related equipment.
      (4)   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing structures, or the antenna on the
existing structures would cause interference with the applicant's proposed
antenna.
      (5)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing structure or to adapt an existing structure for
sharing are unreasonable.
      (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing structures unsuitable.
      (7)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that does
not require the use of new structures, such as cable microcell network using
multiple low- powered transmitters/receivers attached to wire line system, is
unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new structure or
antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology unsuitable.
      (8)   If the application is for a new utility pole to support a small
wireless facility and the applicant is a wireless infrastructure provider, the
applicant must attest that:
         (a)   The pole will be used within nine months from the date the
application is approved;
         (b)   Small wireless facilities will be collocated on the utility
pole.
   (B)   If approved, no such utility pole or other above-ground structure
shall be placed in any gutter or drainage area and must be behind the curb to
avoid damage to any sidewalk. In areas of the city where either electric
utility wires or other communications facilities are above ground and such
facilities are moved, either voluntarily or at the direction of the city, to a
new utility pole or other above-ground structure, the communications services
provider or wireless infrastructure provider shall likewise move all its above-
ground facilities on such utility poles or structures to such new utility pole
or structure within 30 days after receipt of written notice from either the
city or the owner of the new utility pole or structure in accordance with F.S.
§ 337.403.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.12 WIRELESS FACILITIES ALLOWED IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Only the following wireless facilities may be placed or maintained
within the city's public rights-of-way, subject to the requirements of this
chapter and F.S. § 337.401:
      (1)   Micro wireless facilities suspended on cable strung between
existing structures;
      (2)   Collocated wireless facilities:
         (a)   Small wireless facilities collocated on existing utility poles
or replacement poles that are privately owned;
         (b)   Small wireless facilities collocated on existing city utility
poles or replacement city utility poles.
      (3)   Non-collocated wireless facilities:
         (a)   Small wireless facilities located on new utility poles without
collocation, when permitted pursuant to the regulations addressing utility
poles for communications facilities in §
97.11;
         (b)   Small wireless facilities located on new utility poles in an
existing wireline pole line, when permitted pursuant to the regulations
addressing utility poles for communications facilities in §
97.11.
   (B)   Only the wireless facilities identified above shall be authorized in
the rights- of-way. The approval of a wireless facility pursuant to this
chapter does not authorize the installation, placement, maintenance, or
operation of any other type of communications facilities in the public rights-
of-way other than as expressly contemplated in any application made and
approved under this chapter.
   (C)   Collocation of wireless facilities on electric utility poles for an
electric distribution system located in the city public rights-of-way pursuant
to a valid franchise agreement with the city, and any utility poles not for an
electric distribution system placed or maintained by a city franchised utility
in the public rights-of-way, will be governed by the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   Wireless support structures, telecommunications towers, and other
wireless facilities, including but not limited to, an antenna that is not part
of a small wireless facility or micro-wireless facility shall not be allowed to
be placed or maintained in the public rights-of-way.
   (E)   This chapter does not permit a person to collocate or attach a micro-
wireless facility on a privately owned utility pole, a utility pole owned by an
electric cooperative, a privately owned wireless support structure, or other
private property without the consent of the property owner (F.S. § 337.401(7)
(l)).
   (F)   This chapter does not authorize a person to collocate small wireless
facilities or micro wireless facilities on a city utility pole or erect a
wireless support structure in a location subject to covenants, conditions,
restrictions, articles of incorporation, and bylaws of a homeowners'
association. This division does not apply to the installation, placement,
maintenance, or replacement of micro wireless facilities on any existing and
duly authorized aerial communications facilities (F.S. § 337.401(7)(q)). This
division shall be construed to apply to locations where such restrictions are
applicable to the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.13 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   Wireless facilities shall conform to the following standards required by the
Wireless Act:
   (A)   The maximum volume of each antenna is six cubic feet or, in the case
of antennas that have exposed elements, each antenna and all of its exposed
elements could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume
(F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)10).
   (B)   The cumulative maximum volume of all wireless equipment is 28 cubic
feet, not including the antenna or ancillary equipment as described in the
definition of a small wireless facility (F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)10).
   (C)   The maximum height of a wireless facility is ten feet above the
utility pole or structure upon which the small wireless facility is to be
collocated (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)5). Within the city, this height standard shall
also apply to non-collocated small wireless facilities.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.14 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   All wireless facilities, whether collocated or not, shall conform to the
following objective design standards for reasonable location context, color,
stealth design, and concealment requirements, and reasonable spacing
requirements concerning the location of ground- mounted equipment.
   (A)   Antenna. Antennas greater than one cubic foot in volume shall conform
to the following standards:
      (1)   Antenna location. Flush- mounted to top of pole only, in line with
the pole, except for small wireless facilities that comply with all other size
requirements.
      (2)   Antenna shroud. An antenna enclosure or shroud is required, except
as provided in F.S. § 337.401 for small wireless facilities that comply with
all other size requirements. The antenna and its connection to pole must be
completely shrouded, in line with the pole, and must smoothly transition around
pole top.
      (3)   Shroud color/material. The shroud shall match the color and style
of pole, and all wiring and equipment must be enclosed in shroud.
      (4)   Number of antenna shrouds allowed. One, six-cubic-foot antenna
shroud is allowed per pole, but there shall be no limit on number of antennas
within shroud.
   (B)   Pole-mounted equipment.
      (1)   Pole-mounted wireless equipment volume and size. Up to 28 cubic
feet of wireless equipment by volume may be pole- mounted, flush with the pole,
provided the depth and the width of any such equipment shall each not exceed 24
inches, except as provided in F.S. § 337.401.
      (2)   Pole-mounted equipment location. Cabinet for radio and other
wireless equipment, if pole-mounted, shall be no less than ten feet and no more
than 18 feet above grade. To help minimize visibility, should be placed on the
side of the pole opposite to the direction of traffic flow on the adjacent
vehicular travel lane.
      (3)   Electric meter. Free- mounted electric meter and disconnect may be
located on the utility pole in accordance with applicable codes. When mounted
on the utility pole, electric meters and disconnect switches should be located
on the side of the pole opposite to the direction of traffic flow on the
adjacent vehicular travel lane.
      (4)   Pole-mounted equipment color/material. All pole-mounted equipment
shall be flush-mounted and shrouded or encased in a covering or cabinet. The
equipment cabinets, cages, and associated hardware, including meters and cutoff
switches, shall be black. Mounting straps shall only be allowed on poles where
direct mount is not possible or impairs pole structure; in the event external
straps are used, it shall match pole color. All other mounting and banding
fixtures shall either be black or match the color of the pole. On all poles,
except wood poles where allowed, all wires and cabling shall be placed internal
to the pole; external wires and cables on wood poles shall be in ducts,
raceways, or conduit risers that matches the pole color.
   (C)   Enclosed pedestal base.
      (1)   Pedestal base size. Enclosed pedestal base not exceeding 36 inches
high and a square shape not exceeding 24 inches wide by 24 inches in depth.
Architectural molding on all flat surfaces is preferred.
      (2)   Pedestal base color/material. Match the color of the pole.
   (D)   Ground-mounted equipment.
      (1)   Ground-mounted equipment location. Shall be located within a 15-
foot radius of pole.
      (2)   Ground-mounted equipment color/material. All equipment shall be
enclosed in a cabinet and cables in raceways. Cabinets shall be located on a
concrete or equivalent pad on the ground. The external finish of all ground-
mounted cabinets and associated hardware, including meters, cutoff switches,
ducts, raceways, and conduit risers, shall be black. Any meters or equipment
mounted to the finish shall be flush.
      (3)   Ground-mounted equipment setbacks. Shall be set back a minimum of
two and one-half feet from the face of non-mountable curb adjacent to an on-
street parallel parking space, ten feet from the edge of existing trees 12
inches or greater in diameter at breast height, and 15 feet from any pedestrian
ramp.
      (4)   Ground-mounted equipment separation from fire hydrants. Shall be at
least 60 inches from the front of fire hydrants and 36 inches from any other
side of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   Ground-mounted equipment on separate poles. Equipment cabinets or
cages mounted on a separate pole shall not be permitted. Electric meters
located on a separate pole shall not be permitted.
      (6)   Ground-mounted equipment roadside clearances. Ground-mounted
equipment within public rights-of-way shall not be within the roadway recovery
area. Equipment such as above-ground closures, cabinets, and other items whose
construction and size would cause extensive damage to a vehicle if struck are
to be located according to the standards for utility poles. The roadside
clearances for other above-ground facilities shall be consistent with those
clearances applicable to other obstacles on the type of highway involved,
reflecting good engineering and economic consideration.
   (E)   Aerial connections. Aerial electrical and fiber connections shall not
be permitted unless there are existing aerial wires on the host utility pole to
serve the facility. All cables between the utility pole and ground- mounted
equipment shall be placed underground.
   (F)   Other standards.
      (1)   The grounding rod shall not extend above the top of the sidewalk
and must be placed in a pull box, and the ground wire between the pole and
ground rod must be inside an underground conduit.
      (2)   All pull boxes must be vehicle load bearing, comply with FDOT
Standard Specification 635 and be listed on the FDOT approved products list. A
concrete apron must be installed around all pull boxes not located in the
sidewalk. No new pull boxes may be located in pedestrian ramps.
      (3)   Wireless facilities and equipment may not block or materially
interfere with the view of street signs or traffic control devices.
      (4)   One weatherproof sign or plaque shall be placed on the electric
meter cabinet for the city-issued address of the facility. Such label shall not
be larger than one-half square foot in area. Any signs required by the FCC are
also allowed. No other signage shall be permitted on any wireless facility.
      (5)   No signals, lights, or illumination shall be permitted on a
wireless facility unless required by applicable state or federal laws or rules.
      (6)   Electric power and communication lines servicing small wireless
facilities shall be located underground unless there are existing aerial lines
on the host utility pole to serve the facility. All cables between the utility
pole and ground-mounted equipment shall be placed underground, except where
otherwise provided in F.S. § 337.401.
      (7)   Wires and cables to be located on a utility pole shall, to the
extent practicable, be within the utility pole, or in the case of wood utility
poles and utility poles that do not have capacity for internal wiring, wiring
shall be enclosed in ducts or raceways or covered with a shroud. No exposed
wires or cables are permitted. To conform to this standard, new non- wood
utility poles such as aluminum, fiberglass or other structural synthetic
material, concrete, etc., shall be capable of accommodating an internal chase
and all wiring shall be interior to pole.
      (8)   Exposed ducts, raceways, conduit risers, or wire shrouding shall
not be permitted above the electric meter and disconnect switch when wires
interior to the pole- or flush-mounted wires are possible. In situations where
exposed raceways have to be used, such as wood poles, the raceways shall match
the color of the utility pole, if pole- mounted; otherwise, the finish shall be
black. Wiring shall be insulated in accordance with applicable codes.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.15 NOTICE OF TRANSFER, SALE OR ASSIGNMENT OF ASSETS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.
   If a communications services provider transfers, sells or assigns its assets
located in the public rights-of-way incident to a transfer, sale or assignment
of the communications services provider's assets, the transferee, buyer or
assignee shall be obligated to comply with the terms of this chapter. Written
notice of any such transfer, sale or assignment shall be provided by such
communications services provider to the city within 30 days after the effective
date of the transfer, sale or assignment. If the transferee, buyer or assignee
is a current registrant, then the transferee, buyer or assignee is not required
to re- register. If the transferee, buyer or assignee is not a current
registrant, then the transferee, buyer or assignee shall register as provided
in §
97.05 within 60 days of the transfer, sale or assignment. If any applications
for a permit are pending under the communications services provider's name as
of the date the city receives written notice of the transfer, sale, or
assignment, then the city shall consider the transferee, buyer or assignee as
the new applicant unless otherwise notified by the communications services
provider.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.16 EXISTING AND REPLACEMENT UTILITY POLES FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Eligible poles for collocation. An existing utility pole in the public
rights-of-way in use at the time of an application for collocation is eligible
for collocation consistent with the provisions of this chapter. However, a pole
or similar structure 15 feet or less in height is not eligible for collocation
unless a waiver is granted for such pole (F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)11).
   (B)   Statutory requirements for replacement utility poles. Replacement
utility poles for wireless facilities shall conform to the following standards
required by the Wireless Act:
      (1)   The height for a replacement utility pole is limited to the tallest
existing utility pole as of July 1, 2017, located in the same right-of-way,
other than a utility pole for which a waiver has previously been granted,
measured from grade in place within 500 feet of the proposed location of the
small wireless facility. If there is no utility pole within 500 feet, the
height of the utility pole shall be limited to 50 feet (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)5).
      (2)   The installation by a common services provider of a replacement
utility pole in the public rights-of-way, other than a utility pole to support
a small wireless facility, is subject to city rules or regulations governing
the placement of utility poles in the public rights- of-way, except as provided
in division (1) above and the alternative location negotiation process in §
97.06(F)(2), and shall be subject to the application review timeframes in this
chapter (F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)6). The aforementioned rules or regulations
include the standards for the placement and maintenance of utility poles in §
97.16.
      (3)   Statutory allowance for wireless infrastructure providers. A
wireless infrastructure provider may apply to the city to place replacement
utility poles in the public rights-of-way to support the collocation of small
wireless facilities. The application must include an attestation that small
wireless facilities will be collocated on the utility pole or structure and
will be used by a wireless services provider to provide service within nine
months after the date the application is approved. The city shall accept and
process the application in accordance with F.S. § 337.401(7)(d)6, and any
applicable codes and other local codes governing the placement of utility poles
in the public rights-of-way (F.S. § 337.401(7)(j)). The aforementioned codes
include the standards for the placement and maintenance of utility poles in §
97.11 and the design standards for replacement utility poles for wireless
facilities in this section and F.S. § 337.401.
      (4)   Design standards for replacement utility poles. An existing utility
pole may be removed and replaced with a replacement utility pole for the
purposes of collocating a small wireless facility subject to the requirements
of this section.
         (a)   Similarity to existing pole. A new utility pole that replaces an
existing utility pole shall be of substantially similar design, material, and
color as the original pole (F.S. § 337.401(7)(r)). However, conversion of a
wood utility pole to concrete or metal is preferred. If the original pole is
part of a planned project by the owner of the pole to replace poles, the
replacement pole must conform to the updated design, color and material.
         (b)   Location. The replacement utility pole must be in substantially
the same location and continue to serve primary function as original pole. In
order to qualify as a replacement utility pole, the original pole shall be
removed so that there is not a net increase in the number of utility poles
located within that particular area of the public right-of-way.
         (c)   Height. Pursuant to the statutory height requirements in §
97.18. In situations where the replacement utility pole would not be higher
than the original utility pole, the height of the replacement pole may be
increased up to five feet through a waiver if reasonably necessary to
accommodate separation requirements for a top-mounted antenna.
         (d)   Internal channel. Non-wood replacement poles such as aluminum,
fiberglass or other structural synthetic material, concrete, etc., shall be
capable of accommodating an internal chase, and all wiring shall be interior to
pole.
         (e)   Utility pole standards. A replacement utility pole shall conform
to the applicable requirements for the placement and maintenance of utility
poles and similar structures in §§
97.11 and
97.16.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.17 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The city may suspend a permit for work in the public rights-of-way for
one or more of the following reasons subject to this chapter:
      (1)   Violation of permit conditions, including conditions set forth in
the permit, this chapter or other applicable city ordinances, codes or
regulations governing placement or maintenance of communications facilities in
public rights-of-way;
      (2)   Misrepresentation or fraud by the communications services provider
in a registration or permit application to the city;
      (3)   Failure to properly renew or ineffectiveness of registration; or
      (4)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as may be lawfully
required by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall provide notice and an opportunity to cure any violation
of divisions (A) above, each of which shall be reasonable under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.18 DESIGN, PLACEMENT AND COLLOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Objective design standards. The placement of wireless communications
facilities anywhere in the public rights-of-way shall in all cases be designed
to meet reasonable location context, color, camouflage, concealment and
material requirements allowed by F.S. § 337.401(7)(r). Unless otherwise
provided herein, all communications facilities shall be subject to the design
standards set forth in §§
97.14 and
97.16.
   (B)   Specific waiver criteria for wireless facilities. Waiver requests
related to wireless facilities in this chapter shall be based upon the
following waiver criteria:
      (1)   Design standards for wireless facilities provided in §§
97.14 and
97.16 that may require a small wireless facility to meet reasonable location
context, color, stealth, and concealment requirements may be waived by the city
engineer upon the applicant satisfactorily demonstrating that the objective
design standards are not reasonably compatible for the particular location of a
small wireless facility or that the objective design standards impose an
excessive expense. The waiver shall be granted or denied within 45 days after
the date of the request (F.S. § 337.401(7)(r)).
      (2)   Objective design standards for small wireless facilities provided
in division (A) that may require a new utility pole that replaces an existing
utility pole to be of substantially similar design, material, and color or that
may require reasonable spacing requirements concerning the location of ground-
mounted equipment may be waived by the City Engineer upon the applicant
satisfactorily demonstrating that the objective design standards are not
reasonably compatible for the particular location of a small wireless facility
or that the objective design standards impose an excessive expense. The waiver
request must be granted or denied within 45 days after the date of the request
(F.S. § 337.401(7)(r)).
   (C)   Zoning and land use regulations. Unless otherwise provided herein, all
communications facilities shall be subject to the city's zoning and land use
regulations, including the performance, construction and design standards set
forth in
Chapter 154, so long as those regulations are not in direct contradiction to
the requirements of F.S. § 337.401.
   (D)   Height. wireless communication facilities, including any attached
antennas shall not exceed the following height requirements:
      (1)   Macro wireless facilities. The height of a new pole or wireless
support structure within the public rights-of-way shall be in accordance with
Chapter 154.
      (2)   Small wireless facilities. The city hereby limits the height of a
small wireless facility to ten feet above the utility pole or structure upon
which the small wireless facility is to be collocated. Unless waived by the
city, the height for a new utility pole installed in conjunction with the
collocation of a small wireless facility is limited to the tallest existing
utility pole as of July 1, 2017, located in the same public right-of-way, other
than a utility pole for which a waiver has previously been granted, measured
from grade in place, within 500 feet of the proposed location of the small
wireless facility. If there is no utility pole within 500 feet, the city shall
limit the height of the utility pole to 50 feet.
   (E)   Airport airspace. A structure granted a permit and installed pursuant
to this chapter shall comply with F.S. Chapter 333 and federal regulations
pertaining to airport airspace protections.
   (F)   Collocation of small wireless facilities. The city hereby adopts the
following additional rules that will apply to the collocation of small wireless
facilities in public rights-of- way:
      (1)   Collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles is
subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the
city may reserve space on city utility poles for future public safety uses. If
replacement of a city utility pole is necessary to accommodate the collocation
of the small wireless facility and the future public safety use, the pole
replacement is subject to the make-ready provisions of this chapter and the
replaced pole shall accommodate the future public safety use.
         (b)   The city shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with any
person for the right to attach equipment to city utility poles.
         (c)   The city hereby levies, establishes, and sets an annual rate in
the amount of $150 that shall be paid by an applicant who is granted a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities on city utility poles. The issuance of
the permit is conditioned on the initial payment of the annual fee, with
remaining annual payments to be made in all subsequent years on the same date.
         (d)   For a city utility pole that supports an aerial facility used to
provide communications services or electric service by another, the parties
shall comply with the process for make-ready work under 47 U.S.C. § 224 and
implementing regulations. The good faith estimate of the person owning or
controlling the pole for any make-ready work necessary to enable the pole to
support the requested collocation must include pole replacement if necessary.
         (e)   For a city utility pole that does not support an aerial facility
used to provide communications services or electric service by another, the
city shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-ready work necessary to
enable the pole to support the requested collocation, including necessary pole
replacement, within 60 days after receipt of a complete application. Make-ready
work, including any pole replacement, must be completed within 60 days after
written acceptance of the good faith estimate by the applicant. Alternatively,
the city may require the applicant seeking to collocate a small wireless
facility to provide a make-ready estimate at the applicant's expense for the
work necessary to support the small wireless facility, including pole
replacement, and perform the make-ready work. If pole replacement is required,
the scope of the make-ready estimate is limited to the design, fabrication, and
installation of a utility pole that is substantially similar in color and
composition. The city may not condition or restrict the manner in which the
applicant obtains, develops, or provides the estimate or conducts the make-
ready work subject to usual construction restoration standards for work in the
right-of-way. The replaced or altered utility pole shall remain the property of
the city.
         (f)   The city may not require more make-ready work than is required
to meet applicable codes or industry standards. Fees for make-ready work may
not include costs related to preexisting damage or prior noncompliance. Fees
for make-ready work, including any pole replacement, may not exceed actual
costs or the amount charged to communications services providers other than
wireless services providers for similar work and may not include any consultant
fee or expense.
      (2)   Placement of utility poles by wireless infrastructure providers in
the public rights-of-way in support of collocation of small wireless
facilities. A wireless infrastructure provider may apply to the city to place
utility poles in the public rights-of-way to support the collocation of small
wireless facilities. The application must include an attestation that small
wireless facilities will be collocated on the utility pole or structure and
will be used by a wireless services provider to provide service within nine
months after the date the application is approved by the city. The city shall
accept and process the application in accordance with any applicable codes and
other local codes governing the placement of utility poles in the public
rights-of-way, including but not limited to the provisions of this chapter, and
the provisions applicable to wireless communication facilities set forth in
Chapter 154, and any applicable historic preservation provisions and
requirements set forth in the City Code, as amended from time to time.
      (3)   Prohibited collocations, attachments, installations, and services
not authorized. This chapter does not authorize, and the city hereby prohibits,
the following:
         (a)   This division (F) does not authorize a person to collocate or
attach wireless facilities, including any antenna, micro wireless facility, or
small wireless facility, on a privately owned utility pole, a utility pole
owned by an electric cooperative or a municipal electric utility, a privately
owned wireless support structure, or other private property without the consent
of the property owner.
         (b)   This division (F) does not affect provisions relating to pass-
through providers contained in this section and in F.S. § 337.401(6).
         (c)   This division (F) does not apply to the installation, placement,
maintenance, or replacement of Micro wireless facilities on any existing and
duly authorized aerial communications facilities, provided that once aerial
facilities are converted to underground facilities, any such collocation or
construction shall be only as provided by the city's underground utilities
ordinance.
         (d)   This division (F) does not authorize a person to collocate small
wireless facilities or micro wireless facilities on a city utility pole or
erect a wireless support structure in a location subject to covenants,
conditions, restrictions, articles of incorporation, and bylaws of a
homeowners' association. This division (d) does not apply to the installation,
placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro wireless facilities on any
existing and duly authorized aerial communications facilities.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.19 APPEALS AND EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Final, written decisions of a designee of the City Manager, including,
but not limited to, a decision suspending, revoking, or denying a permit,
denying a registration, denying a renewal of a registration, suspending or
terminating a registration or denying a request for a waiver, or imposing costs
or a fine, are subject to appeal to the City Manager. A decision to deny a
permit is not final if the applicant has resubmitted a revised application or
request in an effort to cure the basis for denial within 30 days of being
notified of such denial, in which case the city shall review the revised
application or request and grant or deny it within 30 days or applicable time
frame consistent with applicable law and the city's policies and procedures. An
appeal must be filed with the City Clerk with the appeal fee as established in
the city fee ordinance, within 30 days of the date of the final, written
decision to be appealed. An applicant or requester shall waive any appeal that
is not timely filed as set forth herein. The City Manager shall hear the appeal
or may appoint a hearing officer to consider the appeal. The decision on appeal
shall be based on the information submitted previously to the city and no new
information shall be considered. Subject to a force majeure event, the hearing
shall occur within 30 days of the receipt of the appeal, unless waived by the
person pursuing the appeal, and a written decision shall be rendered within 15
days of the hearing or by the time period required by applicable law. The
appeal must be complete within 45 days after the appeal is filed by the
applicant.
   (B)   Prior to filing an action in an appropriate court, any person
challenging a provision of the City Code, city policy or procedure, or city
action shall be required to exhaust administrative remedies as provided herein.
To challenge action by a designee of the City Manager, the person shall be
required to file an appeal with the City Manager as provided in this section.
If a person is challenging a provision of this chapter or a policy or procedure
of the city that is adopted pursuant to this chapter, the person shall provide
documentation to the City Manager with sufficient detail explaining why such
code provision or policy or procedure is in violation of applicable law. The
City Manager may reject or grant the appeal in whole or in part, and may place
the matter on an agenda of the City Commission. For administrative remedies
related to the city's denial of an application, to the extent required by
applicable law, the city waives administrative reviews that are not complete
within 45 days after the person files a complete request for review. For all
challenges to city action other than denial of an application, the city does
not waive the exhaustion of administrative remedies. Nothing herein shall
constitute a waiver of the city's rights under applicable law including the
Florida Constitution.
   (C)   Within the time prescribed by the appropriate Florida Rules of
Appellate Procedure, following the exhaustion of administrative remedies, a
party aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager may appeal an adverse
decision to the Circuit Court in and for Seminole County or applicable federal
district court in Orlando. The party making the appeal shall be required to pay
to the City Clerk the fee established in the city fee ordinance to defray the
costs of preparing the record on appeal.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.20 INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The city may terminate a registration if:
      (1)   A federal or state authority suspends, denies, or revokes a
registrant's certification or license to provide communications services;
      (2)   The registrant's placement or maintenance of a communications
facility in the public rights-of-way presents an extraordinary danger to the
general public or other users of the public rights-of-way and the registrant
fails to remedy the danger promptly after receipt of written notice;
      (3)   The registrant ceases to use all of its communications facilities
in public rights-of-way and has not complied with §
97.26; or
      (4)   The communications services provider fails to comply with any of
the rules, regulations or general conditions set forth in herein.
   (B)   Prior to termination of a registration, the registrant shall be
notified by the City Engineer in writing, setting forth all matters pertinent
to the proposed termination action, including which of divisions (A)(1) through
(4) above is applicable as the reason therefore, and describing the proposed
action of the city with respect thereto. The registrant shall have 30 days
after receipt of such notice within which to address or eliminate the reason or
within which to present a plan, satisfactory to the City Engineer, to
accomplish the same. If not eliminated or if the plan is rejected, the City
Engineer shall provide written notice of such rejection to the registrant and a
final determination to terminate registration. A final determination to
terminate may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
97.19.
   (C)   In the event of termination, the former registrant shall: (1) notify
the city of the assumption or anticipated assumption by another registrant of
ownership of the communications services provider's communications facilities
in public rights-of-way; or (2) provide the city with an acceptable plan for
disposition of its communications facilities in the public rights-of- way. If a
communications services provider fails to comply with this division (C), which
determination of noncompliance is subject to appeal as provided in §
97.19, the city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in equity,
including but not limited to taking possession of the facilities where another
person has not assumed the ownership or physical control of the facilities; or
requiring the communications services provider within 90 days of the
termination, or such longer period as may be agreed to by the communications
services provider, to remove some or all of the facilities from the public
rights-of-way and restore the public rights-of-way to its original condition
before the removal.
   (D)   In any event, a terminated registrant shall take such steps as are
necessary to render safe every portion of the communications facilities
remaining in the public rights-of-way of the city.
   (E)   In the event of termination of a registration, this section does not
authorize the city to cause the removal of communications facilities used to
provide another service for which the registrant or another person who owns or
exercises physical control over the facilities holds a valid certification or
license with the governing federal or state agency, if required for provision
of such service, and is registered with the city, if required.
   (F)   The city's right to terminate a registration shall be in addition to
all other rights of the city, whether reserved in this chapter, or authorized
by other law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of the right to terminate
registration will affect or preclude any other right the city may have.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.21 EXISTING COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   A communications services provider with an existing communications facility
in the public rights-of-way has 60 days from the effective date of the
ordinance from which this chapter derives to comply with the terms of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, registration, or be in violation
thereof.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.22 INSURANCE.
   (A)   At all times during the use or occupancy of the public rights-of-way,
including any time during placement or maintenance of communications
facilities, the communications services provider shall provide, pay for and
maintain satisfactory to the city the following types of insurance described
herein. The limits of coverage of insurance required shall be not less than the
following:
      (1)   Worker's compensation. Policy limit shall be in an amount not less
than the statutory limit for worker's compensation;
      (2)   Employer's liability insurance. Policy limit in an amount not less
than $500,000.00 limit per each accident per each employee;
      (3)   Comprehensive general liability, including contractual liability
and products completed operations liability coverage on an occurrence basis.
Policy limit in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, combined
single limit, for bodily injury, personal injury or death, or property damage
and in an amount not less than $3,000,000 policy aggregate for each personal
injury liability, broad form property damage (without XCU exclusions),
contractual liability and products- completed operations liability;
      (4)   Business automobile liability. Policy limit in an amount not less
than $1,000,000 combined single limit, including bodily injury and property
damage covering owned, leased, hired and non-owner vehicles.
   (B)   All insurance providers used shall be admitted and duly authorized to
do business in the State of Florida and shall have assigned by A.M. Best
Company, a minimum Financial Strength Rating of "A" and a minimum Financial
Size Category of "IX" (i.e., a size of $250,000,000 to $500,000,000 based on
capital, surplus, and conditional reserve funds). All liability policies shall
name the city, its Council members, officers, and employees as additional
insureds with respect to any covered liability arising out of the placement or
maintenance of communications facilities in the public rights-of- way or other
activities under this chapter. All liability coverage must be in occurrence
form and in accordance with the limits specified. Claims made policies are not
acceptable. The required coverages must be evidenced by properly executed
certificate(s) of insurance forms. The certificates must be signed by the
authorized representative of the insurance company and shall be filed and
maintained with the city annually. Thirty days' advance written notice by
registered, certified or regular mail or facsimile as determined by the city
must be given to the city of any cancellation, intent not to renew or reduction
in the policy coverages. The communications services provider shall be
responsible for notifying the city of such cancellation, intent not to renew,
or reduction of coverage. All certificates(s) of insurance, including all
endorsements and riders, evidencing insurance coverage shall be submitted to
the city within 30 days after the date of registration with the city in order
for the communications services provider to obtain a permit required for the
construction in the public rights-of-way. Each communications services provider
shall, in the event of any such notice described above, obtain, pay all
premiums for, and file with the city, written evidence of the issuance of
replacement policies within 30 days following receipt by the city of the
communications services provider of such notice.
   (C)   The certificate(s) of insurance forms must be properly executed by the
authorized representative of the insurance provider and must include all
endorsements, riders and notices. Each communications services provider shall
file and maintain with the city on an annual basis the required certificate(s)
of insurance. The certificate(s) of insurance must indicate the following:
      (1)   The policy number; name of insurance company; name and address of
the agent or authorized representative; name and address of insured; that the
policy coverage "pertains the requirements of §
97.22 of the City of Lake Mary Communications Right-of-Way Ordinance"; policy
expiration date; and specific coverage amounts; and
      (2)   Any applicable deductibles or self-insured retentions;
      (3)   That the city, its Council Members, officers and employees are
additional insureds;
      (4)   That the city shall receive 30 days' advance written notice of
cancellation, intent not to renew or reduction in coverage; and
      (5)   That the commercial general liability insurance policy is primary
as respects any other valid or collectible insurance that the city may possess,
including any self- insured retentions the city may have; and any other
insurance the city does possess shall be considered excess insurance only and
shall not be required to contribute with this insurance.
   (D)   Under extraordinary circumstances, a communications services provider
may satisfy the insurance requirements of this chapter by providing
documentation of self-insurance that, in the sole discretion of the City
Manager, or his or her designee, demonstrates incontrovertibly the adequacy to
defend and cover claims of any nature that might arise from the placement and
maintenance of facilities in the public rights-of-way. The communications
services provider must be authorized as a self-insurer by the Department of
Insurance under the laws of the State of Florida.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.23 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A communications services provider shall, at its sole cost and
expense, indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the city, its officials, boards,
members, agents, and employees, against any and all claims, suits, causes of
action, proceedings, judgments for damages or equitable relief, and costs and
expenses incurred by the city arising out of or in connection with the
placement or maintenance of its communications system or facilities in public
rights-of-way by the communications services provider or its agent or hired
contractor, regardless of whether the act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter, provided, however, that the
communications services provider's obligation hereunder shall not extend to any
claims caused by the negligence, gross negligence or wanton or willful acts of
the city. This indemnification provision shall include, but not be limited to,
such damages and penalties arising out of claims (1) by any person whatsoever
on account of (i) bodily injury to a person or persons, (ii) death of a person
or persons or (iii) property damage, where any of the foregoing is occasioned
by the operations of the communications services provider, or alleged to have
been so caused or occurred; or (2) involving the communications services
provider's violation of any easement or private property rights.
   (B)   Indemnified costs and expenses shall include, but not be limited to,
all out-of- pocket expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in
defending against any such claim, suit or proceedings, and shall also include
the reasonable value of any services rendered by the City Attorney or his or
her assistants or any consultants, agents, and employees of the city. The city
agrees to notify the communications services provider, in writing, within a
reasonable time of city receiving notice, of any issue it determines may
require indemnification.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from participating in
the defense of any litigation by its own counsel and at its own cost if in the
city's reasonable belief there exists or may exist a conflict, potential
conflict or appearance of a conflict.
   (D)   This indemnity does not include liabilities not caused by the
provider, including liabilities arising from the city's negligence, gross
negligence, or willful conduct.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed or interpreted as
(1) denying to either party any remedy or defense available to such party under
the laws of the State of Florida; or (2) as a waiver of sovereign immunity
beyond the waiver provided in F.S. § 768.28, as it may be amended.
   (F)   The indemnification requirements shall survive and be in effect after
the termination or cancellation of a registration.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.24 CONSTRUCTION BOND.
   (A)   Prior to issuing a permit where the work under the permit will require
restoration of public rights-of-way, the communications services provider or
the contractor performing such work on its behalf shall obtain, pay for and
file with the city a construction bond. The construction bond shall serve to
guarantee the timeliness and quality of the construction and restoration work,
and to secure, and enable the city to recover, all costs related to the
restoration of the public rights-of-way in the event the communications
services provider or its contractor fails to make such restoration to the
city's satisfaction or causes damage to the public rights-of-way during
construction. The construction bond must name the city as obligee and be in the
face amount of $15,000 conditioned upon the full and faithful completion of
construction and restoration of the public rights-of-way to its original
condition. Six months following completion and inspection of the restoration of
the public rights-of-way satisfactory to the City Engineer, the communications
services provider or its contractor, as the case may be, may reduce the face
amount of the construction bond to $5,000 and, thereafter, may allow the bond
to lapse in accordance with its terms. However, for any subsequent work in the
public rights-of-way, the communications services provider or its contractor
will be required to replenish any existing construction bond or provide a new
construction bond in the face amount of $15,000. The construction bond shall be
in a form acceptable to the City Attorney and must be issued by a surety having
a rating reasonably acceptable to the City Engineer and authorized by the
Florida Department of Insurance to issue surety bonds in this state. The
construction bond must be issued as non-cancelable and be for a term of not
less than 12 months and not more than 18 months. In the event the term of any
construction bond expires, or is reasonably expected to expire, prior to the
completion of construction, restoration and city inspection, the communications
services provider, or the contractor acting on its behalf, shall immediately
obtain, pay for, and file with the city a replacement bond.
   (B)   The city's requirement of a construction bond is not in lieu of any
additional bonds that may be required under this chapter or through the
permitting process. The city's right to recover under the construction bond
shall be in addition to all other rights of the city, whether reserved in this
chapter, or authorized by other law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a
right with respect to the construction bond will affect or preclude any other
right the city may have.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.25 ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   A communications services provider's failure to comply with provisions
of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall subject
the communications services provider to the code enforcement provisions and
procedures as provided in
Chapter 37. In addition, violation of this chapter may be punishable as
provided in F.S. § 162.22.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter shall be deemed to bar the right of the
city to seek or obtain judicial relief from a violation of any provisions of
this chapter, the registration provisions, or any rule, regulation, or general
condition provided for hereunder, whether administratively, judicially or both.
Neither the existence of other remedies identified in this chapter nor the
exercise thereof shall be deemed to bar or otherwise limit the right of the
city to recover fines, penalties, or monetary damages (except where liquidated
damages are otherwise prescribed) for such violation by the communications
services provider. The remedies available to the city shall be cumulative and
in addition to any other remedies provided by law or equity. The laws of the
State of Florida shall govern with respect to any proceeding in law or equity
pertaining to the enforcement of this chapter or any cause or action arising
out of or in connection herewith.
   (C)   In any proceeding before the City Commission where there exists an
issue with respect to a communications services provider's performance of its
obligations pursuant to this chapter, the communications services provider
shall be given the opportunity to provide such information as it may have
concerning its compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter. The
city may find a communications services provider that does not demonstrate
compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter in default and apply
any appropriate remedy or remedies as authorized by this chapter. In
determining which remedy is appropriate, the City Commission shall take into
consideration the nature of the violation, the person bearing the impact of the
violation, the nature of the remedy required in order to prevent further
violations, and such other matters as the City Commission determines are
appropriate to the public interest.
   (D)   Failure of the city to enforce any requirements of this chapter shall
not constitute a waiver of the city right to enforce that violation or
subsequent violations of the same type or to seek appropriate enforcement
remedies.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.26 ABANDONMENT OF A COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.
   (A)   Upon abandonment of a communications facility owned by a
communications services provider in the public rights-of-way, the
communications services provider shall notify the city within 60 days.
   (B)   The city may direct the communications services provider, by written
notice, to remove all or any portion of such abandoned facility at the
communications services provider's sole expense if the city determines that the
abandoned facility's presence interferes with the public health, safety or
welfare, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, a determination that
such facility: (1) compromises safety at any time for any public rights-of-way
user; (2) compromises the safety of other persons performing placement or
maintenance of communications facilities in the public rights-of-way; (3)
prevents another person from locating facilities in the area of public rights-
of-way where the abandoned facility is located, when other alternative
locations are not reasonably available; or (4) creates a maintenance condition
that is disruptive to the use of the public rights-of-way's use. In the event
of (2), the city may require the third person to coordinate with the
communications services provider that owns the existing facility for joint
removal and placement, where agreed to by the registrant.
   (C)   In the event that the city does not direct the removal of the
abandoned facility, the communications services provider, by its notice of
abandonment to the city, shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by the city or another person at
such third party's cost.
   (D)   If the communications services provider fails to remove all or any
portion of an abandoned facility as directed by the city within the time period
specified in the written notice, which time period must be reasonable under the
circumstances, the city may perform such removal and charge the cost of the
removal against the communications services provider.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.27 FORCE MAJEURE.
   In the event a communications services provider's performance of or
compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter is prevented by a cause
or event not within the communications services provider's control, such
inability to perform or comply shall be deemed excused and no penalties or
sanctions shall be imposed as a result; provided, however, that such
communications services provider uses all practicable means to expeditiously
cure or correct any such inability to perform or comply. For purposes of this
chapter, causes or events not within a communications services provider's
control shall include, without limitation, acts of God, floods, earthquakes,
landslides, hurricanes, fires and other natural disasters, acts of public
enemies, riots or civil disturbances, sabotage, strikes and restraints imposed
by order of a governmental agency or court. Causes or events within
communications services provider's control, and thus not falling within this
section, shall include, without limitation, communications services provider's
financial inability to perform or comply, economic hardship, and misfeasance,
malfeasance or nonfeasance by any of communications services provider's
directors, officers, employees, contractors or agents.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.28 FEES APPLICABLE TO THOSE NOT SUBJECT TO COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES TAX.
   While the Florida Legislature has prohibited municipalities from requiring
providers of communications services who have registered with the Florida
Department of Revenue from having to enter into franchise agreements or license
arrangements as a condition to placing or maintaining communications facilities
in the public rights-of- way, the city expressly reserves the right to require
the payment of consideration or regulatory fees by persons using or occupying
the public rights-of-way in other capacities. The city reserves the right to
require such payments based on the type of user and to the extent as follows:
   (A)   Dealer. Except as provided elsewhere, a communications services
provider who meets the definition of dealer as set forth in this chapter and
who has registered in accordance with §
97.05 is not required to enter into a franchise agreement or license
arrangement with the city as a condition to placing or maintaining
communications facilities in the public rights-of- way, nor is a dealer
required to make payment of any franchise fees, license fees or other user fees
to the city as consideration for the use or occupancy of the public rights-of-
way for the provision of communication services.
   (B)   Pass-through provider and pass- through facilities. A communications
services provider who meets the definition of pass-through provider as set
forth in this chapter and who is not subject to the city's local communications
services tax imposed pursuant to F.S. §§ 202.19 and 202.20, shall pay the city
the maximum annual amount allowed under F.S. § 337.401(6)(b), as amended. For
purposes of calculating payments hereunder, each separate pole or tower
installed or maintained by a pass-through provider for purposes of supporting
antennas for other over- the-air radio transmission or reception equipment in
the public rights-of-way shall comprise a separate communications facility
subject to assessment of a separate permit fee in the amount of $500 per linear
mile, or portion thereof, up to the maximum amount allowed under F.S. § 337.401
(6)(b), whichever is higher. The annual amount referred to above shall be due
and payable on October 1 of every year beginning on October 1, 2020. Fees not
paid within ten days after the due date shall bear interest at the rate of one
percent per month from the date due until paid. The acceptance of any payment
required hereunder by the city shall not be construed as an acknowledgment that
the amount paid is the correct amount due, nor shall such acceptance of payment
be construed as a release of any claim which the city may have for additional
sums due and payable or authorization to install any facilities in the public
rights-of-way.
   (C)   Other persons. All other persons, except government, are required to
pay the city, as consideration for the use or occupancy of the public rights-
of-way for the placement or maintenance of communications facilities, an amount
based on and in accordance with City Code.
   (D)   Government. A government is not required to pay the city consideration
for the use or occupancy of the public rights-of-way for the placement or
maintenance of communications facilities, unless such facilities are being used
by such government or a communications services provider, including resellers,
to offer or provide communication services other than for such government's
internal non-commercial use, in which event the government, where not subject
to the city's local communications services tax imposed pursuant to F.S. §§
202.19 and 202.20, is required to pay the city, as consideration for the use or
occupancy of the public rights-of-way by or through its facilities an amount
based on and in accordance with City Code or such other amount or rate of
compensation as mutually agreed to in writing by the government and the city.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.29 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The city hereby expressly reserves all the following rights:
      (1)   To exercise its municipal home rule powers, now or hereafter, to
the fullest extent allowed by law with regard to the access, use and regulation
of the public rights-of-way;
      (2)   To amend this chapter as it shall find necessary in the lawful
exercise of its municipal authority and police powers;
      (3)   To adopt or enact by resolution or ordinance, in addition to the
provisions contained herein and in any existing applicable ordinances, such
additional reasonable regulations as the City Commission finds necessary in the
exercise of the city's police powers;
      (4)   To exercise the power of eminent domain, consistent with applicable
federal and state law, to acquire property that may include that property owned
or leased by a communications services provider;
      (5)   As and when deemed necessary by the City Commission to be in the
interest of the city or its residents, to abandon portions of the public
rights-of-way within the proper exercise of its municipal authority and without
notice to or the consent of any communications services provider. The city
shall not be responsible for any costs, damages, loss or other expense to the
communications services provider as a result of the city's abandonment of any
public rights-of-way.
      (6)   To place and maintain, and permit to be placed or maintained,
sewer, gas, water, electric, storm drainage, communications, and other types of
facilities, cables or conduit, and to do, and to permit to be done any
underground and overhead installation or improvement that may be deemed
necessary or proper by the city in the public rights-of-way occupied by any
communications services provider;
      (7)   Without limitation, to alter, change, or cause to be changed, the
grading, installation, relocation, or width of any public rights-of-way within
the limits of the city and within said limits as same may from time to time be
altered;
      (8)   To require a reseller to register in accordance with §
97.05 to the extent such reseller wants the right to place or maintain
facilities in the public rights-of-way. Any person using or leasing facilities
owned by a registered communications services provider is not, therefore,
entitled to any rights to place or maintain communications facilities in the
public rights-of-way, unless such person themselves registers with the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be applicable to all communications facilities
placed in the public rights-of-way on or after the effective date of this
chapter and shall apply to all existing communications facilities in the public
rights-of- way prior to the effective date of this chapter, to the full extent
permitted by state and federal law.
   (C)   The adoption of this chapter is not intended to affect any rights or
defenses of the city or a communications service provider under any existing
franchise, license or other agreements with a communications services provider.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the remedies the city or the
communications services provider has available under applicable law.
   (E)   Any person who uses the communications facilities of a communications
services provider, other than the communications services provider that owns
the facilities, shall not be entitled to any rights to place or maintain such
facilities in excess of the rights of the registrant that places or maintains
the facilities.
   (F)   If provisions of this chapter conflict with any other provision of the
City Code of Ordinances, or the land development regulations, the more
restrictive provisions shall govern.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.30 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN ELIGIBLE FACILITIES MODIFICATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the city shall not
deny any eligible facilities request for a modification to an existing wireless
tower or base station which does not substantially change the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station provided the procedure and
requirements set forth in Chapter 154 are satisfied.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.31 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS; PREEMPTION.
   In implementing this chapter and the provisions set forth herein, the city
shall comply with applicable state and federal regulations, and the provisions
of this chapter shall be given force to the maximum amount and greatest extent
permissible under state and federal law. In the event any provision of this
chapter is specifically preempted, or judicially determined to be preempted by
state or federal law, then the preempted provision shall automatically be
deemed null and void and the superseding provision of state or federal law
shall prevail.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 97.32 PERMANENT PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The city is concerned that, based on past experience in the city and
throughout the state, the placement and maintenance of communications
facilities in the public rights-of- way has the potential to cause significant
damage to the public rights-of-way and to other utilities within the public
rights-of-way, creating disruption to the city, to businesses, to residents and
to the traveling public. In addition, the city is concerned that it will not be
able to obtain adequate security to address damage to its rights- of-way or to
utilities within the public rights-of- way, because of restrictions on
construction bonds, placement and maintenance of facilities that may occur
lawfully or unlawfully without permits, inaccurate locates, permits issued by
other government entities within the city that could impact city utilities, and
other issues associated with such facilities in the public rights-of-way.
Accordingly, pursuant to the city's authority and obligation to manage the
public rights-of-way and to provide for the public safety in the exercise of
its police power, and to the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, the
city shall require all persons that place or maintain communications facilities
in the public rights-of- way to establish a permanent performance bond in the
city's favor.
   (B)   A registrant or facility owner who places or maintains communications
facilities in the public rights-of-way, shall file with the city, for city
approval, a permanent performance bond in the amount of $25,000, in the form of
a cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit. Any cash deposit shall be held
in a separate account or city account. The letter of credit shall be issued by
a United States financial institution that allows drawing on the letter of
credit via electronic means including facsimile, agrees to the jurisdiction of
the appropriate court within the county, and shall be in a form and issued by a
financial institution acceptable to the City Attorney. The permanent
performance bond shall be conditioned on the full and faithful performance by
the registrant or facility owner of all requirements, duties, and obligations
imposed by the provisions of this chapter and applicable law, including, but
not limited to requirements to restore the public rights-of-way and to
guarantee such restoration, to remove any abandoned communications facilities,
to indemnify the city as required herein, and to pay for any damage to city or
other facilities in the public rights-of-way. The permanent performance bond
shall not constitute a fee, tax or other imposition on a dealer of
communications services in its capacity as a dealer of communications services
or compensation for use of the public rights-of-way and shall not be used by
the city as such. Should the city draw upon the permanent performance bond, the
city shall promptly notify the registrant, and the registrant shall promptly
restore the cash deposit and/or letter of credit, as may be necessary, to the
full amount. In the event a registrant fails to perform its duties and
obligations imposed by the provisions of this chapter, subject to providing
prior notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure the failure, there shall be
recoverable, jointly and severally from the principal and surety of the
permanent performance bond, including a letter of credit, any damages or loss
suffered by the city as a result, including the full amount of any damages,
indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of any property of the
registrant, plus a reasonable allowance for attorneys' fees. The cash deposit
or letter of credit shall be furnished annually or as frequently as necessary
to provide a continuing guarantee of the person's full and faithful performance
at all times. A registrant may change the form of the permanent performance
bond on file with the city on an annual basis. A registrant may request that
the city return the permanent performance bond or approve the cancellation of
the performance bond upon the expiration of a registrant's obligations pursuant
to the City Code and in no event while a registrant maintains any obligations
with respect to facilities in the public rights-of-way. If the city determines
it is appropriate to return the permanent performance bond, a cash deposit
retained by the city shall be returned without interest.
   (C)   For new registrants seeking to place or to maintain communications
facilities in the public rights-of-way, the permanent performance bond required
herein must be filed with the city prior to the placement or maintenance of a
communications facility in the public rights-of-way. For existing registrants,
permanent performance bonds currently on file with the city, either in the form
of a cash deposit or letter of credit, shall satisfy the requirement of this
division and shall continue to be maintained by the city. To the extent that a
communications services provider, wireless provider, or pass- through provider
with facilities in the public rights-of-way, does not have a permanent
performance bond filed with the city as required herein, said person shall
submit the permanent performance bond as provided herein within 90 calendar
days from the effective date of this chapter. No permits shall be issued to a
person for placement or maintenance of facilities within the public rights-of-
way without a permanent performance bond filed with the city. For activity that
does not require a permit, no placement or maintenance of a communications
facility in the public rights-of-way shall be performed by a person that does
not have a permanent performance bond on file with the city. In addition to
other remedies provided herein, including, but not limited to, revoking a
registration, denying or withholding permits, or issuing a stop work order, the
city may pursue code enforcement actions against any person who violates this
section.
   (D)   Any person who seeks a waiver of the requirement of a permanent
performance bond or seeks to pursue a challenge to such requirement shall
submit an appeal to the City Manager setting forth the basis for such person's
position, pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. The City
Manager shall render a decision which the person may appeal, pursuant to the
procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
CHAPTER 98: EMERGENCIES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Conflicts
   
98.03   Applicability of provisions
   
98.04   Emergencies and city finances
   
98.05   Emergency management structure
   
98.06   Powers, duties and responsibilities of the City Manager/Director of
Emergency Management
   
98.07   Emergency orders and rules necessary for emergency management purposes;
implementing administrative actions and authority of the City Manager
   
98.08   Expiration and extension of non-weather-related emergency orders
limiting rights and liberties
   
98.09   Expiration and extension of natural emergency orders
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purpose of this chapter, the city adopts the definitions F.S. §
252.34.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      "CITY MANAGER." Also means the City Manager's designee or the Assistant
City Manager.
      "EMERGENCY." Any occurrence, or threat thereof, whether natural,
technological or manmade, in war or in peace, that results or may result in
substantial injury or harm to the population or substantial damage to or loss
of property.
      "EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT." The preparation for, the mitigation of, the
response to, and the recovery from emergencies and disasters. Specific
emergency management responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Reduction of vulnerability of people and communities of this
state to damage, injury and loss of life and property resulting from natural,
technological or manmade emergencies or hostile military or paramilitary
action;
         (b)   Preparation for prompt and efficient response and recovery to
protect lives and property affected by emergencies;
         (c)   Response to emergencies, using all systems, plans and resources
necessary to adequately preserve the health, safety and welfare of persons or
property affected by the emergency.
         (d)   Recovery from emergencies by providing for the rapid and orderly
start of restoration and rehabilitation of persons and property affected by
emergencies;
         (e)   Provision of an emergency management system embodying all
aspects of pre-emergency preparedness and post-emergency response, recovery and
mitigation.
         (f)   Assistance in anticipation, recognition, appraisal, prevention
and mitigation of emergencies that may be caused or aggravated by inadequate
planning for, and regulation of, public and private facilities and land use.
      "NATURAL EMERGENCY." An emergency caused by a natural event, including,
but not limited to, a hurricane, a storm, a flood, severe wave action, a
drought or an earthquake.
      "PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY." Any occurrence, or threat thereof, whether
natural or manmade, that results or may result in substantial injury or harm to
the public health from infectious disease, chemical agents, nuclear agents,
biological toxins, or situations involving mass casualties or natural
disasters, declared as a public health emergency as declared by the State
Health Officer.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.02 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of any conflict between this chapter and the preemptive Florida
Statutes, the statutes will govern.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.03 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All persons, officers, employees, contractors, vendors, boards,
commissions and all other agencies of the city are subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall comply with the provisions of F.S. Ch. 252 and other
controlling law regarding addressing emergency matters and the management of
emergencies, and shall coordinate its programs, plans and activities with the
state government, the county government and all other appropriate government
agencies and entities. The city will rely upon the emergency management
practices and programs of the state and county to the maximum extent feasible
while using its law enforcement, fire suppression, medical and other personnel
in all appropriate ways and means to serve the citizens of the City of Lake
Mary.
   (C)   The city will engage in an ongoing disaster and emergency management
planning and preparation of educational programs for the benefit of the
citizens, property owners and businesses of the city.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.04 EMERGENCIES AND CITY FINANCES.
   (A)   Regarding any funds received from the State Emergency Preparedness and
Response Fund or any related or similar state funding source, the city
department that applied for or is managing the funds, or such city employee as
designated by the City Manager, shall develop a detailed spending plan for any
grants, gifts, loans, funds, payments, services, equipment, supplies or
materials in aid of or for the purposes of emergency prevention, recovery,
mitigation, preparedness and management, other than emergency response. The
plan must be submitted as soon as practicable, but not later than 30 days after
initiation of any expenditures, and must be resubmitted every 30 days as long
as an emergency continues and funds continue to be disbursed.
   (B)   Regarding emergency response activities, including protective measures
or debris removal, the city's Finance Director is not required to provide a
detailed spending plan in advance of expenditures, but must provide notice as
required under the statutes.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.05 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The City Manager shall perform the function of Director of Emergency
Management; and shall implement, manage and report to the City Commission on
all actions authorized and taken under the provisions of this chapter, to
include, but not be limited to, the supervision and development and maintenance
of city emergency plans, which shall include annual updates and post-action
evaluations.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or designee will be the Coordinator of Emergency
Management, which position entails the ongoing planning for and coordination of
those actions necessary for the creation and maintenance of an effective
emergency response capability to prepare for and manage emergency conditions.
   (C)   The City Manager may delegate additional responsibilities to the Fire
Chief, and may authorize the Police Chief and the Fire Chief to enter
memorandums of understanding, mutual aid agreements, or similar agreements with
other jurisdictions and agencies to address ongoing emergency management
matters and future potential activities.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.06 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY MANAGER/DIRECTOR OF
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager, when acting as the Director of Emergency Management,
is delegated the powers set out in F.S. § 252.38(2) through (4) in addressing
matters relating to emergencies, including, but not limited to, waiving the
standard procedures and formalities otherwise required pertaining to:
      (1)   Performance of public work and taking whatever prudent action is
necessary to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the community;
      (2)   Entering into contracts;
      (3)   Incurring obligations;
      (4)   Employment of permanent and temporary workers;
      (5)   Utilization of volunteer workers;
      (6)   Rental of equipment;
      (7)   Acquisition and distribution, with or without compensation, of
supplies, materials, and facilities;
      (8)   Appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
   (B)   All actions by the City Manager involving waiving standard procedures
shall be reported to the City Commission within a time that is practicable
under the circumstances. An objection may be filed by any City Commissioner
with the City Clerk within 24 hours of receipt of the report, and the City
Clerk shall schedule a meeting of the City Commission as soon as reasonably
practicable to hear, and act upon, the objection.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.07 EMERGENCY ORDERS AND RULES NECESSARY FOR EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PURPOSES;
IMPLEMENTING ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS AND AUTHORITY OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Both the City Commission and the City Manager have the authority, in
accordance with the provisions of F.S. Ch. 120, to make, amend and rescind such
emergency orders and rules as are necessary for emergency management purposes,
and to supplement the Florida Statutes. To the extent that a general emergency
order issued by the city does not contain specific requirements, the City
Manager may administratively implement such emergency orders by adopting
implementing rules.
   (B)   All emergency orders and rules adopted by the City Commission or City
Manager shall have full force and effect of law after adoption when filed in
the office of the City Clerk, in accordance with the provisions of F.S. Ch.
120. Failure to file any such emergency order or rule with the office of the
City Clerk within three days after issuance voids the emergency order or rule.
   (C)   Emergency ordinances, declarations, and emergency orders adopted by
the city under the authority of F.S. §§ 252.31 through 252.90, including those
enacted pursuant to F.S. § 166.041(3)(b), must also be available on a dedicated
city webpage accessible through a conspicuous link on the homepage. The
dedicated webpage shall identify the emergency ordinances, declarations, and
emergency orders currently in effect. The city shall provide the appropriate
state agencies and the county with the link to the city's dedicated webpage.
   (D)   Without in any way limiting any provision of this chapter, the City
Manager is authorized to take all necessary actions to implement the provisions
of this chapter. This chapter does not limit the administrative authority of
the City Manager to act under the authority of the City Charter and the City
Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.08 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF NON-WEATHER-RELATED EMERGENCY ORDERS
LIMITING RIGHTS AND LIBERTIES.
   (A)   As used in this division only, the term "EMERGENCY ORDER" means an
order or ordinance issued or enacted by the city in response to a non-weather-
related emergency pursuant to F.S. Ch. 252 or 381 that limits the rights or
liberties of individuals or businesses within the city. The term does not apply
to orders issued in response to hurricanes or other weather-related
emergencies, which are addressed in §
98.09 .
   (B)   A non-weather-related emergency order that limits rights or liberties
must be narrowly tailored to serve a compelling public health or safety
purpose. Any such emergency order must be limited in duration, applicability
and scope in order to reduce any infringement on individual rights or liberties
to the greatest extent possible.
   (C)   A non-weather-related emergency order limiting rights or liberties
automatically expires seven days after issuance, but may be extended by a
majority vote of the City Commission, as necessary, in seven-day increments,
for a total duration of not more than 42 days.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
§ 98.09 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION OF NATURAL EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   (A)   The duration of each local state of natural emergency is limited to
seven days; it may be extended, as necessary, in seven-day increments by the
City Commission; or, if delegated authority by the City Commission, by the City
Manager.
   (B)   The provisions of §
98.08 do not apply to natural emergency orders.
(Ord. 1654, passed 1-20-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   BUSINESS TAXES
      
112.   PRECIOUS OR FABRICATED METAL DEALERS
      
113.   MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CODE
      
116.   CONVENIENCE BUSINESS SECURITY
      
117.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
110.01   Grant of franchise; term
   
110.02   Conditions and requirements
   
110.03   Liability and indemnity; bond
   
110.04   Operation and maintenance
   
110.05   Public service installations
   
110.06   Assignment, sale, sub-leasing restricted
   
110.07   Franchise fee; financial statement
   
110.08   City rights
   
110.09   Maps and reports
   
110.10   Rates
   
110.11   Construction
   
110.12   Technical requirements
   
110.13   Safety requirements
   
110.14   Franchise to extend to annexed territory
   
110.15   Franchise exclusive
   
110.16   Forfeiture of franchise
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 GRANT OF FRANCHISE; TERM.
   The city hereby grants to Sanlando Cablevision, Inc., a Florida corporation,
herein called "grantee", the right and privilege to install, maintain, and
operate within the right-of-way, except as hereafter limited, of all public
streets, parkways, alleys, and utility easement strips within the city, herein
for convenience called "streets", its cables and other conductors, not
including antennas, with the necessary appurtenances, herein called grantee's
"system", for distribution of television signals, frequency-modulated radio
signals, and closed circuit television programs to grantee's subscribers, for
the period of time beginning on the effective date of this chapter and ending
on its tenth anniversary date.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.02 CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   This grant is made upon the following conditions, limitations, and
requirements.
   (A)   All installations shall be done only in accordance with plans first
submitted to and approved by the city, and any repair work which requires the
disturbance of the surface of any street or which will interfere with traffic
shall not be undertaken without prior permission and approval of the time and
manner of doing the work, as required in all other cases.
   (B)   The grantee's system shall be installed aboveground in areas where
existing power and telephone facilities are aboveground, and underground in
areas where existing power and telephone facilities are installed underground.
The grantee shall have the right to enter into agreements with any person,
firm, or corporation now or hereafter authorized by license, franchise, or
otherwise to erect and maintain overhead or underground wires and cables, for
the purpose of sharing these facilities, it being the intent hereof that all
aboveground installations of the grantee's system shall be accomplished on
existing utility poles and easements where feasible. The grantee shall relocate
any aboveground portion of its system underground in any area where existing
power and telephone facilities are hereafter so relocated. Such relocation
shall be at the grantee's expense, and shall be accomplished concurrently with
the relocation of any power and telephone facilities.
   (C)   The right to the use of the city's streets herein granted is subject
to the terms of all rights or franchises heretofore granted by the city, and to
the terms of all rights or franchises hereafter granted by the city to the
Electric Utility Company or to a company primarily engaged in the rendering of
telephone service.
   (D)   All installations shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner. All
construction shall conform to the requirements of the National Electric Safety
Code and any federal, state, or local statutes, regulations, and ordinances
governing these or similar installations.
   (E)   Where in doing its work the grantee disturbs any pavement or other
improvements, the grantee shall promptly repair and replace them in a neat and
workmanlike manner as nearly equal to its original condition as possible.
   (F)   The grantee's work, while in progress, shall be properly protected at
all times with suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares, or other devices to
protect all members of the public having occasion to use the portion of the
streets involved or adjacent property.
   (G)   The grantee shall promptly and at its own expense relocate or modify
any part of its system which the city may request to accommodate improvements
to streets, to accommodate city sewer, water, electric, communications, or
other facilities occupying any part of the public streets, and to accommodate
the facilities of other public utilities, as required by the city or other
public authority having jurisdiction.
   (H)   The city shall have free use of any poles in the grantee's system to
carry conductors for any city-owned or city-franchised electric or
communication system.
   (I)   The grantee shall, at the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings or structures. The expense of the temporary
removal or raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting
it, and the grantee shall have the authority to require payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than 48 hours advance notice to arrange for
temporary wire changes.
   (J)   It is understood that there may be from time to time within the city
various streets as defined in §
110.01 which the city does not have the unqualified right to authorize the
grantee to use, because of reservations in favor of the dedicators or because
of other legal impediments. Therefore, in making this grant, the city does not
warrant or represent as to any particular street or portion of a street that it
has the right to authorize the grantee to install or maintain portions of its
system therein, and in each case the burden and responsibility for making the
determination in advance of the installation shall be on the grantee.
   (K)   The grantee shall not engage, either directly or indirectly, in the
sale, installation, or repair of any radio or television equipment for any
purchaser of its services, or for any other person, firm, or corporation within
the city. This limitation shall not prohibit the grantee from repairing or
servicing its own system.
   (L)   The grantee shall have the privilege of programming and broadcasting
programs on closed circuit channels, and no signals shall be altered or
modified by the grantee in any respect except as required by a state or federal
agency having jurisdiction over the grantee's activities.
   (M)   If the grantee fails to make any repair, remove or relocate any part
of its system, or otherwise perform its obligations hereunder within a
customarily reasonable time and in a workmanlike manner, then the city is
authorized to do so at the grantee's expense, and the grantee shall reimburse
the city for the cost thereof promptly on receipt of an invoice.
   (N)   The grantee shall permit the city to inspect and test the system's
technical equipment and facilities upon reasonable (12 to 24 hours) notice.
   (O)   Any pavements, sidewalks, curbing, or other paved areas taken up or
any excavations made by the grantee shall be done under the supervision and
direction of the city under permits issued for work by the proper officials of
the city, and shall be done in a manner so as to give the least inconvenience
to the inhabitants of the city. The grantee shall, at its own cost and expense,
and in a manner approved by the city, replace and restore all pavements,
sidewalks, curbing, or other paved areas to as good a condition as before the
work involving the disturbance was done, and shall also make and keep full and
complete plats, maps, and records showing the exact locations of its facilities
located within the public streets, ways, and easements of the city. These maps
shall be available for inspection at any time during business hours by the
city.
   (P)   The grantee shall have authority to trim the trees on and overhanging
the public streets so as to prevent the branches of the trees from coming in
contact with the wires and cables of the grantee. However, at the option of the
franchise authority, the trimming may be done by it or under its supervision
and direction at the expense of the grantee.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.03 LIABILITY AND INDEMNITY; BOND.
   (A)   It is expressly understood and agreed upon by and between the grantee
and the city that the grantee shall save the city harmless from all loss
sustained by the city on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim, or
demand whatsoever arising out of the construction, operation, maintenance, or
removal of the system or any portion thereof by the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of this franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the terms of this
franchise liability insurance insuring the city and the grantee with regard to
all damages mentioned in division (A) above in the following minimum amounts.
      (1)   $500,000 for bodily injury or death to any one person, within the
limit, however, of $1,000,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from any one
accident.
      (2)   $250,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident.
      (3)   $250,000 for all other types of liability.
   (C)   The grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of this franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the terms of this
franchise a faithful performance bond running to the city with at least two
good and sufficient sureties approved by the city, in the penal sum of $100,000
conditioned that the grantee shall well and truly observe, fulfill, and perform
each term and condition of this franchise and that in case of any breach, the
amount shall be recoverable from the principal and sureties thereof by the city
for damages proximately resulting from the failure of the grantee to well and
faithfully observe and perform any provision of this franchise including a
reasonable allowance for attorney's fees and costs to the prevailing party.
   (D)   The insurance policy and bond obtained by the grantee in compliance
with this section have herewith been filed with and approved by the City
Council, and the insurance policy and bond, along with written evidence of
payment of required premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the City Clerk
during the term of this franchise. The bond shall provide for 30 days prior
written notice to the city of any intention on the part of the grantee to
cancel, fail to renew, or otherwise materially alter its terms.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.04 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Interruptions shall, insofar as possible, be preceded by notice to affected
subscribers, and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the system.
   (B)   The grantee shall at all times be solely responsible for complying
fully with all applicable regulations from time to time established by the
Federal Communications Commission and any other agency which now or hereafter
has jurisdiction over the CATV activities of the grantee, including the State
Public Service Commission.
   (C)   The grantee expressly undertakes and agrees that it will at all times
during the term hereof transmit signals of strength and quality, and use all
materials and components necessary to insure that the grantee's subscribers
will receive a quality of CATV service in keeping with the highest standards of
the television industry.
   (D)   The grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care, and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances
to the public.
   (E)   On termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its facilities and equipment from the premises of the
subscriber at his request.
   (F)   The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service, service
facilities, rules, regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant any
undue preference or advantage to any person, nor subject any person to
prejudice or disadvantage.
   (G)   The city shall not be liable for any damage occurring to the property
of the grantee caused by the employees of the city in the performance of their
duties; the interruption of service by actions of city employees in the
performance of their duties; or the failure of the grantee to be able to
perform normal services due to an act or acts of God.
   (H)   Maintain all parts of its system in good condition and in accordance
with standards generally observed by the cable television industry. Sufficient
employees shall be retained to provide safe, adequate, and prompt service for
all of its facilities.
   (I)   Maintain a conveniently-located business office and service center to
which subscribers may telephone without incurring added message units or toll
charges. This office shall be open during all usual business hours, and be so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received by telephone at any time when any television signals are being
broadcast.
   (J)   Dispatch personnel to investigate all service complaints and equipment
malfunctions within 24 hours and strive to resolve the complaints as promptly
as possible. Planned interruption of service shall be only for good cause.
Insofar as possible, planned service interruptions shall be preceded by notice,
be of brief duration, and occur during minimum viewing hours.
   (K)   Maintain a complete list of all complaints received and the measures
taken to resolve them in form to be approved by the city. This list shall be
available to the city on request.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.05 PUBLIC SERVICE INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The grantee shall provide its CATV service without installation or
monthly service charge to any or all of the following buildings or facilities
within the city if requested to do so by the city, and if the grantee's system
has been extended to within 100 yards of the site, measured by straight line:
public, private, or parochial schools or colleges; and municipal offices.
   (B)   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, on
request of the City Council, make available its facilities to the city for
emergency use during the emergency or disaster period.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.06 ASSIGNMENT, SALE, SUB-LEASING RESTRICTED.
   The rights and privileges hereby granted shall not be sold, assigned,
transferred, or sublet in whole or in part, either directly or by operation of
law, nor shall the grantee's system or any part of it be sold, transferred,
rented, or subleased, nor shall the grantee mortgage or encumber the rights and
privileges herein granted without the prior consent of the City Council, given
by resolution. Permission for assignments, mortgages, or other liens on this
franchise or on the grantee's system, shall not be unreasonably withheld in the
event that the assignment, lien, or encumbrance is made for the purpose of
improving or expanding the existing network facilities. Prior approval of the
city shall be required where ownership or control of more than 30% of the right
of control of the grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already own or control 30% or more of such right of
control, singularly or collectively. By its acceptance of this franchise, the
grantee specifically agrees that any violation of this section shall constitute
a material violation of this franchise by the grantee.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.07 FRANCHISE FEE; FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The grantee shall pay to the city a reasonable franchise fee for the
use of public rights-of-way within city. This franchise fee shall be the
greater of the following sums.
      (1)   The grantee shall pay to the city 3% of the grantee's gross
subscriber revenues per year from regular CATV and Pay TV in the city
(including all forms of consideration, such as initial lump sum payments).
      (2)   In the alternative, the grantee shall pay 2% of the grantee's gross
revenues per year from any and all cable operations in the city (including
consideration derived from auxiliary services such as Pay Cable and
advertising).
   (B)   The grantee shall file with the city, within 90 days after the
expiration of any calendar year or portion thereof during which its franchise
is in force, a financial statement certified by a responsible officer of the
grantee, showing in detail the gross subscriber revenues, as defined herein, of
the grantee during the preceding calendar year or portion thereof. It shall be
the duty of the grantee to pay the city within 15 days after the time for
filing the statement, the sum prescribed above.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to inspect the grantee's records showing
the gross subscriber revenues from which its franchise payments are computed
and shall also have the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts
paid under this chapter. No acceptance of payment shall be construed as a
release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the city may have for
further or additional sums payable under this chapter or for the performance of
any other obligation hereunder; however, an accounting rendered to the city and
to which no exception is made within three years after receipt by the city
shall be deemed to be accurate and shall not thereafter be subject to question
or made the basis of any claim by the city against the grantee.
   (D)   If allowed and not prohibited by Federal Communications Commission
regulations, the franchise fee imposed herein shall be increased to the maximum
allowable. If the fees are completely deregulated, the rates received by the
city herein shall be renegotiated with the franchise herein and if no agreement
is reached, then this franchise shall terminate.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.08 CITY RIGHTS.
   (A)   The right is hereby reserved to the city to adopt, in addition to the
provisions contained herein and in existing applicable ordinances, any
additional regulations it shall find necessary in the exercise of the police
power. These regulations, by ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable and
not in conflict with the rights herein granted.
   (B)   At the expiration of the term for which this franchise is granted,
this franchise may be renewed by the city for successive ten-year periods on
the written request of the grantee without soliciting additional applications.
A renewal request shall be filed at least six but not more than 18 months prior
to the expiration of the term of this franchise. A renewal request may propose
modifications in the terms of the grantee's franchise which shall be considered
by the city, but in any case, the city may, on its own motion, modify the terms
of the grantee's franchise subject to the conditions set forth in division (C)
below.
   (C)   On receipt of a request for a renewal of the franchise, the city shall
schedule a public hearing on the matter, giving at least 30 days notice of the
hearing and any franchise modifications proposed by either the grantee or the
city. After hearing all the evidence, opinions, and representations, the city
shall then render a decision to renew or not to renew the grantee's franchise,
and if the former course is taken, whether or not its franchise should be
modified in any way. The grantee shall file its acceptance of a renewal
franchise within 30 days after it is offered by the city and on failure to do
so, shall be conclusively presumed to have consented to the expiration of its
franchise.
   (D)   In the event of nonrenewal or termination of a franchise, the city
hereby agrees to require any successor grantee to purchase the grantee's
facilities at a cost not to exceed its then fair market value provided the city
has the legal authority to do so, with a reduction for any uncompensated
damages incurred by the city in connection with the grantee's operation. If the
fair market value cannot be agreed on by the parties, it shall be determined by
a three member arbitration panel, one member to be selected by the successor
grantee, one by the grantee, and the third member by the two members first
named. The parties shall divide the expenses of arbitration evenly among
themselves.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.09 MAPS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall file with the City Clerk true and accurate maps or
plats of all existing and proposed installations.
   (B)   The grantee shall file annually with the City Clerk not later than 60
days after the end of the grantee's fiscal year, a copy of its report to its
stockholders (if it prepares such a report), an income statement applicable to
its operations during the preceding 12-month period, a balance sheet, and a
statement of its properties devoted to CATV operations, by categories, giving
its investment in the properties on the basis of original cost, less applicable
depreciation. The grantee shall submit other reasonable information as the City
Council shall request with respect to the grantee's properties and expenses
related to its CATV operations within the city.
   (C)   The grantee shall keep on file with the City Clerk a current list of
its officers and administrative officials, shareholders, and bondholders.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.10 RATES.
   (A)   Any franchise issued hereunder shall set forth the initial rates which
the grantee may charge its subscribers on commencing service. Thereafter, these
rates shall be changed when appropriate in accordance with the provisions of
this section. Any rate established shall be reasonable, just, and fair to the
public, and shall provide the grantee a reasonable rate of return on its
investment. No rate established shall afford any undue preference or advantage
among subscribers, but separate rates may be established for separate classes
of subscribers and rates may reflect the increased costs of providing services
to isolated or sparsely populated areas.
   (B)   Changes in established rates shall be as follows.
      (1)   Within two years from the date of the franchise agreement, the
grantee may change the initial rates without authorization of the city, except
as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   During each two-year period of the franchise agreement after the
initial two years set forth in this section, the grantee may change its rates
without prior authorization of the city, provided the city has not elected to
require that changes of established rates shall be made only on authorization
by the city in the manner herein provided.
      (3)   The city may, at the expiration of the initial two-year period or
at the expiration of any two-year period thereafter, have the option and
privilege to require any change in established rates to be made only upon
authorization of the city. The city may at the expiration of any two-year
period following the expiration of the initial two-year period, have the option
and privilege to deregulate and allow the grantee to change its rates without
prior authorization of the city in accordance with the terms set forth in this
section. This option may be exercised by the city giving the grantee written
notice at least 60 days prior to the termination of any two-year interval that
changes in established rates shall from the date of the notice be made only on
authorization of the city. If the city shall not elect to regulate the rates in
the manner herein provided, then the grantee may fix and determine its rates
for the ensuing two-year period without review or approval of the city.
      (4)   No rate change shall be made by the grantee within any 90-day
period prior to the termination date of any two-year intervals provided herein.
   (C)   Upon election of the city as provided in division (B)(3) above,
changes in established rates shall be subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   Should the grantee desire to change any rate or rates, it shall
file a petition with the city at least 90 days prior to the proposed date of
change. The petition shall detail the proposed changes, setting forth the
reasons the changes are desired. Upon receipt of a petition for a rate change,
the city shall schedule and publish notice of a public hearing on the matter to
be held within 60 days from the date of receipt of the petition. At the public
hearing, all interested parties shall be heard. Evidence shall be taken and
received and all of the elements necessary shall be considered in determining
the reasonableness of the proposed rates, including the return experienced by
the company on its investment. Thereafter, the city shall decide the matter by
a majority vote and render a decision approving, disapproving, or modifying the
proposed rate changes. The decision shall set forth complete findings of fact
and conclusions regarding all of the basic elements considered in determining
the rates, as set forth above.
      (2)   If no decision is rendered by the city within 90 days after receipt
of the petition for a change of rate, the grantee may institute the proposed
changes on an interim basis. Rates charged on an interim basis shall be
conformed to the decision of city when rendered. If requested by the city, the
grantee shall post a security bond on an acceptable surety company to guarantee
any adjustments or refunds that may be required.
      (3)   Should the city desire to review rates, it shall schedule a public
hearing for that purpose at which the grantee and members of the public shall
be heard. At least 30 days notice of the hearing shall be provided. Any
decision by the city to increase or decrease rates after the hearing shall be
rendered in writing along with a statement of the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.11 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The grantee shall extend the installation of cables, amplifiers, and
related equipment throughout the area covered by its franchise as rapidly as
practicable, but, in any event, shall do the following.
      (1)   Begin engineering studies within 60 days after accepting its
franchise.
      (2)   Begin awarding contracts within 90 days after receiving
certification from the Federal Communications Commission, hereafter termed
F.C.C.
      (3)   Complete construction of its proposed system within six months
after receiving certification from the F.C.C.
      (4)   Begin rendering service to subscribers within six months after
receiving certification from the F.C.C.
      (5)   Complete construction of its proposed system (measured in terms of
total linear strand miles) within six months after receiving certification from
the F.C.C., to enable its system to serve 1,181 homes of the existing 1,207
homes currently in the city.
      (6)   After the construction the grantee shall be capable of providing
service no more than 60 days after receiving an application for service to
every dwelling unit within the franchise area except to the extent that density
of homes, adverse terrain, or other factors render making service available
impracticable. For the purposes of determining compliance with the provisions
of this division and to provide for a reasonable policy requiring extension of
energy-fed trunk lines of the cable system within the franchise area so as to
achieve compliance with the obligations imposed by this section, the grantee
shall extend lines to all areas of the franchise area having a minimum of 40
homes per street mile. In measuring street miles, the beginning point shall be
from the last subscriber unit.
      (7)   All installation charges will be waived during the first 30 days
following activation of the cable system in each neighborhood.
      (8)   File a map and progress report with the city at the close of each
calendar year, showing the exact areas of the city being served by the cable
television system and the location and identification of major component parts
of the system.
      (9)   All underground cables shall be placed at a minimum of 24 inches.
   (B)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein, shall be grounds for termination of its franchise pursuant to the
terms of §
110.12. The franchise authority may in its discretion extend the time for the
commencement and completion of construction and installation for additional
periods in the event the grantee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by
reasons of circumstances beyond its control.
   (C)   In the event the operation of any part of a cable television system is
discontinued for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the event the system
has been installed in any public street without complying with the requirements
of the grantee's franchise, the grantee shall promptly, on being given ten
days' notice, remove from the streets or public places all such property and
poles of the system. Any property which the grantee allows to remain in place
60 days after having been notified by the franchise entity that it must be
removed shall be considered permanently abandoned and shall become the property
of the franchise entity subject to the provisions of any utility joint use
attachment agreement.
   (D)   On the failure of the grantee to satisfactorily complete any work on
the public streets required by law or the terms of its franchise within the
time prescribed, the franchise entity, at its option, may cause the work to be
done and the grantee shall pay to the franchise entity the cost thereof within
30 days after receipt of an itemized report.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.12 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The CATV system to be constructed by the grantee shall be installed,
maintained, and operated at all times in full compliance with the technical and
channel capacity standards of the Federal Communications Commission. The
results of annual performance tests conducted in accordance with F.C.C. Rules,
Section 76.601(c) (or any other section of the rules as shall incorporate its
substance), shall be retained for at least five years and be available for
inspection by the city.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.13 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   The grantee shall, at all times, do the following.
   (A)   Install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment
in accordance with the requirements of the city's building code and electrical
safety ordinances, and in a manner that will not interfere with any
installations of the city.
   (B)   Keep and maintain in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in
good order and repair, all structures, lines, equipment, and connections in,
over, under, and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, and public ways or places
of the franchise entity, wherever situated or located.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.14 FRANCHISE TO EXTEND TO ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   On the annexation of any territory of the city, the right and franchise
hereby granted shall extend to the territory so annexed; and all facilities
owned, maintained, or operated by the grantee, located within the territory so
annexed, on any of the streets, alleys, avenues, or other public places
situated in the annexed territory, shall thereafter be subject to all the terms
of this chapter.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.15 FRANCHISE EXCLUSIVE.
   This franchise shall be exclusive and the granting of a franchise hereunder
shall prohibit the city from granting any identical or similar franchise. This
franchise may not be assigned or a sub-lease entered into by the grantee
without the prior approval of the city. The franchisee shall accept this
franchise and all the conditions of this chapter and franchise by having its
president sign an acceptance of this chapter and franchise.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.16 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers pertaining to the city by
virtue of this franchise or otherwise, the city reserves the right to terminate
and cancel this franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee
hereunder in the event the grantee does any of the following.
      (1)   After 30 days notice by the city, violates or continues to violate
any provision of this franchise or any rule, order, or determination of the
city made pursuant to this franchise, except where the violation, other than of
division (2) below, is without fault or through excusable neglect.
      (2)   Becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or is
adjudged a bankrupt.
      (3)   Attempts to dispose of any of the facilities or property of its
CATV business or system to prevent the city from purchasing it as provided for
herein.
      (4)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of the franchise or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the city.
      (5)   Fails to commence construction within one year from the effective
date of this chapter, or within six months after receipt of Federal
Communications Commission approval.
   (B)   Termination and cancellation shall be by ordinance duly adopted after
90 days' notice to the grantee, and shall in no way affect the city's rights
under this franchise or any provision of law. In the event that termination and
cancellation depends on a finding of fact, the finding of fact made by the city
or its representative shall be conclusive. Before this franchise may be
terminated and cancelled under this section, the grantee must be provided with
an opportunity to be heard before the City Council.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   If the grantee as defined herein, or any officer, agent, representative, or
employee thereof, or any other person, shall knowingly fail or refuse to obey
or comply with, or willfully violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or
any lawful rules promulgated hereunder, or any lawful order of the City Council
issued or rendered under and pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
grantee, or its officers, agents, representatives, or employees, or any other
person after public hearing and conviction of the offense, shall incur a
penalty for each offense of not more than $5,000, to be fixed, imposed, and
collected by the City Council. Each day the refusal or violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. Each penalty shall be a lien on the real
or personal property of the grantee, and shall be enforceable by the city as
statutory liens.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-26-81)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS TAXES
Section
   
111.01   Levy of tax; receipt required
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Business tax computation
   
111.04   Exemptions
   
111.05   Duration; proration
   
111.06   Transfer; fee
   
111.07   Compliance with city laws
   
111.08   Local business tax receipts to cover one occupation
   
111.09   (Reserved)
   
111.10   Rebate of fees
   
111.11   Authority of Commission
   
111.12   Denial of receipt; hearing
   
111.13   Revocation procedure
   
111.14   Display of receipt
   
111.15   Inspection
   
111.16   Record of receipts
   
111.17   Dates due and delinquent
   
111.18   Enforcement of payment
   
111.19   Insurers to pay additional tax
   
111.20   Local business tax schedule
Statutory reference:
   Business taxes, see F.S. Ch. 205
Editor’s note:
   Pursuant to Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06, all references to an “occupational
license tax” elsewhere in this Code shall be construed to mean a “local
business tax”.
§ 111.01 LEVY OF TAX; RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   There is levied a local business tax in the amounts set out in this
chapter for the privilege of engaging in or managing any business, profession,
or occupation within the city limits on the following:
      (1)   Any person who maintains a permanent business location or branch
office within the city for the privilege of engaging in or managing any
business within its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any person who maintains a permanent business location or branch
office within the city for the privilege of engaging in or managing any
profession or occupation within its jurisdiction.
      (3)   Any person who does not qualify under the provisions of divisions
(1) and (2) above and who transacts any business or engages in any occupation
or profession in interstate commerce if the business tax is not prohibited by
the United States Constitution, Article l, § 8.
   (B)   No person shall engage in or manage any business, occupation, or
profession for which there is a local business tax required by this chapter or
any ordinance of the city, unless the person procures a receipt to conduct the
business from the City Clerk. All receipts shall be signed by the City Clerk
and shall be upon blanks furnished by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   No receipt shall be issued except on written application of the person
applying for it. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, before issuing a
receipt based wholly or in part on property valuation, capacity, number of
persons employed, or any other contingency, to require the person applying for
the receipt to file with him/her an affidavit giving full and complete
information thereof. The applications and affidavit required by this section
shall be retained as a part of the records of the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.03 LICENSE TAX COMPUTATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PERSONS EMPLOYED." Includes all persons actively working in the business,
whether owners thereof or not.
   (B)   Whenever the amount of a business tax is based wholly or in part on
the basis of the number of persons employed, the number to be used in
calculating the amount of the business tax shall be the average number of
persons employed during the preceding tax year or business operating period, or
the average number of persons reasonably expected to be employed during the
period for which the receipt is to be issued, whichever number is the greater.
The average shall be obtained by adding the maximum and minimum number of
persons for the period for which the average is to be obtained and dividing
that sum by two.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All disabled persons physically incapable of manual labor, widows with
minor dependents, and persons 65 years of age or older, with not more than one
employee or helper, and who use their own capital only, not in excess of
$1,000, may engage in any business or occupation in the counties in which they
live without being required to pay a business tax.
   (B)   Any veteran of any war in which the United States armed forces
participated who has been a resident of the state for one year, was honorably
discharged from the service of the United States, and at the time of his
application for a receipt has a rated service-connected disability shall, upon
proof of his qualifications for exemption, be granted a receipt to engage in
any business, profession, or occupation which may be carried on mainly through
the personal efforts of the receipt holder as a means of livelihood, and for
which the business tax does not exceed the sum of $50. Otherwise, he shall be
entitled to an exemption to the extent of $50 on any receipt to engage in any
business, profession, or occupation which may be carried on mainly through the
personal efforts of the receipt holder as a means of livelihood when the
business tax therefor is more than $50.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require a business tax
receipt for practicing the religious tenets of any church.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06)
Statutory reference:
   Exemption allowed cripples, invalids, and the like, see F.S. § 205.162
   Exemption for disabled veterans, see F.S. § 205.171
   Exemption for religious tenets, see F.S. § 205.191
§ 111.05 DURATION; PRORATION.
   No business tax receipt shall be issued hereunder for more than one year.
Except for a business tax receipt issued for a half year, a day, month, or
quarter, as the case may be, the term of the business tax receipt shall begin
on October 1 of each year and expire on September 30 of the following year. For
each receipt, except for a receipt issued for a half year, a day, month, or
quarter, obtained between October 1 and April 1, the full tax for one year
shall be paid. If any occupation, business, or profession, except that for
which a daily, monthly, or quarterly receipt is required to be paid, shall not
have been engaged in prior to April 1 for any year, a receipt expiring on
September 30 following may be issued on payment of one-half of the full tax for
one year.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.06 TRANSFER; FEE.
   (A)   Local business tax receipts shall be good only for the particular
business and at one particular place of business which shall be named therein,
and for the person, firm, or corporation to whom issued. Receipts may be
transferred when there is a bona fide sale and transfer of the property used in
the business, stock in trade, or the removal of the business from one place in
the city to another, upon application to the City Clerk. The transfer shall be
written across the face of the original receipt. This section shall not be
applicable where the transfer is regulated by ordinance applicable to the
particular business for which a transfer is sought.
   (B)   All business receipts may be transferred to a new owner when there is
a bona fide sale of the business upon payment of a transfer fee of $10 and
presentation of evidence of the sale and the original receipt. Upon written
request and presentation of the original receipt, any receipt may be
transferred from one location to another location in the same city upon payment
of a transfer fee of $10.
(Ord. 114, passed 9-4-80) (Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-
19-06)
§ 111.07 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY LAWS.
   (A)   The issuance by the City Clerk, and receipt by the applicant of a
local business tax receipt, shall in no case be deemed authority to conduct an
occupation, business, or profession in contravention of any ordinance or
ordinances of the city now existing or hereafter enacted, or to establish or
maintain any nuisance.
   (B)   No local business tax receipts required by this chapter shall be
issued to any applicant giving an address that does not comply with the
appropriate zoning laws of the city.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.08 LOCAL BUSINESS TAX RECEIPTS TO COVER ONE OCCUPATION.
   Local business tax receipts shall be issued to cover only one of the
occupations or business classifications set out in §
111.20, unless otherwise permitted. The amounts assessed as business taxes
against the various trades, businesses, and professions are fixed per annum
unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.09 (RESERVED).
§ 111.10 REBATE OF FEES.
   No portion of any local business tax shall be rebated, unless it clearly
appears that the business tax was collected by mistake or error. Before making
a rebate to a receipt holder, all amounts payable under a proper tax shall be
paid by the receipt holder.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.11 AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall have the authority to refuse the issuance of any
local business tax receipt, and may, at its discretion, revoke any receipt, and
may order the refunding of any part or all of the moneys paid for the receipt
when it is revoked. Any person conducting any business after revocation action
by the City Commission shall be subject to the penalties specified in §
10.99.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Denial of receipt, see §
111.12
   Revocation of receipt, see §
111.13
§ 111.12 DENIALOF RECEIPT; HEARING.
   The City Commission shall have the authority for just cause to direct the
City Clerk not to issue or renew a receipt that may be applied for. The
applicant for the receipt shall then have the right to be heard before the City
Commission and show cause, if any, why the receipt should be issued or renewed.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06)
§ 111.13 REVOCATIONPROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Commission shall have the right, for just cause, to revoke
any receipt issued or renewed hereunder, and may in its discretion order the
refunding of any part or all of the money paid for the receipt when it is
revoked. Any person conducting any occupation, business, or profession after a
revocation by the City Commission, shall be liable to the penalties as
specified in §
10.99.
   (B)   If the City Commission desires to revoke any receipt issued hereunder,
it shall have the holder of the receipt served with a written notice of its
intention to do so, stating therein the cause for the proposed revocation of
the receipt, and setting a time for a hearing on the proposed revocation. The
notice shall be prepared and signed by the City Clerk, and served by the Chief
of Police or any police officer upon the holder of the receipt by delivery to
him of a copy, not less than five days before the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   The hearing shall be held in the city hall, and the holder of the
receipt shall have the right to be heard, either in person or by counsel. If
after the hearing, the City Commission shall determine that the receipt should
be revoked, it shall be revoked, and a continuance to engage in the occupation,
business, or profession for which the receipt has been issued shall constitute
a doing of business without a receipt. The receipt holder shall have the right
to apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a review of the order
revoking the receipt.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.14 DISPLAY OF RECEIPT.
   Every person, firm, or corporation required to procure a receipt shall
exhibit it whenever called upon to do so by the City Clerk, the Chief of
Police, police officer, Community Service Officer, Fire Department personnel,
Code Enforcement Officer or any other person designated by the City Manager.
Receipts of all persons having a place of business shall be conspicuously
displayed at the place of business.
(Ord.12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06; Am. Ord. 1285, passed
5-1-08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.15 INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, police officer, Community
Service Officer, Fire Department personnel, Code Enforcement Officer or any
other person designated by the City Manager to inspect all places of business
in the city, and to report the failure of any person carrying on any of the
occupations, businesses, or professions named in §111.20 to secure a receipt
therefor or to post the receipt conspicuously in his place of business.
(Ord.12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06; Am. Ord. 1285, passed
5-1-08)
§ 111.16 RECORD OF RECEIPTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep a copy of all receipts issued, or keep a book
alphabetically arranged in which shall be entered every receipt issued, the
names of all persons holding city receipts, the numbers of the receipts, the
occupation, the date of issuance, the expiration date of each receipt, and the
sum paid.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.17 DATES DUE AND DELINQUENT.
   (A)   All business tax receipts shall be sold in accordance with state
statutes as may be amended from time to time. Due dates and penalties shall
also be in accordance with state statutes as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Any person who engages in or manages any business, occupation, or
profession without first obtaining a local business tax receipt, if required,
is subject to a penalty of 25% of the tax due, in addition to any other penalty
provided by law or ordinance.
   (C)   Any person who engages in any business, occupation, or profession
covered by this chapter, who does not pay the required business tax within 150
days after the initial notice of tax due, and who does not obtain the required
receipt is subject to civil actions and penalties, including court costs,
reasonable attorneys' fees, additional administrative costs incurred as a
result of collection efforts, and a penalty of up to $250.
(Ord.12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 699, passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed
10-19-06; Am. Ord. 1285, passed 5-1-08)
§ 111.18 ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT.
   The payment of any business tax may be enforced by the seizure and sale of
the property employed in the occupation, business, or profession on which the
business taxes are imposed. The City Clerk may issue a warrant in the name of
the city for the collection of the business tax. The warrant may be executed by
the Chief of Police or any police officer of the city, who shall seize the
property employed in the occupation, business, or profession, or so much
thereof as may be necessary to pay the business tax. He shall then offer the
property for sale to the highest and best bidder for cash, between the hours of
ll:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., according to the official time prescribed for the
state, at the front door of the city hall, after publication of a notice once a
week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation published
in the county, or after publishing a notice by posting in three public places
in the city, one of which shall be the city hall, for ten days, of the time and
place of the sale. Out of the proceeds of the sale, the amount of the business
tax and cost connected with the sale shall be paid to the city, and the balance
shall be paid to the owner of the property.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.19 INSURERS TO PAY ADDITIONAL TAX.
   (A)   There is assessed, imposed, and levied on every insurance company,
corporation, or other insurer now engaging in or carrying on, or which shall
hereafter engage in or carry on the business of property insurance, as shown by
the records of the Insurance Commissioner of the state, an excise or license
tax in addition to any business tax or excise tax now levied by the city, which
shall be in the amount of 2% of the gross amount of receipts of premiums from
policyholders on all premiums collected on property insurance policies covering
property within the corporate limits of the city. The business or excise tax
herein levied shall be due and payable annually on March 1 of each year.
(Ord. 34, passed 10-15-75; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
   (B)   There is assessed, imposed, and levied on every insurance company,
corporation, or other insurer now engaged in or carrying on, or which shall
hereafter engage in or carry on the business of insuring with respect to
casualty risks, as shown by the records of the Insurance Commissioner of the
state, an excise or business tax in addition to any license tax or excise tax
now levied by the city, which shall be in the amount of l% of the gross amount
of receipts of premiums from policyholders on all premiums collected on
casualty insurance policies, covering property within the corporate limits of
the city. The license or excise tax herein levied shall be due and payable
annually on March 1 of each year.
(Ord. 35, passed 10-15-75; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
§ 111.20 LOCAL BUSINESS TAX SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following local business taxes shall be accrued and collected
annually, unless otherwise provided, on the following businesses, occupations,
and professions. These fees may be hereafter changed and amended from time to
time by a resolution adopted by the City Commission pursuant to the authority
of this chapter.
      (1)   Amusement/entertainment/recreation:
         (a)   Entertainment establishment or facility (museum and the like),
$100.
         (b)   Theater:
            1.   0 to 500 seats, $200.
            2.   501 to 1,000 seats, $400.
            3.   Over 1,000 seats, $600.
            4.   Drive-in, $400.
         (c)   Sightseeing vehicles (unit may be trolley, train, or other
vehicle), per vehicle, $200.
         (d)   Recreational/exercise establishment or facility (golf course,
tennis courts, health club, or similar activity). Note: Associated food/
beverage facilities to be licensed under division (A)(4) of this section, $150.
         (e)   Special events (fair, circus, carnival, art show, craft show,
and the like), $100.
      (2)   Coin-operated machines:
         (a)   Coin-operated machines accessible to public, nonlaundry, per
unit, $10.
         (b)   Coin-operated machines, laundry:
            1.   Less than 25 machines, $50.
            2.   25 or more machines, $100.
      (3)   Financial institutions: All financial institutions, including
banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies, and credit unions,
$100.
      (4)   Food/beverage service activities:
         (a)   No seats (take out, deli, catering), $50.
         (b)   Seating 1 to 15, $50.
         (c)   Seating 16 to 50, $100.
         (d)   Seating 51 to 150, $150.
         (e)   Seating 151 and over, $200.
      (5)   All gas stations, including those offering repairs and other
accessory uses:
         (a)   Each nozzle, $20.
         (b)   Convenience store with pumps:
            1.   Less than 10 nozzles, $300.
            2.   11 to 20 nozzles, $500.
            3.   More than 20 nozzles, $700.
      (6)   Hospital:
         (a)   Human, per bed, $5.
         (b)   Veterinary, per facility, $50.
      (7)   Insurance: Companies writing any class of insurance upon any person
or property residing or located within the city limits or risks occurring
within the city limits, $50.
      (8)   Manufacturing/processing/publishing:
         (a)   Employing 1 to 3 people, $50.
         (b)   Employing 4 to 8 people, $100.
         (c)   Employing 9 to 20 people, $150.
         (d)   Employing 21 to 50 people, $200.
         (e)   Employing over 50 people, $250.
      (9)   Private schools or child care:
         (a)   Less than 25 pupils, $50.
         (b)   25 or more pupils, $100.
         (c)   Individual schooling, including tutoring, piano, or other
musical instrument lessons, golf lessons, and the like, not in multiple
setting, $50.
      (10)   Rentals: (Note: Associated food/beverage facilities to be licensed
under division (A)(4) of this section.)
         (a)   Motel/hotel/timeshare, per unit, $5.
         (b)   Guesthouse/bed and breakfast, per unit (minimum fee $50), $5.
         (c)   Campground or mobile home park or trailer camp, per space, $5.
         (d)   Commercial parking lot, $60.
         (e)   Motor driven vehicles: (automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, jet
skis, and boats), $100.
         (f)   Storage units:
            1.   1 to 15 units, $50.
            2.   16 to 50 units, $100.
            3.   51 to 150 units, $150.
            4.   Over 150 units, $200.
      (11)   Retail, mail order, wholesale sales or rental: Gross square
footage of entire structure area, including display area and storage,
associated offices, rest rooms, and the like:
         (a)   0 to 500 square feet, $50.
         (b)   501 to 2,000 square feet, $75.
         (c)   2,001 to 5,000 square feet, $100.
         (d)   5,001 to 25,000 square feet, $200.
         (e)   Over 25,000 square feet, $400.
         (f)   Predominantly outside display( such as, nursery or tree farm),
$50.
         (g)   Door to door solicitation, $100.
         (h)   Based from home (see restrictions and conditions for home
occupational licenses), $50.
         (i)   Temporary/seasonal (see associated regulations), $100.
      (12)   Services:
         (a)   Professional/general service provider licensed by the state not
included in division (A)(12)(c) through (f) of this section, per person, $50.
         (b)   General service provider not licensed by the state, per
business, $50.
         (c)   Contractors/sub contractors related to the construction
industry, $75.
         (d)   Real estate brokers, firms, or agents:
            1.   Each broker of record or firm, $50.
            2.   Each sales person or broker sales person, $20.
         (e)   Funeral home, cemetery, or both, $150.
         (f)   Barber, beauty, and nail salons:
            1.   1 to 3 work stations, $30.
            2.   More than 3 work stations, each work stations, $10.
      (13)   Transportation:
         (a)   Airlines, $100.
         (b)   Vehicle, including taxicabs, bus service, and ambulance service,
per vehicle, $50.
      (14)   Utility/communications:
         (a)   Telephone, gas, cable television, solid waste pickup, telegraph
and similar utilities, $200.
         (b)   Radio stations, television stations maintaining business office
within city, $100.
    (B)   For those businesses, occupations, or professions not specifically
classified in division (A) above, the following shall apply. For the privilege
of maintaining any office or conducting any business, occupation, or profession
within the city, it is the intention of this chapter that a receipt shall be
required, and if the amount of the business tax is not specifically provided
for in division (A) above, then the amount shall be fixed by the City
Commission, upon application, in accordance with §§
111.02 and
111.03.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-28-74; Am. Ord. 114, passed 9-4-80; Am. Policy adopted 9-27-
84; Am. Ord. 415, passed 2-16-89; Am. Ord. 531, passed 12-6-90; Am. Ord. 699,
passed 7-21-94; Am. Ord. 1221, passed 10-19-06)
CHAPTER 112: PRECIOUS OR FABRICATED METAL DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose of chapter
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Register of transactions
   
112.04   Items to be held for certain period
   
112.05   Dealing with minors prohibited
   
112.06   Arrangement of stock to facilitate inspection
§ 112.01 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations governing the
purchase and disposition of personal property made of precious metals and
fabricated metals by dealers within the city.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULLION COINS. Fungible coins with intrinsic value greater than the
numismatic value.
   DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing or selling at
retail or wholesale or otherwise dealing in any old, used, or secondhand
precious metals of any kind or description and fabricated metals, whether with
a fixed place of business or as an itinerant.
   FABRICATED METAL. Any copper wire which is or can be used for transmission
or distribution in a utility or communications system, and any railroad track
and accessories.
   PRECIOUS METAL. Gold, silver, or platinum.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
§ 112.03 REGISTER OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in business as a dealer shall keep a register in
connection with his business, the register to be approved as to type and form
by the Chief of Police. At the time of each transaction the dealer shall enter
or cause to be entered in the register an accurate description of the person
from whom any article of personal property made of precious metal or fabricated
metal is purchased or received, and shall include in the description, but not
be limited to, the name, date of birth, sex, race, place of residence, and
driver's license or, if none, other government identification numbers of the
person. A photograph of the person shall also be included, together with an
accurate description of each article of personal property made of precious
metal or fabricated metal so purchased or received, provided, that if any of
these articles are identical, then a description of one and the number of these
identical items shall be sufficient. The description shall contain any mark,
brand, monogram, hallmark, word, or letters which may be engraved, stamped,
etched, or otherwise permanently marked on the article, and shall include at
least the estimated quantity of fabricated metals and the exact weight of the
precious metals received or purchased. The description of bullion coins shall
include the total dollar amount of each denomination. The register shall at all
times be kept open and available for the inspection and examination of the
Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Chief of Police to
inspect the register and shall be preserved for a period of three years after
the transaction.
   (B)   Any and all persons engaged in business as a dealer shall, in keeping
the register required in division (A) above, take the following precautions to
insure the accuracy of the personal identification required.
      (1)   Require the customer, as a condition to the purchase, to sign his
name on the registration form.
      (2)   Require reasonable proof of identification which would include, but
not be limited to, display of a driver's license or other governmental
identification cards or certificates.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any customer to give or display false
identification to the dealer or to sign a false name.
   (D)   All dealers shall, not later than 6:00 p.m. of each business day,
submit to the Chief of Police or his representative, a full and complete copy
or transcript of the register in which is entered the transactions of the
preceding business day as required by this section.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.04 ITEMS TO BE HELD FOR CERTAIN PERIOD.
   (A)   Except for the exempt transactions provided, no articles of personal
property made of precious metals or fabricated metals shall be sold, melted,
altered, or otherwise disposed of by any dealer until 15 days have elapsed from
the time the Chief of Police has had made available to him a copy or transcript
of the register in which the articles of personal property made of precious
metals or fabricated metals are entered. These articles shall not be
transferred from within the city during this 15-day period of time.
   (B)   The following transactions shall be exempt from the provisions of
division (A) above.
      (1)   Coins repurchased by a dealer, provided the dealer repurchases from
the same person and maintains a record of the prior sale and the repurchase.
      (2)   Transactions between dealers, provided the article has been
registered in accordance with this chapter and in the possession of any local
dealer for the period set forth in division (A) above.
      (3)   Transactions by scrap-metal processors purchasing metals from
governmental entities, public utility companies, or railroad companies or from
dealers certifying in writing that a report for the metals being purchased has
previously been filed and that any item containing gold, platinum, or silver
has been retained as required by this chapter.
      (4)   The provisions of §
112.03 shall not apply to the purchase of any coin with an intrinsic value less
than its numismatic value by any person whose primary business is dealing in
gold or silver coins, if the business is licensed pursuant to law or ordinance.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.05 DEALING WITH MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any dealer to buy, take, or receive by way of
purchase or exchange any articles made of precious metals or fabricated metals
from any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.06 ARRANGEMENT OF STOCK TO FACILITATE INSPECTION.
   All articles of personal property made of precious metals or fabricated
metals purchased or received by dealers shall remain attached to a copy of the
bill of sale and be so arranged in stock as to enable the stock to be inspected
by the Chief of Police or any other person with this authority during the
period set forth in §
112.04(A)
(Ord. 137, passed 7-2-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113: MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Transient solicitors
   
113.02   Rummage sales
§ 113.01 TRANSIENT SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any wares, merchandise, newspapers,
magazines, periodicals, or any other matter, to be sold without first obtaining
a written permit from the City Clerk. The City Clerk is authorized to issue a
permit to any person or individual, upon proper application, to solicit orders
from the citizens of the city, but only on exhibition of proper credentials.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or individual to make door-to-door
sales or to solicit orders within the city limits of Lake Mary between the
hours of 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the next morning, nor between the hours of 5:
00 p.m. Friday and 9:00 a.m. the following Monday.
   (C)   Solicitation from, in or on streets or from any vehicles. It shall be
unlawful for any person to solicit from, in or on any public road, street, road
right-of-way, median or safety zones or, while located on a city sidewalk, to
solicit from vehicles in the adjacent city, county, or state roadways.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 831, passed 3-6-97; Am. Ord. 908, passed 11-
5-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.02 RUMMAGE SALES.
   (A)   A temporary sale of new or previously used merchandise conducted on
residential property, which is not dedicated for retail use, for a single
duration of no greater than 72 hours. Such merchandise may consist of household
goods such as, but not limited to clothes, household appliances, auto parts,
stereo equipment, or furniture.
   (B)   No sale of goods, wares, or merchandise, commonly known as a rummage
sale, shall be conducted prior to the obtaining of a permit or license for that
purpose, and the payment of a permit or license fee. The fee for said permit
shall be as established in §
150.05.
   (C)   No household or residence shall be permitted more than two rummage
sale permits per calendar year. The use of rummage sales within the city will
be limited to a semi-annual (twice annual) occurrence. Churches or not-for-
profit organizations are exempt from this section.
   (D)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision
of the Building Department may apply to the City Manager for relief. The City
Manager will consider such things as relocating, death, or out of the ordinary
occurrences.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 441, passed 8-3-89; Am. Ord. 725, passed 11-
17-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Restriction upon hours of sale, consumption, and service
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverage establishments, zoning separation requirements, see §
154.13
§ 114.01 RESTRICTION UPON HOURS OF SALE, CONSUMPTION, AND SERVICE.
   The sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages in or upon any
public or private commercial facilities located within the city limits, is
prohibited between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 186, passed 4-26-84)
CHAPTER 115: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Authority
   
115.03   Scope
   
115.04   Purpose
   
115.05   Findings of fact
   
115.06   Definitions
   
115.07   Enforcement
   
115.08   Responsibilities of departments
   
115.09   Appeals
   
115.10   Notice
   
115.11   Immunity from prosecution
   
115.12   Construction
   
115.13   Severability
Licensing
   
115.20   License required; classifications
   
115.21   Application for license; application fee; consent by applicant
   
115.22   Processing of application, investigation, findings
   
115.23   Grant; denial; rejection
   
115.24   Contents of license; term; renewal; expiration; cancellation
   
115.25   Annual license fee
   
115.26   Transfer
   
115.27   Changing name of establishment
   
115.28   Suspension
   
115.29   Revocation
Distance Restrictions
   
115.40   Prohibited locations
   
115.41   Measurement of distance
   
115.42   Nonconforming uses
   
115.43   Variances
General Operational Rules
   
115.50   General requirements
   
115.51   Adult theaters
   
115.52   Adult performance establishments
   
115.53   Adult bookstores
   
115.54   Adult massage establishments
   
115.55   Employee records
Criminal Provisions
   
115.65   Operation without valid adult entertainment license
   
115.66   Working at unlicensed establishment
   
115.67   Operation contrary to certain provisions
   
115.68   Prohibited acts
   
115.69   Touching employees prohibited
   
115.70   Advertising prohibited activity
   
115.71   Minors prohibited
   
115.72   Failure to maintain employee records
   
115.73   Exceeding occupancy limit of adult booth
   
115.74   Hours of operation
   
115.75   Alteration of license
   
115.76   False statement in application for license
   
115.77   Solicitation or personal advertising
   
115.78   Allowing patrons to engage in sexual acts
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the adult entertainment
code.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.02 AUTHORITY.
   This code is enacted under the home rule of power of the city, in the
interest of the health, peace, safety, and general welfare of the people of the
city and under the authority of the city, hereafter, the to regulate the sale
and consumption of alcoholic beverages under the Twenty-First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.03 SCOPE.
   This adult entertainment code shall be effective throughout the city.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.04 PURPOSE.
   The intent of the City Commission in adopting this code is to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations for the adult entertainment industry that
will protect the health, safety, property values, and general welfare of the
people, businesses, and industries of the city. It is not the intent of the
City Commission to legislate with respect to matters of obscenity. These
matters are regulated by federal and state law, including F. S. Chapter 847.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.05 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Based on evidence and testimony presented at public hearings before the City
Commission and on the findings incorporated in the United States Attorney
General's Commission on Pornography (1986), Jacksonville Ordinance Code,
Chapter 410, Ord. 77-257-256, Section 1, the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
Section 12.70, Ord. 156509 (1982), the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, 66,000-0, Ord.
742-G, Section 1, 10-24-72, and “A Summary of a National Survey of Real Estate
Appraisers Regarding the Effect of Adult Bookstores on Property Values,”
conducted by the Division of Planning, Department of Metropolitan Development,
Indianapolis, January 1984, and the findings of fact set out in Section 3-5 of
the Adult Entertainment Code of Orange County, Florida a county in central
Florida, and evidence and affidavits presented by the Metropolitan Bureau of
Investigation of the Ninth Judicial Circuit of Florida the Board hereby finds:
   (A)   Commercial establishments exist or may exist within the city and other
nearby cities or counties in central Florida where books, magazines,
periodicals, or other printed material, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
prints, videotapes, slides, or other visual representations or recordings, or
recordings or other audio matter, or instruments, novelties devices, or
paraphernalia which depict, illustrate, describe, or relate to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are possessed, displayed, exhibited,
distributed, and/or sold.
   (B)   Commercial establishments exist or may exist within the city and other
nearby cities or counties in central Florida where dancers, entertainers,
performers, or other individuals, who, for commercial gain, perform or are
presented while displaying or exposing specified anatomical area; or engage in
straddle dancing or touching with customers.
   (C)   The activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
occur at establishments which operate for the purpose of making a profit and,
as such, are subject to regulation by the city in the interest of the health,
safety, economy, property values, and general welfare of the people, businesses
and industries of the city. The city is primarily a residential community and
the activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section are not
consistent with the overall quality of life in the community, tone of commerce,
residential environment within the city and the general trends of a positive
community development.
   (D)   When the activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
are present in establishments, other activities which are illegal, unsafe, or
unhealthful tend to accompany them, concentrate around them, and be aggravated
by them. Such other activities include, but are not limited to, prostitution,
pandering, solicitation for prostitution, lewd and lascivious behavior,
exposing minors to harmful materials, possession, distribution, and
transportation of obscene materials, sale or possession of controlled
substances, and violent crimes against persons and property.
   (E)   When the activities described in divisions (A) and (B) are
competitively exploited in establishments, they tend to attract an undesirable
number of transients, blight neighborhoods, adversely affect neighboring
businesses, lower real property values, promote the particular crimes described
in division (d) of this section, and ultimately lead residents and businesses
to move to other locations.
   (F)   The establishments in which the activities described in divisions (A)
and (B) of this section occur often are constructed, in part or in whole of
substandard materials, maintained in a manner reflecting disregard for the
health and safety of the occupants, and have exterior signs or appearance that
lower the surrounding property values and contribute to urban decline.
   (G)   The activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
often occur in establishments concurrent with the sale and consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   The concurrence of the sale and of alcoholic beverages with the
activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section leads to a
further increase in criminal activity, unsafe activity, and disturbances of the
peace and order of the surrounding community.
   (I)   The concurrence of the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
with the activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section creates
additional hazards to the health and safety of persons in attendance and
further depreciates the value of adjoining real property harming the economic
welfare of the surrounding community and adversely affecting the quality of
life, tone of commerce, and community environment.
   (J)   In order to preserve and safeguard the health, safety, property
values, and general welfare of the people, businesses, and industries of the
city it is necessary and advisable for the city to regulate the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages at establishments where the activities
described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section, occur.
   (K)   Employees of establishments at which the activities described in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur engage in a higher incidence of
certain types of unhealthy or criminal behavior than employees of other
establishments.
   (L)   Physical contact or touching within establishments at which the
activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur between
employees exhibiting specified anatomical areas and customers poses a threat to
the health of both and promotes the spread of communicable and social diseases.
   (M)   In order to preserve and safeguard the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city, it is necessary and advisable for the city
to regulate the conduct of owners, managers, operators, agents, employees,
entertainers, performers, and customers at establishments where the activities
described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur.
   (N)   The potential dangers to the health, safety, and general welfare of
the people of the city posed by permitting an establishment at which the
activities described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur to operate
without first meeting the requirements for obtaining a license under this code
are so great as to require the licensure of such establishments prior to their
being permitted to operate.
   (O)   Requiring operators of establishments at which the activities
described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur to keep a list of
information concerning current employees and certain recent past employees will
help reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating
the identification of potential witnesses or suspects, and by preventing minors
from working in such establishments.
   (P)   Prohibiting establishments at which the activities described in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section occur from operating within set distances
of educational institutions, religious institutions, residences, areas zoned or
designated for residential use, and parks, at which minors are customarily
found, will serve to protect minors from the adverse affects of the activities
that accompany such establishments.
   (Q)   Straddle dancing, unregulated private performances, and enclosed adult
booths in establishments at which the activities described in division (A) and
(B) of this section occur have resulted in indiscriminate commercial sex
between strangers and promotes a threat to the health of the participants and
promotes the spread of communicable sexually transmitted diseases. Straddle
dancing is primarily conduct rather than communication or expression.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. shall mean:
      (1)   An establishment which advertises, sells, or rents, or offers for
sale or rent adult material.
      (2)   The provisions of division (1) of this definition are not intended
to apply and it is an affirmative defense to an alleged violation of this code
regarding operating an adult bookstore without an adult entertainment license
if the alleged violator shows that at the establishment:
         (a)   Admission is not restricted to adults only;
         (b)   All adult material is accessible only by employees;
         (c)   The gross income from the sale and/or rental of adult material
comprises less than 10% of the gross income from the sale and rental of the
goods or services at the establishment; and
         (d)   The individual items of adult material offered for sale and/or
rental comprise less than 10% of the total individual new items publicly
displayed as stock-in-trade in any of the following categories: books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, videotapes, slides, or other visual representations and recordings,
or other audio matter or less than 10% of the individually used items publicly
displayed at the establishment as stock-in-trade in the same categories set out
above.
   ADULT BOOTH. A small enclosure inside an adult entertainment establishment
accessible to any person, regardless of whether a fee is charged for access.
The term ADULT BOOTH includes, but is not limited to, a “peep show” booth, or
other booth used to view “adult material” but does not include a restroom or a
foyer through which the public enters or exits the establishment.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult theater, an adult bookstore, or
an adult performance establishment operated for commercial or pecuniary gain,
regardless of whether such establishment is licensed under this code. “Operated
for commercial or pecuniary gain” shall not depend upon actual profit or loss.
An establishment which has an occupational license shall be presumed to be
“operated for commercial or pecuniary gain.” An establishment with an adult
entertainment license shall be presumed to be an adult entertainment
establishment.
   ADULT MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   Any establishment or portion thereof, where the superficial tissues
of one person are manipulated, rubbed, stroked, kneaded, and/or tapped by a
second person, whether or not the manipulation is aided by any electrical or
mechanical or other device, with or without a chemical preparation, accompanied
by the display or exposure of specified anatomical areas. Such establishments
shall not include the following:
         (a)   Licensed health care facility;
         (b)   Licensed physicians or nurses engaged in the practice of their
professions;
         (c)   Educational or athletic facilities, if the massage is a normal
and usual practice in such facilities; or
         (d)   Establishments exempted under F.S. § 480.034, or any successor
thereto, provided that all employees of said establishments who manipulate the
superficial tissues of the body of another person are licensed under F.S.
Chapter 480.
      (2)   The term ADULT MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT is included within and
supplements the definition of adult performance establishments.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any one or more of the following regardless of whether it is
new or used:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videotapes, slides, or other visual
representations, or recordings, or other audio matter, which have as their
primary or dominant theme matter depicting, illustrating, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia which are
designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTEL. Any motel, hotel, boardinghouse, roominghouse or other place of
temporary lodging which includes the word “adult” in any name it uses or
otherwise advertises the presentation of films, motion pictures, videotapes,
slides, or other photographic reproductions, which have as their primary or
dominate theme matters depicting, illustrating, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. The term ADULT MOTEL is included
within the definition of ADULT THEATER.
   ADULT PERFORMANCE ESTABLISHMENT. 
      (1)   Shall mean an establishment where any employee:
         (a)   Engages in a private performance or displays or exposes any
specified anatomical areas to a patron, regardless of whether the employee
actually engages in dancing;
         (b)   Wears any covering, tape, pastie, or other device which
simulates or otherwise gives the appearance of the display or exposure of any
specified anatomical areas, regardless of whether the employee actually engages
in dancing:
         (c)   Offers, solicits, or contracts to dance or perform with a patron
in consideration for any tip, remuneration, or compensation from or on behalf
of that person: or
         (d)   Dances or performs with or within three feet of a patron and
accepts any consideration, tip, remuneration, or compensation from or on behalf
of that person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that an establishment is not an adult
performance establishment if the establishment is a bona fide private club
whose membership as a whole engages in social nudism or naturalism as in a
nudist resort or camp, or such other establishment in which the predominant
business or attraction of the establishment is not the offering to customers of
a product, service, or entertainment which is intended to provide sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and, the establishment is
not distinguished by an emphasis on or the advertising or promotion of
materials relating to or employees depicting, describing, displaying, exposing,
or simulating specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   An adult performance establishment shall not be deemed a place
provided or set apart for the purpose of exposing or exhibiting a person's
sexual organs in a manner contrary to the first sentence of F.S. § 800.03, the
state's indecent exposure statute as set forth in the decision of the Supreme
Court of Florida in the case of Hoffman v. Carson, 250 So. 2d 891, 893 (Fla.
1971), appeal dismissed 404 U.S. 981 (1971).
      (4)   To the degree not described by this definition of ADULT PERFORMANCE
ESTABLISHMENT, an adult massage establishment, as herein defined, shall be
considered to be an adult performance establishment.
   ADULT THEATER. Any establishment which has adult booths where adult material
may be viewed or any establishment which has an auditorium, rooms, or an open-
air area where persons may view films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or other photographic reproductions which have as their primary or
dominant theme matters depicting, illustrating, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. Adult motels and adult booth or peep
show arcades are considered to be adult theaters.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A beverage containing more than 1% of alcohol by weight.
It shall be prima-facie evidence that a beverage is an alcoholic beverage if
there is proof that the beverage in question was or is known as beer, wine,
whiskey, moonshine whiskey, moonshine, shine, rum, gin, tequila, bourbon,
vodka, scotch, scotch whiskey, brandy, malt liquor, or by any other similar
name or names, or was contained in a bottle or can labeled as any of the above
names, or a name similar thereto, and the bottle or can bears the
manufacturer's Insignia, name, or trademark. Any person who, by experience in
the handling of alcoholic beverages, or who by taste, smell, or drinking of
such alcoholic beverages has knowledge of the alcoholic nature thereof, may
testify as to his opinion about whether such beverage is an alcoholic beverage.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission of Lake Mary, Florida.
   CONVICTION. A determination of guilt resulting from a plea or trial,
regardless of whether adjudication was withheld or whether imposition of
sentence was suspended.
   DEPARTMENT. The Planning/Zoning and Building Department, the Fire Chief, and
Police Department, including the respective director, employees, officers, and
agents thereof.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A premises or site upon which there is an
institution of learning for minors, whether public or private, which conducts
regular classes and/or courses of study required for eligibility to
certification by, accreditation to, or membership in the State Department of
Education of Florida, Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools,
or the Florida Council of Independent Schools. The term EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
includes a premises or site upon which there is a nursery school, kindergarten,
elementary school, junior high or middle school, senior high school, or any
special institution of learning. However, the term EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION does
not include a premises or site upon which there Is a vocational institution,
professional institution or an institution of higher education, including a
community college, junior college, four-year college or university.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works, performs, or provides services at an adult
entertainment establishment, irrespective of whether said person is paid a
salary or wage and shall include, but is not limited to, independent
contractors, sub-contractors, lessees, or sub-lessees who work or perform at an
adult entertainment establishment.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any site or premises, or portion thereof, upon which any
person, corporation, or business conducts activities or operations for
commercial or pecuniary gain. “Operated for commercial or pecuniary gain” shall
not depend upon actual profit or loss. An establishment which has an
occupational license shall be presumed to be “operated for commercial or
pecuniary gain”.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An officer who is on official duty for a law
enforcement agency.
   LICENSEE. Any person whose application for an adult entertainment
establishment has been granted and who owns, operates, or controls the
establishment.
   OPERATOR. Any person who engages in or performs any activity necessary to,
or which facilitates, the operation of an adult entertainment establishment,
including but not limited to, the licensee, manager, owner, doorman, bouncer,
bartender, disc jockey, sales clerk, ticket taker, or movie projectionist.
   PATRON or CUSTOMER. Any person at an establishment other than employees or
operators of the establishment, regardless of whether that person has actually
given any consideration or spent any money for goods or services.
   PARK. A tract of land within the city or unincorporated area of the county
which is kept for ornament or recreation and which is maintained as public
property.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police of the city or any of his designees as may
be employed by the Police Department of the city.
   PRE-EXISTING. Shall mean as follows:
      (1)   When used together with the term “adult entertainment
establishment,” “religious institution,” “educational institution,” “commercial
establishment that in any manner sells or dispenses alcohol for on-premises
consumption,” or “residence” the word “pre-existing” shall mean:
         (a)   The establishment, institution, or residence is already being
lawfully used or lawfully occupied;
         (b)   A building permit for the establishment, institution, or
residence has been lawfully issued, all fees associated with the permit have
been paid, and the permit has not expired; or
         (c)   An application or plan to allow the establishment, institution,
or residence to be constructed, used, or occupied has been filed and is
undergoing review or is approved, with or without conditions.
      (2)   When used with the term “park,” the word “pre-existing” shall mean:
         (a)   The park is already being used; or
         (b)   The park site has been approved or otherwise designated by the
appropriate governing body.
   PRIVATE PERFORMANCE. Modeling, posing, or the display or exposure of any
specified anatomical area by an employee of an adult entertainment
establishment to a patron, while the patron is in an area not accessible during
such display to all other persons in the establishment or, while the patron is
in an area in which the patron is totally or partially screened or partitioned
during such display from the view of all persons outside the area.
   PUBLIC NUDITY. To display or expose at an adult entertainment establishment
less than completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   Human genitals or pubic region,
      (2)   The cleavage of the human buttocks, or
      (3)   The areola or nipple of the human female breast.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A premises or site which is used primarily or
exclusively for religious worship and related religious activities.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals or pubic region;
         (b)   Any part of the human buttocks; or
         (c)   That portion of the human female breast encompassed within an
area falling below the horizontal line one would have to draw to intersect a
point immediately above the top of the areola (the colored ring around the
nipple). This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel, provided the areola is not so exposed.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly erect or turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (3)   Any simulation of the above.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT.
      (1)   A violation of §§
115.65 through
115.78 of this adult entertainment code; or
      (2)   Any offense under the following Chapters of the Florida Statutes:
F.S. Chapter 794 regarding sexual battery, Chapter 796 regarding prostitution,
Chapter 800 regarding lewdness and indecent exposure, and Chapter 847 regarding
obscene literature; or
      (3)   An offense under an analogous statute of a state other than the
state, or an analogous ordinance of another county or city.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, erection
or tumescence;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, anus or female breast;
      (3)   Acts of human anilingus, bestiality, buggery, cunnilingus,
coprophagy, coprophilia, fellation, flagellation, masochism, masturbation,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sadism, sadomasochism, sapphism, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, or urolagnia; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1), (2), or (3).
   STRADDLE DANCE. Also known as a “lap dance”, “face dance,” or “friction
dance” shall mean either of the following acts at an establishment:
      (1)   The use by an employee of any part of his or her body to touch the
genital or pubic area of another person, or the touching of the genital or
pubic area of any employee with another person. It shall be a “straddle dance”
regardless of whether the “touch” or “touching” occurs while the employee is
displaying or exposing any specified anatomical area. It shall also be a
straddle dance regardless of whether the touch or touching is direct or through
a medium.
      (2)   The straddling of the legs of an employee over any part of the body
of another person at the establishment, regardless of whether there is a touch
or touching.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this code may be enforced by:
   (A)   A suit brought by the City Commission in the circuit court to
restrain, enjoin, or prevent a violation of this code;
   (B)   Enforcement proceedings by the city code enforcement board; or
   (C)   Criminal prosecution as provided in §
115.99.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.08 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENTS.
   Ultimate responsibility for the administration of this code is vested in the
City Commission. The other departments are responsible for the following:
   (A)   The City Clerk is responsible for granting, denying, revoking,
renewing, suspending, and canceling adult entertainment licenses for proposed
and existing adult entertainment establishments as set out in §
115.20 through
115.29. The Clerk may utilize the services of other city officers (as set forth
hereinafter), including but not limited to, the Police Chief, in doing so.
   (B)   The Police Department is responsible for verifying information
contained on an application made pursuant to §
115.21, for inspecting proposed, or existing adult entertainment establishments
in order to ascertain compliance with applicable criminal statutes and
ordinances, including those set forth at §
115.65 through
115.78 and §
115.99, for determining whether adult entertainment license applicants have
been convicted of a felony or a specified criminal act within the previous five
years, and for enforcing applicable criminal statutes and ordinances, including
those set forth at §
115.65 through
115.78, and §
115.99.
   (C)   The Planning/Zoning and Building Department is responsible for
inspecting any proposed establishment or existing adult entertainment
establishment in order to ascertain compliance with §
115.50 through
115.55 and all applicable building codes, statutes, ordinances, and
regulations.
   (D)   The Fire Chief is responsible for inspecting any proposed or existing
adult entertainment establishment in order to ascertain compliance with §
115.50 through
115.55 of this code and all applicable fire codes, statutes, ordinances, and
regulations.
   (E)   The Community Development Department is responsible for inspecting any
proposed or existing adult entertainment establishment in order to ascertain
compliance with §
115.50 through
115.55 and all applicable health codes, statutes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (F)   The Community Development Department is responsible for ascertaining
whether the location of proposed adult entertainment establishments complies
with all distance, zoning, and location requirements of §
115.40 through
115.43, applicable portions of §
115.50 through
115.55, and all applicable zoning regulations in the city and whether existing
adult entertainment establishments are in compliance with §
115.40 through
115.43 and §§
115.50 through
115.55, and all applicable zoning regulations and land use laws.
   (G)   When a provision of this chapter gives the Police Chief, the City
Clerk, the Planning/Zoning and Building Department, or the Fire Chief the
authority or duty to act, the authority or duty vests in the Police Chief, City
Clerk, the Community Development Director, or the Fire Chief, or in any
inspector or employee of same who is given the authority or duty to act in
accordance with this chapter and the administrative procedures of the agency or
office concerned.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.09 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the City Clerk pursuant to §
115.20 through
115.29 may be immediately reviewed as a matter of right by the circuit court
upon the filing of an appropriate pleading by an aggrieved party.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.10 NOTICE.
   Any notice required under this code shall be accomplished by sending a
written notification by certified mail to the mailing address set forth on the
application for the license. This mailing address shall be considered the
correct mailing address unless the City Clerk has been otherwise notified in
writing.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.11 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The city or any of its departments or agents or any law enforcement officer
shall be immune from prosecution, civil, or criminal, for reasonable, good-
faith trespass upon an adult entertainment establishment while acting within
the scope of the authority under this code.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.12 CONSTRUCTION.
   This code shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose of
licensing, regulating, and dispersing adult entertainment and related
activities. Unless otherwise indicated, all provisions of this code shall apply
equally to all persons, regardless of sex. Masculine pronouns, such as “he”,
“his”, and “him”, as employed in this code, shall also be construed to apply to
feminine pronouns and neutral pronouns, unless the context suggests otherwise.
Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, unless the
context suggests otherwise.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this code, or any application thereof is declared to be
void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason, such portion or provision,
or the application thereof, shall be severable from this code. The remaining
portions and provisions of this code, and all applications thereof shall remain
in full force and effect. No void, unconstitutional, or invalid portion or
proscribed provision, or application thereof, was an inducement to the
enactment of this code.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
LICENSING
§ 115.20 LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Requirement. No adult entertainment establishment shall be permitted
to operate without having been first granted an adult entertainment license by
the City Clerk under this code.
   (B)   Classifications. Adult entertainment establishment licenses referred
to in this code shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   Adult bookstore;
      (2)   Adult theater; or
      (3)   Adult performance establishment.
   (C)   Single classification of license. An adult entertainment license for a
particular adult entertainment establishment shall be limited to one
classification of license.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPLICATION FEE; CONSENT BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   Required. Any person desiring to operate an adult entertainment
establishment shall file with the City Clerk a sworn license application on
standard application forms supplied by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Contents of application. The completed application shall contain the
following information and shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his legal name and any
aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he is 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
the names and residential addresses and residential telephone numbers of all
partners whether general or limited, the residence address of at least one
person authorized to accept service of process, and provide a copy of any
existing partnership agreement; or
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing, the names and capacity of all officers, directors and principal
stockholders, the name and address of the registered corporate agent for
service of process, the name, residential address, and residential telephone
number of the person making the application for the corporation and provide a
copy of its Articles of Incorporation;
      (2)   If the applicant intends to conduct the establishment under a name
other than that of the applicant, the establishment's fictitious name
registration under F.S. § 865.09;
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to division (B)(1) of this section has, within the five-year period
immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a felony
of any state or of the United States or any specified criminal act and, if so,
the specific crime involved, the date of conviction and the place of
conviction;
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to division (B)(1) of this section has had a previous license under
this code suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
establishment for which the license was suspended or revoked, as well as the
date of the suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or any other
individuals listed pursuant to division (B)(1) of this section has been a
partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a
corporation whose license under this code has previously been suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the establishment for which the
license was suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the suspension or
revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant to
division (B)(1) of this section holds any other licenses under this code and,
if so, the names and locations of such other licensed establishment;
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed establishment, including a legal
description of the property site, and a legal street address;
      (8)   The applicant's mailing address, business addresses, residential
address, and business and residential telephone numbers; and
      (9)   A site plan drawn to appropriate scale of the proposed
establishment, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   All property lines, rights-of-ways and the location of
buildings, parking areas and spaces, curb cuts, and driveways;
         (b)   All windows, doors, entrances and exits, fixed structural
features, walls, stages, partitions, projection booths, admission booths, adult
booths, concession booths, stands, counters, and similar structures;
         (c)   All proposed improvements or enlargements to be made, which
shall be indicated and calculated in terms of percentage of increase in floor
size;
      (10)   A recent photograph of the applicant; and
      (11)   The applicant's social security number or employer's tax
identification number and either the applicant's driver's license number or the
number of a state or federally issued identification card.
   (C)   Application fee. Each application shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee of $200. If the application for a license is approved and a
license is granted, the fee shall be applied as a credit towards the annual
license fee required for the first year pursuant to §
115.25 of this code.
   (D)   Incomplete application. In the event the City Clerk determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has not properly completed the
application for a proposed establishment, he shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and shall allow the applicant ten days to properly
complete the application.
(The time period for granting or denying a license under §
115.23 shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an
opportunity to properly complete the application.)
   (E)   Consent. By applying for a license under this code, the applicant
shall be deemed to have consented to the provisions of this code and to the
exercise of their responsibilities under this code by the agents or departments
of the city.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.22 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION; FINDINGS.
   (A)   Processing. Upon receipt of a complete application properly filed with
the City Clerk and upon payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the City
Clerk shall immediately stamp the application with the date it was received and
shall immediately thereafter send photocopies of the application and all
attachments to the Police Department, the Planning/Zoning and Building
Department, and the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Investigation. Each department shall promptly conduct an investigation
of the applicant, application, and the proposed establishment in accordance
with its responsibilities summarized at §
115.08 of this code to determine whether false, incomplete, or incorrect
information was given on the application or whether the proposed establishment
will be in violation of any provision of §§
115.40 through 1515.43 and §§
115.50 through
115.55 or of any building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance,
regulation, lease, deed restriction, or court order.
   (C)   Findings. After investigation, each department shall report its
findings in writing and shall forward its findings to the City Clerk within 14
days and shall state whether the department finds that false, incomplete, or
incorrect information was given on the application or whether the proposed
establishment will be in violation of any provision of §§
115.40 through
115.43 and §§
115.50 through
115.55 or of any building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance,
regulation, lease, deed restriction, or court order.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.23 GRANT; DENIAL; REJECTION.
   (A)   Time period for granting or denying license. The City Clerk shall
grant or deny an application for a license under this §§
115.20 through
115.29 within 30 days from the date of its proper filing.
   (B)   Granting of application for license. If none of the departments have
made a finding that would require that the application be denied, the City
Clerk shall grant the application, notify the applicant of the granting, and
issue the license to the applicant upon payment of the appropriate annual
license fee required in §§
115.24 and
115.25, with credit as provided in §
115.21(C).
   (C)   Denying of application for license.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall review the findings reported by the
departments and deny the application for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   The application contains material false informationor is
incomplete;
         (b)   The granting of the application would violate a statute or
ordinance expressly made applicable to adult entertainment establishments and
sexually oriented business, such as F.S. § 847.0134; deed restriction; lease;
or an order from a court of law which prohibits the applicant from obtaining an
adult entertainment establishment license.
         (c)   The applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to §
115.21(b)(1) has had a license under this code suspended or revoked by the City
Clerk;
      (2)   If the City Clerk denies the application, he or she shall notify
the applicant of the denial, and state the reason(s) for the denial.
   (D)   Rejection of application. If a person applies for a license at a
particular location within a period of nine months from the date of denial of a
previous application for a license at the location, and there has not been an
intervening change in the circumstances which would lead to a different
decision regarding the former reason(s) for denial, the application shall be
rejected.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95; Am. Ord. 1115, passed 11-20-03)
§ 115.24 LICENSES; TERMS; RENEWAL; EXPIRATION; CANCELLATION; REPORTS; CONSENT.
   (A)   Contents. An adult entertainment license shall state the name of the
licensee, the name of the establishment, the street address of the
establishment, the classification of the license, the date of issuance, and the
date of expiration.
   (B)   Term. All licenses issued under this code shall be annual licenses
which shall commence running on October 1, if they have been paid for, and
shall expire on September 30 of the following year. If a license is issued
after October 1, but by March 31 of the following year the applicant shall pay
the applicable license fee. If a license is issued after March 31, but by
October 1 of the same year, the applicant shall pay one-half the applicable
license fee.
   (C)   Renewals. Licenses shall be renewed annually. Subject to other
provisions of this code, a licensee under this code shall be entitled to a
renewal of his annual license from year to year, as a matter of course, by
October 1 by presenting the license for the previous year, restating and
updating all information required for a license application, and by paying the
appropriate license fee.
   (D)   Expiration. A license that is not renewed under this code by October 1
of each year shall expire. An expired license may be renewed by November 30 of
the same year upon presentment of an affidavit stating that no adult
entertainment activity has taken place at the establishment subsequent to
expiration, upon payment of the appropriate license fee, and upon payment of a
penalty of 10% of the appropriate license fee for the month of October, or
fraction thereof, and an additional penalty of 5% of the appropriate license
fee for the month of November, or fraction thereof.
   (E)   Cancellation. All expired licenses not renewed by November 30 shall be
canceled summarily by the City Clerk.
   (F)   Reports and records. Each licensee shall keep such records and make
such reports as may be required by the City Clerk and the departments to
implement this code and to carry out its purpose. Whenever the information
required by or provided under §
115.21(B) has changed, the licensee shall promptly report to the City Clerk the
changed information. The failure to keep and maintain these reports and records
shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   Consent. By holding a license under this code, the licensee shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this code and to the exercise by
the City Clerk and the departments of their responsibilities under this code.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.25 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Levy. There are hereby levied the following annual license fees under
this code for an adult entertainment establishment:
      (1)   An adult bookstore, $750;
      (2)   An adult theater, as follows:
         (a)   Having only adult booths, $35 for each booth;
         (b)   Having only a hall or auditorium, $3.50 for each seat;
         (c)   Having only an area outdoors designed to permit viewing by
customers seated in vehicles, $3.50 for each parking space;
         (d)   Having a combination of division (A)(2)(a), (b), and/or (c), the
cumulative license fee applicable to each under such subdivisions;
         (e)   Adult motel, $750;
      (3)   An adult performance establishment, $750.
   (B)   Fees regulatory. The annual license fees collected under this code are
declared to be regulatory fees which are collected for the purpose of
examination and inspection of adult entertainment establishments under this
code and the administration thereof. These regulatory fees are in addition to
and not in lieu of the occupational license taxes imposed by other ordinances.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.26 TRANSFER.
   (A)   Requirements. An adult entertainment licensee is not transferable to a
another person by surrendering possession, control, or operation of the
licensed establishment. An adult entertainment license may be transferred to
another person only upon satisfaction of the following requirements:
      (1)   A license transfer is applied for to the City Clerk by filing an
application setting forth the information called for under §
115.21, and the application has been granted by the City Clerk after
investigation by the Police Department; and
      (2)   Satisfactory proof is provided that control of the establishment
has been or will be transferred through a bona fide sale, rental, or other
transaction; and
      (3)   A transfer fee of 10% of the annual license fee is paid.
   (B)   Effect of suspension or revocation procedures. No license may be
transferred pursuant to division (A) when the City Clerk has notified the
licensee that suspension or revocation proceedings have been or will be brought
against the licensee.
   (C)   No transfer to a different location. A licensee shall not transfer his
license to another location.
   (D)   Attempted improper transfer void. Any attempted transfer of a license
either directly or indirectly in violation of this section is hereby declared
void.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.27 CHANGING NAME OF ESTABLISHMENT.
   No licensee may change the name of an adult entertainment establishment
unless and until he satisfies each of the following requirements:
   (A)   Gives the City Clerk 30 days notice in writing of the proposed name
change;
   (B)   Pays the City Clerk a $3 change-of-name fee; and
   (C)   Complies with F. S. § 865.09.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.28 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Violation of building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code,
ordinance or regulation. In the event a department learns or finds upon
sufficient cause that a licensed adult entertainment establishment is operating
in violation of a building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance,
or regulation, whether federal, state, or local, contrary to the respective
general requirements of §
115.50(A), (B), (C) or (D), the department shall promptly notify the licensee
of the violation and shall allow the licensee a seven-day period in which to
correct the violation. If the licensee falls to correct the violation before
the expiration of the seven-day period the department shall notify the City
Clerk, who shall forthwith suspend the license, and shall notify the licensee
of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the department
which reported the violation notifies the City Clerk in writing that, the
violation of the provision in question has been corrected.
   (B)   Illegal transfer. In the event the City Clerk learns or finds upon
sufficient cause that a licensee engaged in a license transfer contrary to §
115.26, he shall forthwith suspend the license, and notify the licensee of the
suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the City Clerk is
satisfied that the requirements of §
115.26(A) have been met.
   (C)   Convictions for violations of this code.
      (1)   In the event three or more violations of any specified criminal act
occur at an adult entertainment establishment within a two-year period, and
convictions result from at least three of the violations, the City Clerk shall,
upon receiving evidence of the third conviction, suspend the license, and
notify the licensee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
for a period of 30 days.
      (2)   In the event one or more violations of any specified criminal act
occur at the same establishment within a period of two years from the date of
the violation from which the conviction resulted for which the license was
suspended for 30 days under division (C)(1) of this section, but not including
any time during which the license was suspended for 30 days, and a conviction
results from one or more of the violations, the City Clerk shall, upon
receiving evidence of the first conviction, suspend the license again, and
notify the licensee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
for a period of 90 days.
      (3)   In the event one or more violations of any specified criminal act
occur at the same establishment within a period of two years from the date of
the violation from which the conviction resulted for which the license was
suspended for 90 days under division (C)(2) of this section, but not including
any time during which the license was suspended for 90 days, and a conviction
results from one or more of the violations, the City Clerk shall, upon
receiving evidence of the first conviction, suspend the license again, and
notify the licensee of the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect
for a period of 180 days.
      (4)   The transfer or renewal of a license pursuant to this code shall
not defeat the terms of divisions (C)(1) through (3).
   (D)   Effective date of suspension. All periods of suspension shall begin
ten days after the date the City Clerk mails the notice of suspension to the
licensee or the date the licensee delivers his license to the City Clerk,
whichever happens first.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.29 REVOCATION.
   (A)   False information. In the event the City Clerk receives evidence that
a license was granted based upon false information, misrepresentation of fact,
or mistake of fact, the City Clerk shall forthwith revoke the license, and
notify the licensee of the revocation.
   (B)   Repeat convictions.
      (1)   In the event one or more violations of any specified criminal act
occur at an adult entertainment establishment which has had a license suspended
for a period of 180 days pursuant to §
115.28(C)(3), and the violation occurs within a period of two years from the
date of the violation from which the conviction resulted for which the license
was suspended for 180 days, but not including any time during which the license
was suspended for 180 days, the City Clerk shall, upon receiving evidence of a
conviction for the subsequent violation, forthwith revoke the license, and
notify the licensee of the revocation.
      (2)   The transfer or renewal of a license pursuant to this code shall
not defeat the terms of division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Effect of revocation. If a license is revoked, the licensee shall not
be allowed to obtain another adult entertainment license for a period of two
years, and no license shall be issued again to any other person for the
location upon which the adult entertainment establishment was situated.
   (D)   Effective date of revocation. The revocation shall take effect ten
days after the date the City Clerk mails the notice of revocation to the
licensee or on the date the licensee delivers his license to the City Clerk,
whichever happens first.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS
§ 115.40 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, except §
115.43, or any provision of the city planning, land development, and zoning
regulations, no person shall propose, cause or permit the operation of, or
enlargement of, an adult entertainment establishment which, while in operation
or after enlargement, would or will be located within 1,320 feet of a
preexisting adult entertainment establishment, within 1,320 feet of a pre-
existing commercial establishment that in any manner sells or dispenses alcohol
for on-premises consumption, within 1,320 feet of a pre-existing religious
institution, within 1,320 feet of a pre-existing educational institution,
within 1,320 feet of an area zoned within the county or a municipality for
residential use, within 1,320 feet of an area designated as residential on the
future land use map of the city's comprehensive plan, within 1,320 feet of the
property line of a pre-existing residence within 1,320 feet of a pre-existing
park, or within 500 feet of the right-of-way of the following roads as exist
within the jurisdiction of the city: Interstate 4, Rinehart Road, Lake Emma
Road, and/or Lake Mary Boulevard. In this division the term “enlargement”
includes, but is not limited to, increasing the floor size of the establishment
by more than 10%.
   (B)   In addition to the distance requirements set forth in division (A) of
this section, an adult entertainment establishment shall not be allowed to open
anywhere except in an industrial zoned district where adult entertainment
establishments are an expressly permitted use.
   (C)   The distance requirements of division (A) of this section are
independent of and do not supersede the distance requirements for alcoholic
beverage establishments which may be contained in other laws, rules,
ordinances, or regulations.
   (D)   The above distance requirements shall be considered locational rather
than zoning requirements.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.41 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   The distance from a proposed or existing adult entertainment establishment
to a preexisting adult entertainment establishment, a pre-existing religious
institution, a pre-existing educational institution, an area zoned for
residential use, an area designated on the future land use map of the
comprehensive plan as residential, a pre-existing residence, a pre-existing
park, or a pre-existing commercial establishment that sells or dispenses
alcohol for on-premises consumption shall be measured by drawing a straight
line between the closest property lines of the proposed or existing adult
entertainment establishment and the preexisting adult entertainment
establishment, pre-existing religious institution, pre-existing educational
institution, area zoned for residential use, area designated on the future land
use map of the comprehensive plan as residential, pre-existing residence, pre-
existing park, or pre-existing commercial establishment that sells or dispenses
alcohol for on-premises consumption.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.42 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   An adult entertainment establishment, if any, which, on July 26, 1995,
the date the ordinance is first published, was located on a site which is
prohibited by §
115.40 of this code, shall cease operations by October 1, 1996.
   (B)   When a nonconforming use of an adult entertainment establishment has
been discontinued for 90 consecutive days or more, the nonconforming use shall
be deemed abandoned and the future use of the premises or site shall revert to
only those uses permitted on the site on which the establishment is located.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
§ 115.43 VARIANCES.
   The Planning and Zoning Board of the city is authorized to recommend a
variance from the distance and zoning requirements of this code, pursuant to
the procedures and criteria set forth for other variance requests as set forth
in §
154.06.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
GENERAL OPERATIONAL RULES
§ 115.50 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Each adult entertainment establishment is subject to all of the following
general requirements and shall:
   (A)   Conform to all applicable building, fire, health, zoning, and land use
statutes, codes, ordinances, and regulations, whether federal, state or local.
   (B)   On the first Monday of each month provide the Police Department with a
report of all persons who are employees or who were employees at the
establishment at the previous month, which report shall contain the name, date
of birth, residential address, social security number, position, and stage
name, if any, of such persons.
   (C)   Keep the adult entertainment license posted in a conspicuous place at
the establishment and available for inspection by the public at all times. It
shall be a violation of this chapter to mutilate, cover, obstruct, or remove a
license so posted and as available, or authorize same.
   (D)   Cover opaquely each window or other opening through which a person
outside the establishment may otherwise see inside the establishment.
   (E)   Maintain all exterior walls and surfaces of the establishment,
excluding signs, a single achromatic or light pastel color, and shall maintain
all awnings, canopies, window shutters, window treatment, or other trim the
same color or a single different shade of the same achromatic or light pastel
color. The trim color shall not exceed 20% of the entire exterior surface of
the building. Nothing in this division shall be construed to require the
painting of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of an establishment such as
brick or stone.
   (F)   Install, construct, keep, maintain, or allow only those signs at the
establishment which comply with the city sign ordinances and the provisions of
this division.
      (1)   No sign shall contain any flashing lights, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner (except for
the logo of the establishment, provided the logo shall not contain any
specified anatomical areas, or any male or female forms at or below the
clavicle),
      (2)   No sign shall contain in the name or logo of the establishment or
otherwise, the words ”nude”, “nudity”, “naked”, “topless”, “go-go”, or
“dancer”, or other words or material depicting or describing, specified
anatomical areas or sexual activities.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.51 ADULT THEATERS.
   In addition to the general requirements for an adult entertainment
establishment contained in §
115.50, an adult theater shall comply with the following special requirements:
   (A)   If an adult theater contains a hall or auditorium area, the area shall
have:
      (1)   Individual separate seats, not couches, benches, or the like, to
accommodate the number of persons allowed to occupy the area;
      (2)   A continuous main aisle alongside of the seating areas in order
that each person seated in the areas shall be visible from the aisle at all
times; and
      (3)   A sign posted in a conspicuous place at or near each entrance to
the hall or auditorium area which lists the maximum number of persons who may
occupy the hall or auditorium area, which number shall not exceed the number of
seats within the hall or auditorium area.
      (4)   Sufficient illumination so that persons in all areas of the
auditorium can be seen.
   (B)   If an adult theater contains adult booths, each adult booth shall
have:
      (1)   A sign posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance which
states the maximum number of persons allowed to occupy the booth, which number
shall correlate with the number of seats in the booth;
      (2)   A permanently open entrance not less than 32 inches wide and not
less than six feet high, which entrance shall not have any curtain rods,
hinges, rails, or the like which would allow the entrance to be closed or
partially closed by any curtain, door, or other partition.
      (3)   Individual, separate seats, not couches, benches, or the like,
which correlate with the maximum number of persons who may occupy the booth;
      (4)   A well-illuminated continuous main aisle alongside the booth in
order that each person situated in the booth shall be visible from the aisle at
all times; and
      (5)   Except for the entrance, walls, or partitions of solid construction
without any holes or openings in such walls or partitions.
      (6)   Illumination by a light bulb of no less than 25 watts.
   (C)   If an adult theater is designed to permit outdoor viewing by persons
seated in automobiles, it shall have the motion picture screen so situated, or
the perimeter of the establishment so fenced, that the material to be seen by
those persons may not be seen from any public right-of-way, property zoned for
residential use, religious institution, educational institution, or park.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.52 ADULT PERFORMANCE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   In addition to the general requirements for an adult entertainment
establishment contained in §
115.50, an adult performance establishment shall comply with the following
special requirements:
   (A)   Have a stage provided for the display or exposure of any specified
anatomical area by an employee to a patron consisting of a permanent platform
(or other similar permanent structure) raised a minimum of 18 inches above the
surrounding floor and encompassing an area of at least 100 square feet; and
   (B)   Any area in which a private performance occurs shall:
      (1)   Have a permanently open entrance not less than 32 inches wide and
not less than six feet high, which entrance shall not have any curtain rods,
hinges, rails, or the like which would allow the entrance to be being closed or
partially closed by any curtain, door, or other partition; and
      (2)   Have a wall to wall, floor to ceiling partition of solid
construction without any holes or openings, which partition may be completely
or partially transparent, and which partition separates the employee from the
person viewing the private performance.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.53 ADULT BOOKSTORES.
   In addition to the general requirements for an adult entertainment
establishment contained in §
115.40, an adult bookstore shall not display merchandise or adult material in a
manner that allows such merchandise or adult material to be visible from
outside of the structures at the establishment.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.54 ADULT MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   In addition to the general requirements for an adult entertainment
establishment contained in §
115.50, adult massage establishments shall observe the following special
requirements and be in violation of this chapter if said establishment fails to
do so.
   (A)   Dressing rooms shall be proportioned to the maximum number of persons
who are expected to be in them at one time, excluding attendants and
assistants, and separate dressing rooms shall be provided for men and women.
Floors shall be of a smooth Impervious material with a nonslip surface and
shall be covered at the wall junction for thorough cleaning. Partition walls
shall terminate at least six inches above the floor or be placed on continuous
raised masonry or concrete bases at least four inches high.
   (B)   One shower shall be provided for each 40 men or women, or fraction
thereof, based upon the maximum number of persons who are expected to be using
shower facilities at one time, and separate shower facilities shall be provided
for men and women. Floors and partition walls shall be constructed as required
in division (A) above for dressing rooms and provision shall be made for
footbaths or other devices or applications approved by the State Board of
Health or other appropriate regulatory agencies for the prevention of algacidal
and fungicidal infections.
   (C)   One locker shall be provided for each patron who is expected to be on
the licensed premises at one time, which shall be sufficient size to hold
clothing and other articles of wearing apparel. Each locker shall be capable of
being locked by the patron, with no one else having the key so long as the
patron is using the locker, or the locker shall be under the constant attention
and supervision of an attendant.
   (D)   Massages of a person by another person who displays or exhibits
specified anatomical areas are prohibited.
   (E)   No person shall massage the genitals of another person.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit or authorize any
acts or activities that are prohibited by state law.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.55 EMPLOYEE RECORDS.
   (A)   An adult entertainment establishment shall maintain a record of all
employees who currently work or perform at the establishment, and of all former
employees who worked or performed at the establishment during the preceding
one-year period. The record shall contain the current or former employee's full
legal name, including any aliases, date of birth, residential address,
residential telephone number (if any), social security number, driver's license
number or state or federally issued identification card number, and a recent
photograph of the employee. The record shall also state whether each employee
is a paid employee for whom income taxes are withheld or is a lessee,
sublessee, independent contractor, or subcontractor who is allowed to work or
perform at the establishment. The record shall also contain a copy of a valid
county occupational license for any lessee, sublessee, independent contractor,
or subcontractor who is allowed to work or perform at the establishment.
   (B)   The original records required by division (A) of this section, or true
and exact photocopies thereof, shall be kept at the establishment at all times.
   (C)   All operators of the establishment shall be responsible for knowing
the location of the original records, or the true and exact photocopies
thereof.
   (D)   An operator of the establishment shall, upon request by a law
enforcement officer when the establishment is open for business, immediately
make available for inspection the original records, or the true and exact
photocopies thereof.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
CRIMINAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.65 OPERATION WITHOUT VALID ADULT ENTERTAINMENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an operator of an adult
entertainment establishment when:
   (A)   The establishment does not have a valid adult entertainment license
for each applicable classification;
   (B)   The license of the establishment is under suspension;
   (C)   The license of the establishment has been revoked or canceled; or
   (D)   The establishment has a license which has expired.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.66 WORKING AT UNLICENSED ESTABLISHMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act as an employee of an adult
entertainment establishment that he knows or should know does not have a valid
license under this code, or which has a license which is under suspension, has
been revoked or canceled, or has expired, or which does not have each
applicable adult entertainment license conspicuously displayed.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.67 OPERATION CONTRARY TO CERTAIN PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an operator of an adult
entertainment establishment:
   (A)   Which does not satisfy all of the general requirements of §
115.50(C), (D), (E),
   (B)   Which is an adult theater and does not satisfy all of the special
requirements of §
115.51;
   (C)   Which is an adult performance establishment and does not satisfy all
of the special requirements of §
115.53;
   (D)   Which is an adult massage establishment and does not satisfy all of
the special requirements of §
115.54;
   (E)   While the entrance or exit of the establishment is locked when a
patron is inside the establishment.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.68 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for an employee of an adult entertainment establishment
to commit any of the following acts or for an operator of an adult
entertainment establishment to knowingly or with reason to know, permit,
suffer, or allow any employee to commit any of the following acts:
   (A)   Engage in a straddle dance with a person at the establishment;
   (B)   Offer, contract, or otherwise agree to engage in a straddle dance with
a person at the establishment;
   (C)   Engage in any specified sexual activity at the establishment;
   (D)   Engage in public nudity as defined in §
115.06;
   (E)   Display or expose at the establishment specified anatomical areas
while such employee is not continuously positioned at least three feet away
from all other persons or while such employee is not in an area as described in
§
115.52(A);
   (F)   Display or expose specified anatomical areas at an establishment where
alcoholic beverages are sold, offered for sale or consumed;
   (G)   Display or expose any specified anatomical area while simulating any
specified sexual activity with any other person at the establishment;
   (H)   Engage in a private performance unless such employee is in an area
which complies with the requirements of §
115.52(B)(1) and (2);
   (I)   Intentionally touch any person at the adult entertainment
establishment, while engaged in the display or exposure of any specified
anatomical area; or
   (J)   Intentionally touch the clothed or unclothed body of any person at the
adult entertainment establishment, at any point below the waist and above the
knee of the person, or to intentionally touch the clothed or unclothed breast
of any female person.
   (K)   Exception. Notwithstanding any provision indicating to the contrary,
it shall not be unlawful for any employee of an adult entertainment
establishment to expose any specified anatomical area during the employee's
bona fide use of a restroom, or bona fide use of a dressing room which is used
and occupied only by other employees.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.69 TOUCHING EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in an adult entertainment
establishment to intentionally touch an employee who is displaying or exposing
any specified anatomical area at the adult entertainment establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in an adult entertainment
establishment to intentionally touch the clothed or unclothed breast of any
employee, or to touch the clothed body of any employee at any point below the
waist and above the knee of the employee.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.70 ADVERTISING PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for an operator of an adult entertainment establishment
to advertise, encourage, or promote and activity prohibited by this code.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.71 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an operator or employee of an adult entertainment
establishment to knowingly, or with reason to know, permit, suffer, or allow a
person under 18 years of age to:
   (A)   Enter or remain in the establishment;
   (B)   Purchase goods or services at the establishment; or
   (C)   Work at the establishment as an employee.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.72 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EMPLOYEE RECORDS.
   It shall be unlawful to be an operator of an adult entertainment
establishment at which all records for employees required by, §
115.54 have not been compiled, are not maintained, or are not made available
for inspection by a law enforcement officer upon request when the establishment
is open for business.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.73 EXCEEDING OCCUPANCY LIMIT OF ADULT BOOTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy an adult booth in which booth
there are more people than that specified on the posted sign required by §
115.51.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.74 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any day
for:
   (A)   An operator of an adult entertainment establishment to allow such
establishment to remain open for business, or to allow, suffer or permit any
employee to engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale,
solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a service.
   (B)   An employee of an adult entertainment establishment to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service, or solicit a service.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.75 ALTERATION OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter or otherwise change the
contents or appearance of an adult entertainment license except the City Clerk.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.76 FALSE STATEMENT IN APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person applying for an adult entertainment
license pursuant to §§
115.20 through
115.29 to make a false statement or provide false information which is intended
to facilitate the issuance of a license on the application required by §
115.21, to provide false information in the reports required by §
115.50, or to falsify the records required by §
115.54.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.77 SOLICITATION OR PERSONAL ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any employee of an adult entertainment
establishment while situated outside any structure at the adult entertainment
establishment, or at a place at the adult entertainment establishment where the
employee is visible from any public right-of-way or sidewalk, to display or
expose specified anatomical areas or to engage in personal advertising,
pandering, or solicitation, whether passive or otherwise, on behalf of the
employee, any other employee, or the adult entertainment establishment.
Personal advertising is defined as encouraging or enticing, by whatever direct
or indirect means, potential customers beyond the adult entertainment
establishment to enter the adult entertainment establishment. Additionally, it
shall be unlawful for an operator or any employee to suffer, permit, or allow
any door that is visible from a public right-of-way or sidewalk to be opened or
remain opened except when a person is entering or exiting the establishment.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.78 ALLOWING PATRONS TO ENGAGE IN SEXUAL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for an operator or employee of an adult entertainment
establishment, to knowingly or with reason to know, permit, suffer, or allow
any person or patron, to engage in any specified sexual activity at the
establishment. It Is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section that
the operator or employee immediately left the establishment and notified the
police of the illegal activity.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any section of §§
115.65 through
115.78 may be punished as provided in Florida statutes.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-24-95)
CHAPTER 116: CONVENIENCE BUSINESS SECURITY
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Regulations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   “CONVENIENCE BUSINESS.”
      (1)   Any place of business that is primarily engaged in the retail sale
of groceries, or both groceries and gasoline, and that is open for business at
any time between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      (2)   The term “CONVENIENCE BUSINESS” does not include:
         (a)   A business that is solely or primarily a restaurant.
         (b)   A business that always has at least five employees on the
premises after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m.
         (c)   A business that has at least 10,000 square feet of retail floor
space.
      (3)   The term “CONVENIENCE BUSINESS” does not include any business in
which the owner or members of his or her family work between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   “EMPLOYEE.” The person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or group
enterprise legally responsible for the day- to-day operation of the convenience
business.
   “OWNER.” The person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or other group
enterprise having lawful possession of the premises upon which the convenience
business is operated.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1325, passed 6-4-09)
§ 116.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every convenience business shall be equipped with the following
security devices and standards:
      (1)   A security camera system capable of recording and retrieving an
image to assist in offender identification and apprehension.
      (2)   A drop safe or cash management device for restricted access to cash
receipts.
      (3)   A lighted parking lot illuminated at an intensity of at least two
foot-candles per square foot at 18 inches above the surface.
      (4)   A conspicuous notice at the entrance which states that the cash
register contains $50 or less.
      (5)   Window signage that allows a clear and unobstructed view from
outside the building and in a normal line of sight of the cash register and
sales transaction area.
      (6)   Height markers at the entrance of the convenience business which
display height measures.
      (7)   A cash management policy to limit the cash on hand at all times
after 11:00 p.m.
   (B)   A convenience business shall not have window tinting that reduces
exterior or interior view in a normal line of sight.
   (C)   Every convenience business shall be equipped with a silent alarm to
law enforcement or a private security agency, unless application for an
exemption is made to and granted by the Attorney General. An application for
exemption must be in writing and must be accompanied by an administrative fee
of $25 for each store for which an exemption would apply.
   (D)   If a murder, robbery, sexual battery, aggravated assault, aggravated
battery, or kidnapping or false imprisonment, as those crimes are identified
and defined by Florida Statutes, occurs or has occurred at a convenience
business since July 1, 1989, and arises out of the operation of the convenience
business, that convenience business shall implement at least one of the
following security measures:
      (1)   Provide at least two employees on the premises at all times after
11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Install for use by employees at all times after 11:00 p.m. and
before 5:00 a.m. a secured safety enclosure of transparent polycarbonate or
other material that meets at least one of the following minimum standards:
         (a)   American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D3935
(classification PC110 B 30800700) and that has a thickness of at least 0.375
inches and has an impact strength of at least 200 foot pounds; or
         (b)   Underwriters Laboratory Standard UL 752 for medium power small
arms (level one), Bullet Resisting Equipment;
      (3)   Provide a security guard on the premises at all times after 11:00
p.m. and before 5:00 a.m.;
      (4)   Lock the business premises throughout the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:
00 a.m., and only transact business through an indirect pass-through trough,
trapdoor, or window; or
      (5)   Close the business at all times after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00
a.m.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, any convenience business that by law
implemented any of the security measures set forth in division (D) above and
has maintained said measures as required by the Department of Legal Affairs
without any occurrence or incidence of the crimes identified by division (D)
for a period of no less than 24 months immediately preceding the filing of a
notice of exemption, may file with the Department a notice of exemption from
these enhanced security measures. In no event shall this exemption be
interpreted to preclude full compliance with the security measures set forth in
division (D) should any occurrence or incidence of the crimes identified by
division (D) cause division (D) to be statutorily applicable.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1325, passed 6-4-09) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any of the sections set forth in this chapter is subject
to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The city may obtain injunctive relief to restrain or prohibit
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1325, passed 6-4-09)
CHAPTER 117: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Slot Machines or Devices
   
117.01   Purpose and intent; findings; jurisdiction; statutory authority
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Slot machines or devices prohibited
   
117.04   Exemption
   
117.99   Penalty
SLOT MACHINES OR DEVICES
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT; FINDINGS; JURISDICTION; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to regulate and prohibit,
within the City of Lake Mary, Florida, slot machines or devices and casino-type
slot machines as defined in this subchapter or as prohibited by F.S. Chapter
849.
(Ord. 1139, passed 6-3-04)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "SLOT MACHINE OR DEVICE." An amusement machine, device, game or instrument
operated by means of the insertion of a coin, bill, currency, credit card,
debit card, ticket, token or slug, for use as a game, contest of skill or
amusement of any description, which device, machine, game or instrument is
similar to, or in the nature of a casino-type slot machine.
   "CASINO-TYPE SLOT MACHINE." A machine, device, game or instrument which is
prohibited by F.S. § 849.16, and which, by means of skill or chance, or both,
has as its object the lining up of two or more pictures, icons, images, colors,
lights, or spinning objects, or any combination thereof. Examples of casino-
type slot machines include, but are not limited to, the games known as "Fruit
Paradise," "New Cherry," "Fruit Bonus," "Triple Jack," "Magical Odds," "Mystery
J&B," "Klondike," and "Reel of Fortune."
(Ord. 1139, passed 6-3-04)
§ 117.03 SLOT MACHINES OR DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have, own, operate, use or allow another to
have, own, operate or use a slot machine or device in the City of Lake Mary,
and slot machines or devices are hereby prohibited in the City of Lake Mary.
   (B)   No occupational licenses shall be issued by the city for any business,
enterprise or organization that proposes to operate a slot machine or device in
the city and no occupational license shall be issued by the city for a slot
machine or device.
(Ord. 1139, passed 6-3-04)
Cross-reference:
   Business taxes, see
Ch. 111
§ 117.04 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter is not intended to and specifically does not regulate:
   (A)   Merchandise vending machines;
   (B)   Coin-operated mechanical or electrical musical instruments or devices;
   (C)   Coin-operated amusement devices that are not in the nature of, or
similar to, casino-type slot machines such as pinball, mechanical grab machines
and shooting games; or
   (D)   Coin-operated amusement devices that may be in the nature of or
similar to casino-type slot machines or devices which are not used for
commercial or betting purposes but kept only for purposes of display.
(Ord. 1139, passed 6-3-04)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1139, passed 6-3-04)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Commission of state misdemeanors
   
130.02   Juvenile curfew
§ 130.01 COMMISSION OF STATE MISDEMEANORS.
   Subject to the provisions of F.S. Ch. 775 which defines misdemeanors, the
commission of certain acts are hereby adopted as offenses against the city as
fully as if these statutes were set forth herein at length and any person
convicted of a violation thereof shall be subject to the same penalty as
provided by state law.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74; Am. Ord. 1542, passed 6-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Case reference:
   Orr v. Quigg, 135 Fla. Stats. 653, 185 So. 726
   State v. Smith, 189 So. 2d 846
§ 130.02 JUVENILE CURFEW.
   (A)   The provisions of F.S. §§ 877.20 — 877.25, as passed by the state
legislature in 1994, and as may from time to time be amended by the state
legislature, are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
   (B)   The city's local juvenile curfew enacted pursuant to division (A) of
this section, shall be effective within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1542, passed 6-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
150A.   UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
         
APPENDIX: MINIMUM BLOCKING AND TIE-DOWN STANDARDS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX A: STREET SYSTEM REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX B: OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING
         
APPENDIX C: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX D: PUBLIC UTILITIES
         
APPENDIX E: FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX F: BORROW PITS
         
APPENDIX G: SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX H: VESTED RIGHTS
         
APPENDIX I: SIGN CODE
         
APPENDIX J: TRANSPORTATION GUIDELINES
      
156.   SITE PLAN REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX A: PROGRAM FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW (TRANSPORTATION)
      
157.   LANDSCAPING AND ARBOR REGULATIONS
      
158.   GATEWAY CORRIDOR OVERLAY STANDARDS CLASSIFICATION
         
APPENDIX: ILLUSTRATIONS
      
159.   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS RELATING TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR ZONING CODE
AMENDMENTS
      
160.   RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
      
161.   CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT AND CONSISTENCY DETERMINATION
      
162.   CONSERVATION PROJECT
      
163.   BUILDING, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, FIRE PREVENTION AND MISCELLANEOUS FEES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Adoption of standard codes
   
150.04   Administration and enforcement
   
150.05   Permit fees
   
150.06   Building permits
   
150.07   Application for building permit
   
150.08   Construction
   
150.09   Procedure and fee schedule for third party review of plans
Impact Fees
   
150.15   Levy and purpose
   
150.16   Applicability
   
150.17   Determination of fee amounts
   
150.18   Schedule of impact fees
   
150.19   Waiver of impact fee and provision for appeal
   
150.20   Time of payment; remedies for non-payment; credit of fees
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as the building code of the
city.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CODE. Refers to The Florida Building Code.
   RATE STANDARDS. Refers to the rate standards as set forth by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 756, passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 774, passed 11-
2-95; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the following codes as the minimum standards
for construction within the municipal limits of the city, and these shall be
considered as much a part of this chapter as if all the matter and information
set forth by the referenced manuals were fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The current Florida Building Code, National Electric Code and all
their appurtenances as adopted by the State of Florida.
      (1)   Amend.
         (a)   Section 101.
101.3.3 Permitting and inspection. The inspection or permitting of any building
system or plan by the jurisdiction under the requirements of this code shall
not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such
building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the jurisdiction nor any
employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or
hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan
nor for any failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to
such inspection or permitting, unless the employee of jurisdiction is found to
have acted in bad faith or with malicious purpose in a manner exhibiting wanton
and willful disregard of the safety, health and welfare of the public.
101.4.2.3.2 Unsafe Buildings shall be abated using the Standard Unsafe Building
Abatement Code, 1985 edition, promulgated by the Southern Building Code
Congress International, Inc., subject to all amendments, modifications or
deletions hereinafter contained.
101.4.13 Rules of Construction. The rules set out in this section shall be
observed, unless such construction is inconsistent with the manifest intent of
this chapter. The rules of construction and definitions set out here shall not
be applied to any section of this chapter which contains any express provisions
excluding such construction, or where the subject matter or content of such
section would be inconsistent with this section.
   101.4.13.1 Generally. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this division shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the administration of the jurisdiction may be fully
carried out. Terms used in this division, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall have the meanings prescribed by the statutes of this state for
the same terms.
   101.4.13.2 Text. In case of any difference of meaning or implication between
the text of this division and any figure, the text shall control.
   101.4.13.3 Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring
the building official or some other officer or employee to do some act or
perform some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the building official or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize professional level
subordinates to perform the required act or duty unless the terms of the
provision or section specify otherwise.
   101.4.13.4 Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
   101.4.13.5 Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
The word "shall" takes precedence over "may."
   101.4.13.6 Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall
be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures whether
by printing or otherwise.
   101.4.13.7 Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year, unless a fiscal
year is indicated.
   101.4.13.8 Interpretation. Interpretations of this chapter shall be made by
the building official.
101.4.14 Words not defined.
   101.4.14.1 Words not defined herein shall have the meaning stated in the
Florida Statutes or other nationally recognized codes, or other documents,
manuals or standards adopted elsewhere in this chapter. Words not defined in
those documents shall have the meaning stated in the Webster's Ninth New
Collegiate Dictionary, as revised.
   101.4.14.2 In case of a conflict in definitions or codes, the appropriate
definition (or code) to be applied shall be the one applicable to the trade in
question. In case of a conflict between different parts of this chapter;
conflicts within the same code; or conflicts between code; the provision which
provides the highest degree of life safety shall be applicable.
101.4.15 Words Defined.
   ABANDON or ABANDONMENT. (1) Termination of a construction project by a
contractor without just cause or proper notification to the owner including the
reason for termination. (2) Failure of a contractor to perform work without
just cause for ninety (90) days. (3) Failure to obtain an approved inspection
within one hundred eighty (180) days from the previous approved inspection.
   APPRAISED VALUE. For the purpose of this section, appraised value is defined
as either (1) one hundred and twenty (120) percent of the assessed value of the
structure as indicated by the County Property Appraiser's Office or (2) the
value as indicated in a certified appraisal from a certified appraiser.
   ASSESSED VALUE.  The value of real property and improvements thereon as
established by the County Property Appraiser.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT.  A person specifically authorized by the holder of a
certificate of competency to obtain permits in his stead.
   BASIC WIND SPEED LINE. The basic wind speed line for the jurisdiction shall
be as established by the wind speed contour map attached to, and made part of,
this chapter if applicable.
   BOARD. The appropriate City or County Board of Adjustment and Appeals,
unless otherwise specifically stated.
   BUILDING COMPONENT. An element or assembly of elements integral to or part
of a building.
   BUILDING SHELL. The structural components that completely enclose a
building, including, but not limited to, the foundation, structural frame,
floor slabs, exterior walls and roof system.
   BUILDING SYSTEM. A functionally related group of elements, components and/or
equipment, such as the electrical, plumbing and mechanical systems of a
building.
   CERTIFICATION. The act or process of obtaining a certificate of competency
from the state or municipality through the review of the applicant's experience
and financial responsibility as well as successful passage of an examination.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY (CERTIFICATE). An official document evidencing
that a person is qualified to engage in the business of contracting,
subcontracting or the work of a specific trade.
   CERTIFICATE OF EXPERIENCE. An official document evidencing that an applicant
has satisfied the work experience requirements for a certificate of competency.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY (C.O.).  An official document evidencing that a
building satisfies the requirements of the jurisdiction for the occupancy of a
building.
   CERTIFIED CONTRACTOR. Any contractor who possesses a certificate of
competency issued by the Department of Professional Regulation of the State of
Florida.
   CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY. A change from one Building Code occupancy
classification or subclassification to another.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building, structure, improvement or accessory
thereto, other than a one- or two-family dwelling.
   CUMULATIVE CONSTRUCTION COST. The sum total of costs associated with any
construction work done to a building or structure either at one (1) time or at
different times within a specified period of time.
   DEMOLITION. The act of razing, dismantling or removal of a building or
structure, or portion thereof, to the ground level.
   EXAMINATION. An exam prepared, proctored and graded by a recognized testing
agency unless otherwise implied in context or specifically stated otherwise.
   FCILB. The Florida Construction Industry Licensing Board.
   IMMINENT DANGER. Structurally unsound conditions of a structure or portion
thereof that is likely to cause physical injury to a person entering the
structure: Or Due to structurally unsound conditions, any portion of the
structure is likely to fall, be carried by the wind, or otherwise detach or
move, and in doing so cause physical injury or damage to a person on the
property or to a person or property nearby: Or The condition of the property is
such that it harbors or is inhabited by pests, vermin, or organisms injurious
to human health, the presence of which constitutes an immediate hazard to
people in the vicinity.
   INSPECTION WARRANT. A court order authorizing the official or his designee
to perform an inspection of a particular property named in the warrant.
   INTENSIFICATION OF USE.  An increase in capacity or number of units of a
residential or commercial building.
   INTERIOR FINISH. The preparation of interior spaces of a commercial building
for the first occupancy thereof.
   LICENSED CONTRACTOR. A contractor certified by the State of Florida or the
local jurisdiction who has satisfied all state or local requirements to be
actively engaged in contracting.
   MARKET VALUE. As defined in floodplain regulations of this code.
   OWNER'S AGENT. A person, firm or entity authorized in writing by the owner
to act for or in place of the owner.
   PERMIT.  An official document authorizing performance of a specific activity
regulated by this chapter.
   PERMIT CARD or PLACARD. A document issued by the jurisdiction evidencing the
issuance of a permit and recording of inspections.
   QUALIFYING AGENT, PRIMARY. A person who possesses the requisite skill,
knowledge, experience and certificate of competency, and has the responsibility
to supervise, direct, manage, and control the contracting activities of the
business organization with which he is associated; who has the responsibility
to supervise, direct, manage and control construction activities on a job for
which he has obtained a permit; and whose technical and personal qualifications
have been determined by investigation and examination and is evidenced by his
possession of a certificate of competency.
   QUALIFYING AGENT, SECONDARY. A person who possesses the requisite skill,
knowledge, experience and certificate of competency, and has the responsibility
to supervise, direct, manage and control construction activities on a job for
which he has obtained a permit, and whose technical and personal qualifications
have been determined by investigation and examination and is evidenced by his
possession of a certificate of competency.
   RECIPROCITY. To accept a verified affidavit from any municipality or county
of the State of Florida that the applicant has satisfactorily completed a
written examination in its jurisdiction equal in content with the examination
required by this chapter.
   REGISTERED CONTRACTOR. A contractor who has registered with the department
of professional regulation of the State of Florida pursuant to fulfilling the
competence requirements of the local jurisdiction.
   REGISTRATION.  The act or process of registering a locally obtained
certificate of competency with the state, or the act or process of registering
a state issued certificate of competency with the municipality.
   REMODELING. Work which changes the original size, configuration or material
of the components of a building.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any one- or two-family building or accessory.
   ROOFING. The installation of roof coverings.
   SPA. Any constructed or prefabricated pool containing water jets.
   SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. A contractor whose services do not fall within the
categories specified in F.S. § 489.105(3), as amended.
   SITE. The physical clearing of the site in preparation for foundation work
including, but not limited to, site clearing, excavation, de-watering, pilings
and soil testing activities.
   BUILDING. The removal, disassembly, repair, replacement, installation or
assembly of the building, structure, building system or building components in
whole or parts thereof.
   STOP WORK ORDER.  An order by the building official, or his designee, which
requires the immediate cessation of all work and work activities described in
the order.
   STRUCTURAL COMPONENT. Any part of a system, building or structure, load
bearing or non-load bearing, which is integral to the structural integrity
thereof, including but not limited to walls, partitions, columns, beams and
girders.
   STRUCTURAL WORK or ALTERATION. The installation or assembling of new
structural components into a system, building or structure. Also, any change,
repair or replacement of any existing structural component of a system,
building or structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION. Where the construction work has been sufficiently
completed in accordance with the applicable city, state and federal codes, so
that the owner can occupy or utilize the project for the use for which it is
intended.
   VALUE. Job cost.
         (b)   Section 103.
103.1 General. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this code. The building official shall have the
authority to render interpretations of this code. Such interpretations,
policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this code, and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically
provided for in this code.
103.2 Right of entry.
   103.2.1 Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this code, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition
or code violation which makes such building, structure, premises, electrical,
gas, mechanical or plumbing systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the
building official may enter such building, structure or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the
building official by this code. If such building or premises are occupied, he
shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such and
request entry. If entry is refused, the building official shall have recourse
to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   103.2.2 When the building official shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the building official for
the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this code.
103.3 Stop work orders. Upon notice from the building official, work on any
building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system that is
being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the
work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an
emergency exists, the building official shall not be required to give a written
notice prior to stopping the work.
103.4 Revocation of permits. The building official is authorized to suspend or
revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code wherever the permit is
issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete
information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or and provisions
of this code.
   103.4.1 Misrepresentation of application. The building official may revoke a
permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this code, in case there has
been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
   103.4.2 Violation of code provisions. The building official may revoke a
permit upon determination by the building official that the construction,
erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement
of the building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this code.
103.5 Unsafe buildings or systems. All buildings, structures, electrical, gas,
mechanical or plumbing systems which are unsafe, unsanitary, or do not provide
adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous
to human life, or which in relation to existing use, constitute a hazard to
safety or health, are considered unsafe buildings or service systems. All such
unsafe buildings, structures or service systems are hereby declared illegal and
shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance
with the provisions of the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code or other
local ordinance.
103.6 Requirements not covered by code. Any requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building,
structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public
safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this or the
other technical codes, shall be determined by the building official.
         (c)   Section 104.
104.2.1.2 Additional data. The building official shall be allowed to require
details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe
the construction or installation and the basis of calculations.
104.2.4 Site drawings. Drawings shall show the location of the proposed
building or structure and of every existing building or structure on the site
or lot. The building official shall be permitted to require a boundary line
survey prepared by a qualified surveyor whenever the boundary lines cannot be
readily determined in the field.
104.2.5 Hazardous occupancies. The building official may require the following:
   1. General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which
shall include, but not be limited to, the location of all buildings, exterior
storage facilities, permanent access ways, evacuation routes, parking lots,
internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and
sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The
exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard classes and the
maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored.
   2. Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale,
which shall include, but not be limited to, all hazardous materials storage
facilities within the building and shall indicate rooms, doorways, corridors,
exits, fire rated assemblies with their hourly rating, location of liquid tight
rooms, and evacuation routes. Each hazardous materials storage facility shall
be identified on the plan with the hazard classes and quantity range per hazard
class of the hazardous materials stored.
104.3.1.1
   Manufactured / Mobile Homes
   1.   Site requirements
         setback/separation (assumed property lines)
         location of septic tanks (if applicable)
   2.   Structural
         wind zone
         anchoring
         blocking
   4.   Mechanical
         Exhaust systems
            clothes dryer exhaust
            kitchen equipment exhaust
   5.   Electrical
         exterior disconnect location
104.4.6 Public right of way. A permit shall not be given by the building
official for the construction of any building, or for the alteration of any
building where said building is to be changed and such change will affect the
exterior walls, bays, balconies, or other appendages or projections fronting on
any street, alley or public lane, or for the placing on any lot or premises of
any building or structure removed from another lot or premises, unless the
applicant has made application for right of way permits from the authority
having jurisdiction over the street, alley or public lane.
104.5 Conditions of the permit
   104.5.1 Permit intent. A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to
proceed with the work and not as authority to violate, cancel, alter or set
aside any of the provisions of the technical codes, nor shall issuance of a
permit prevent the building official from thereafter requiring a correction of
errors in plans, construction, or violations of this code. Every permit issued
shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced
within 6 months after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned for a period of 6 months after the time the work is
commenced. Failure to obtain an approved inspection within 180 days of the
previous approved inspection shall constitute suspension or abandonment. One or
more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each, may be
allowed by the building official for the permit, provided the extension is
requested in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated prior to the
expiration date. The building official shall record the extension of time
granted.
      104.5.1.5 Permits issued for the demolition of a structure shall expire
sixty (60) days from the date of issuance. For a justifiable cause, one (1)
extension of time for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days may be allowed.
Such request shall be in writing to the building official.
      104.5.1.6 All work for which a permit is required shall be construed to
be a license to proceed with the work only during the following days and hours:
Monday through Friday, from 7 AM - 7 PM; Saturday and Sunday, from 10 AM - 7
PM. In addition to the day and time constraints, all activities shall comply
with the Noise Control provisions of Chapter 91.
104.6.2 Work commencing before permit issuance. Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
before obtaining the building official's approval or the necessary permits
shall be subject to a penalty of 100 percent of the usual permit fee in
addition to the required permit fees or as provided by local ordinance. This
provision shall not apply to emergency work when delay would clearly have
placed life or property in imminent danger. But in all such cases the required
permits must be obtained within three (3) business days and any unreasonable
delay in obtaining those permit(s) shall result in the charge of a double fee.
The payment of a double fee shall not preclude or be deemed a substitute for
prosecution for commencing work without first obtaining a permit. The building
official may grant extensions of time or waive fees when justifiable cause has
been demonstrated in writing.
104.6.5 Types of Fees Enumerated. Fees may be charged for but not limited to
the following:
   - Permits;
   - Plans examination;
   - Certificates of competency (including fees for applications, examinations,
renewal, late renewal, and reciprocity);
   - Re-inspections;
   - Administrative fees (including fees for investigative and legal costs
incurred in the context of certain disciplinary cases heard by the board);
   - Variance requests;
   - Administrative appeals;
   - Violations; and
   - Other fees as established by local ordinance.
104.6.6 Building permit valuations. If, in the opinion of the building
official, the valuation of building, alteration, structure, electrical, gas,
mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application,
permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates to
meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include
total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other
systems, including materials and labor. The permit valuation may be calculated
using the latest Building Valuation Data published by the Southern Building
Code Congress International or other applicable model code organization, at the
option of the building official.
104.10.2 Modifications of the strict application of the requirements of the
Florida Building Code. The Building Official shall coordinate with the
Floodplain Administrator to review requests submitted to the Building Official
that seek approval to modify the strict application of the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code to determine whether
such requests require the granting of a variance pursuant to Section 117.
         (d)    Section 105.
105.1 Existing building inspections. Before issuing a permit, the building
official may examine or cause to be examined any building, electrical, gas,
mechanical, or plumbing systems for which an application has been received for
a permit to enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, install or change the
occupancy. He shall inspect all buildings, structures, electrical, gas,
mechanical and plumbing systems, from time to time, during and upon completion
of the work for which a permit was issued. He shall make a record of every such
examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
105.2 Manufacturers and fabricators. When deemed necessary by the building
official, he shall make, or cause to be made, an inspection of materials or
assemblies at the point of manufacture or fabrication. A record shall be made
of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical
codes.
105.3 Inspection service. The building official may make, or cause to be made,
the inspections required by 105. He or she may accept reports of department
inspectors, independent inspectors or of recognized inspection services,
provided that after investigation he/she is satisfied as to their licensure,
qualifications and reliability. A certificate required by any provision of this
code shall not be based on such reports unless the same are recorded by the
building code inspector or the architect or engineer performing building code
inspections in a manner specified by the building official. The building
official shall ensure that all persons making such inspections shall be
certified in accordance to F.S. Ch. 468.
105.6 Required inspections.
   1.1. Slab Inspection: To be made after the reinforcement is in place, all
concealed conduit, piping, ducts and vents are installed and the electrical,
plumbing and mechanical work is complete. Slab shall not be poured until all
required inspections have been made and passed.
   A foundation survey prepared and certified by a registered surveyor shall be
required for all new construction prior to approval of the framing inspection.
The survey shall certify placement of the building on the site, illustrate all
surrounding setback dimensions and shall be available at the job site for
review by the building inspector. In lieu of providing a survey, the contractor
may elect to uncover all property line markers and string-up all property lines
in preparation for inspection.
   2.1. Insulation Inspection: To be made after the framing inspection is
approved and the insulation is in place.
   3. Sheathing inspection: To be made either as part of a dry-in inspection or
done separately at the request of the contractor after all roof and wall
sheathing and fasteners are complete and shall at a minimum include the
following building components:
      (B)   roof sheathing
      (C)   wall sheathing
      (D)   sheathing fasteners
      (E)   roof/wall/dry-in
   NOTE: Sheathing fasteners installed and found to be missing the structural
member (shiners) shall be removed and properly reinstalled prior to
installation of the dry-in material.
   4. Roofing inspection: To be made as two inspections on tile, slate or
similar roof coverings or as one inspection on all other roof coverings, and
shall at a minimum include the following building components:
      (B)   dry-in
      (C)   insulation
      (D)   roof coverings
      (E)   flashing
   Site Debris
   1.   The contractor and/or owner of any active or inactive construction
project shall be responsible for the clean-up and removal of all construction
debris or any other miscellaneous discarded articles prior to receiving final
inspection approval. Construction job sites must be kept clean, per section
91.32 of the Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
   2.   All debris shall be kept in approved containers as defined in § 91.48
of the Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
         (e)    Section 106.
106.1 Certificate of Occupancy
   106.1.2 Issuing Certificate of Occupancy. Upon completion of construction of
a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and
plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, reviewed plans and
specifications, and after the final inspection, and after verification that all
septic system permits have received an approved final inspection where
applicable, the building official shall issue a Certificate of Occupancy
stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each
floor when limited by law, and the allowable load per square foot for each
floor in accordance with the provisions of this code.
         (f)   Section 107.
107.1 For products not covered under the statewide product evaluation and
approval system, the building official may require tests or test reports as
proof of compliance. Required tests are to be made at the expense of the owner,
or his agent, by an approved testing laboratory or other approved agency.
107.6.1 Building permits issued on the basis of an affidavit. Pursuant to the
requirements of federal regulation for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. Sections 59 and 60), the authority granted to the
Building Official to issue permits, to rely on inspections, and to accept plans
and construction documents on the basis of affidavits and plans submitted
pursuant to Section 105.14 and Section 107.6 shall not extend to the flood load
and flood resistance construction requirements of the Florida Building Code.
         (g)   Section 108.
108.1 If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code.
         (h)   Section 109.
109.1 Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate a provision of
this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, install, demolish or move any
structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or has erected,
constructed, altered, repaired, moved or demolished a building, structure,
electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, in violation of a detailed
statement or drawing submitted and permitted there under, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. Each such person shall be considered guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed or continued.
Upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be punished within the
limits as provided by law and local ordinance.
         (i)   Section 117.
   117.1 Flood hazard areas. Pursuant to F.S. § 553.73(5), the variance
procedures adopted in the local floodplain management ordinance shall apply to
requests submitted to the Building Official for variances to the provisions of
§ 1612.4 of the Florida Building Code, Building or, as applicable, the
provisions of R322 of the Florida Building Code, Residential. This section
shall not apply to Section 3109 of the Florida Building Code, Building.
         (j)   202, Florida Building Code, Existing Building. Modify a
definition as follows:
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place
during a ten-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 40% of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
For each building or structure, the ten-year period begins on the date of the
first improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the
effective date of this chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial
damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
Addition of definition as follows:
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before- damaged condition would
equal or exceed 40% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
         (k)   322.2.1, Florida Building Code, Residential. Modify Section
R322.2.1 as follows:
   R322.2.1 Elevation requirements.
      1.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas not designated as
Coastal A Zones shall have the lowest floors elevated to or above the base
flood elevation plus one and one-half feet (457 mm) or the design flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
      2.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas designated as Coastal
A Zones shall have the lowest floors elevated to or above the base flood
elevation plus one and one-half feet (457 mm), or to the design flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
      3.   In areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones), buildings and structures
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least as high
above the highest adjacent grade as the depth number specified in feet on the
FIRM plus one and one-half feet (457 mm), or at least three and one-half feet
if a depth number is not specified.
      4.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides shall be elevated
to or above the base flood elevation plus one and one-half feet (457 mm) or the
design flood elevation, whichever is higher.
Exception: Enclosed areas below the design flood elevation, including basements
whose floors are not below grade on all sides, shall meet the requirements of
Section R322.2.2.
         (l)   1612.2 Florida Building Code, Building. Modify a definition as
follows:
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place
during a ten-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 40% of
the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
For each building or structure, the ten-year period begins on the date of the
first improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance. If the structure has sustained substantial
damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the
actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
         (m)   1612.4 Florida Building Code, Building.
1612.4.2 Elevation requirements. The minimum elevation requirements shall be as
specified in ASCE 24 or the base flood elevation plus one and one-half feet
(457 mm), whichever is higher.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-25-74; Am. Ord. 78, passed 3- 1-79; Am. Ord. 85, passed 8-2-
79; Am. Ord. 119, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 756, passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 774,
passed 11-2-95; Am. Ord. 851, passed 9-18-97; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02;
Am. Ord. 1218, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1278, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 1465,
passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584, passed 4-5-18)
§ 150.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official duly appointed and delegated by the City Commission is
hereby charged with the responsibility of administering and enforcing this
chapter. He or she may be assisted by other city personnel as necessary to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   The Building Officialor his or her designee shall notify, in writing,
violators of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
necessary action to correct the violation.
   (B)   The Building Official or his or her designee shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; the
removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions, alterations, or structural
changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being performed; or any
other action authorized to insure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The issuance of a permit upon plans and specifications shall not
prevent the Building Official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in these plans and specifications.
   (D)   If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within one year of the date of issuance thereof, the
permit shall expire and shall be cancelled by the Building Official, with
written notice thereof given to the persons affected, together with notice that
any further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed until a
new building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Energy calculations shall be submitted, on forms provided by the
state, when application is made for a building permit.
   (F)   The owner of a building must certify compliance prior to receiving a
permit for construction.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 119, passed 10-23-80; Am. Ord. 756, passed 6-
15-95; Am. Ord. 774, passed 11-2-95; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.05 PERMIT FEES.
   All applications for permits shall be accompanied by an appropriate permit
fee as set forth by the City Commission and codified in
Chapter 163 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79) (Res. 108, passed 10-l8-99; Am. Ord. 199, passed 8-16-
84; Am. Ord. 453, passed 8-17-89; Am. Ord. 726, passed 11-17-94; Am. Ord. 767,
passed 9-6-95; Am. Res. 651, passed 4-5-01; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02; Am.
Ord. 1278, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 1416, passed 3-3-11)
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall commence, or cause to be
commenced, the erection, construction, or alteration of any building structure,
sign, or canopy within the city until an application for a permit therefore has
been previously filed with the city as provided herein, and as provided in
other ordinances of the city, and until a permit therefore has first been
issued by the city. No person, firm, or corporation shall commence, or cause to
be commenced any repair to any existing building, structure, sign, or canopy in
the city until an application for a permit therefore has been previously filed
with the city as provided herein and as provided in all other ordinances of the
city. No repair shall be commenced upon any building, structure, or sign until
a permit therefore has been issued by the city. All work done on or pursuant to
any building or sign permit issued by the city shall conform to the plans or
specifications therefore as approved prior to the issuance of the permit, and
any deviation therefrom shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   When requested by the owner/builder, the city may issue an “early
start” permit: when the plans for interior work or renovations are submitted to
the city; upon the receipt of an affidavit (signed by the registered architect
or engineer) that the plans meet all applicable codes; and with the payment of
the non-refundable fee of $100.00 for the “early start” permit, and of all
other applicable fees. On such a permit, the city shall only allow work to be
completed to the point of the first inspection. If the city finds the plans do
not comply with the applicable codes, the owner or builder shall be required to
submit the appropriate revisions prior to issuance of the actual building
permit.
(Ord.78, passed 3-l-79; Am. Ord. 987, passed 5-4-00; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-
21-02)
Penalty, see § 150.99
Cross-reference:
   Building permits required under zoning regulations, see §
154.29
   Connection of building to public sewer a condition to issuance of building
permit, see
Ch. 155, App. D, § 21(A)
§ 150.07 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Every application for a permit to erect a building or structure or to
materially alter a front, rear, or side elevation of any existing building or
structure in the city shall be accompanied by three sets of detailed plans, and
all detailed structural drawings thereof that the Building Official or
Community Development Director may require. If the plans submitted do not
furnish sufficient information to adequately show the scope of the planned
construction for which a permit has been requested, then there shall be
furnished, in addition to the two sets of detailed plans, one set of detailed
specifications for each proposed work. Both the plans and specifications, when
required by law, shall be prepared by a registered architect or a registered
engineer, qualified under the laws of the state to prepare the plans and
specifications, and no permit therefore shall be issued until the plans, and
specifications when required, have been approved by the Building Official or
his or her designee and other affected city officers. All plans and
specifications for buildings or structures to be erected in the city that are
governed by state laws, must have the standard approval of the proper state
authority before application is made for a permit.
   (B)   All plans shall be drawn at a scale acceptable to the Building
Official and shall show the following.
      (1)   A plot plan which shall show the actual shape and dimensions of the
lot or lots to be built on, the exact size and location on the lot or lots of
proposed and existing buildings and accessory buildings, and the existing and
intended use of each building or part of a building existing or proposed,
driveway, provisions for off-street parking, and other information with regard
to the lot as may be necessary to determine compliance with these regulations.
      (2)   The location and layout of the proposed sewage disposal system.
      (3)   When applicable, the required loading and unloading spaces,
maneuvering space, and openings for ingress and egress.
      (4)   When applicable, grading and drainage plans showing any and all
cuts, fills, and provisions for adequately carrying off surface water on
premises, plus provisions for any surface water on premises, plus provisions
for any surface water which would naturally flow over or through the area.
These plans shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Specifications, when required, shall be full and complete as to the
character of the work, structural details, strength of material, and
workmanship.
      (6)   Other information may be lawfully required by the Building Official
including existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or proposed
uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping units, or
rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on
the lot; and other matters necessary to determine conformance with, and provide
for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building and Life Safety Division after the copies have been identified either
as approved or disapproved, and attested this by the plan examiner's signature
on the copy. One copy shall be kept on the job-site in a waterproof container.
The original, similarly marked, shall be retained by the Building Official.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 756, passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 774, passed 11-
2-95; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.08 CONSTRUCTION.
   Building permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans
and applications approved by the Building Official authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in the approved plans and applications,
and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or
construction in variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.09 PROCEDURE AND FEE SCHEDULE FOR THIRD PARTY REVIEW OF PLANS.
   When deemed necessary by the applicant/developer, plans shall be forwarded
to the Southern Building Code Congress International Public Safety Testing &
Evaluation Services, Inc. (SBCCI PST & ESI) and a non-refundable plan review
fee in accordance with their policies shall be paid to SBCCI PST & ESI by the
applicant/developer at the time application is made for a building permit.
These fees will be in addition to the fees contained in these ordinances.
(Ord. 837, passed 4-17-97; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
IMPACT FEES
§ 150.15 LEVY AND PURPOSE.
   Impact fees are levied on new construction within the city limits in
accordance with the schedule of impact fees and other provisions of this
subchapter, for the purpose of helping to defray the cost of new or expanded
police, fire, public works, and parks and recreational capital facilities and
equipment attributable to new construction within the city limits, and the cost
of those impact fee development studies deemed necessary by the City Commission
and which are conducted by a professional agency or corporation contracted by
the City Commission.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 528, passed 9-20-90; Am. Ord. 1048, passed
3-21-02)
Cross-reference:
   Deposit of impact fees collected into capital expansion trust funds, see §
31.10
§ 150.16 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all new construction within the city limits
except the following:
   (A)   Alterations or expansion of an existing structure where no additional
units are created and the use of the structure is not changed.
   (B)   The replacement of a building or structure with a new building or
structure of the same size and use.
   (C)   The construction of agricultural structures other than residences.
   (D)   The construction of any public-owned, public-purpose structures by
federal, state, or local government.
   (E)   The construction of structures primarily relating to religious, non-
proprietary educational, or charitable purposes.
   (F)   Developments of regional impact approved prior to June 1, 1986.
   (G)   Construction under any building permit originally issued prior to the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.17 DETERMINATION OF FEE AMOUNTS.
   (A)   Impact fees shall be determined and reviewed at the direction of the
City Commission in accordance with a detailed analysis of projected
construction within the city limits; the cost of any expanded or new capital
facilities and equipment for police, fire, public works, and park and
recreation facilities generated by such construction, the costs associated with
such a determination, update or review, and the money otherwise available to
meet those costs. The City Commission may adjust the established impact fee
rates to reflect changes in the cost of relevant capital facilities and
equipment and/or impact fee development studies or related updates or reviews
at such times as it deems appropriate and as circumstances supporting
adjustment may exist.
   (B)   All changes or adjustments in the established impact fee rates shall
be by ordinance and shall apply only to construction for which building permits
are issued after the effective date of the ordinance.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 528, passed 9-20-90; Am. Ord. 658, passed
8-5-93; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.18 SCHEDULE OF IMPACT FEES.
   Effective January 22, 1999 impact fees shall be charged as follows:
 
Impact Fee        Residential Non-Residential
                  (per unit)  (per sq. ft.)
Police protection $165        $.082
Fire protection   175         .129
Recreation        335         .031
Public works      26          .017
Total fees        $701        $.259
 
    *A unit shall mean one residential dwelling.
Note: When structures are provided with automatic fire sprinklers as a result
of local ordinance and not by the Florida Fire Prevention Code or Florida
Building Code, a 50% reduction of the Fire protection impact fee will be
granted
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 777, passed 12-21-95; Am. Ord. 912, passed
1-21-99; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.19 WAIVER OF IMPACT FEE AND PROVISION FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   The City Commission may waive part or all of the impact fees imposed
on a project if it determines that the private space and facilities provided in
the proposed project are of such a nature as to reduce substantially the
project's impact upon the city's capital needs for expansion of public
facilities; or that the fees imposed by this subchapter upon any given project
substantially exceed the clearly demonstrated impact upon public facilities,
including fire, public works, and police facilities.
   (B)   In the event a project owner shall consider any impact fee applicable
to it to be excessive, the City Commission, on application, shall conduct a
hearing to consider alleged overpayment. It shall be the duty of the project
owner to demonstrate to the City Commission by clear and convincing evidence
that applicable impact fees are substantially excessive as applied to the
project. The Commission may adjust the fees based on the evidence presented.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
§ 150.20 TIME OF PAYMENT; REMEDIES FOR NON-PAYMENT; CREDIT OF FEES.
   (A)   Impact fees for water and sewer pursuant to
Chapter 50 and
55 shall be due and payable at the time of issuance by the city of a site
permit for new construction. Modifications or change in use may require
additional impact fees and shall be verified by the Community Development
Department prior to issuance of any permit. No site or building permit shall be
issued until water and sewer impact fees have been verified and paid to the
city.
   (B)   All other city and county impact fees shall be due and payable at the
time of issuance by the city of a building permit. No building permit shall be
issued until all applicable impact fees have been received by the city.
   (C)   All impact fees collected shall be deemed to accrue to the benefit of
the parcel or parcels of real property constituting a project for which a
building permit is issued. Further, if and in the event the new construction
for which a building permit is issued shall not take place and said building
permit shall lapse, any impact fees collected as an incident to the issuance of
that building permit shall be maintained by the city, to be credited against
any impact fees which may be charged at the time of the issuance of any
building permit for new construction upon or involving the property for which a
previous building permit has been issued and impact fees collected. If
subsequent impact fees exceed the amount collected and maintained by the city
under any previous building permit, then the additional sum shall be paid as a
condition of and at the time of the issuance of the subsequent building permit.
(Ord. 279, passed 3-19-87; Am. Ord. 523, passed 9-6-90; Am. Ord. 777, passed
12-21-95; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02; Am. Ord. 1412, passed 1-20-11)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter and the standards set forth herein shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or incarceration for not more than
90 days, or both. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a new and
separate offense.
(Ord. 78, passed 3-1-79; Am. Ord. 1048, passed 3-21-02)
CHAPTER 150A: UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM
Section
   
150A.01   Purpose of uniform addressing system
   
150A.02   Definitions
   
150A.03   Uniform addressing system established; incorporation of map
   
150A.04   Administration and assignment of addresses
   
150A.05   Posting of numbers
   
150A.06   Municipal annexation
   
150A.07   Address changes
   
150A.99   Penalty
§ 150A.01 PURPOSE OF UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of providing a uniform addressing
system for the assignment of address numbers to buildings and structures
located on or with access from officially named public and private streets and
ways in the city, in the interest of the public health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
§ 150A.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building which is clearly incidental or subordinate to
and customarily utilized adjacent to and in connection with a principal
building located on the same lot.
   BUILDING FRONT OR FACADE. The main entrance or access of the building where
numbers properly posted would be visible from a public or private street to
which the building is numbered. When a building is constructed on a corner lot,
the building front shall be that area of the building that is the main public
egress. By way of example, if a building is on the corner lot of street "A" and
street "B," and architecturally appears to be fronting street "A," but the side
of the building that has the primary entrance or access faces street "B," then
the building will be addressed to street "B." The front of the building for
addressing purposes will be determined by the city's public safety departments
and the Seminole County Addressing Coordinator.
   BUILDING ADDRESSING MAPS. A master set of maps which, in conjunction with
approved plats and site plans, details the existing street names and numbering
scheme and the projected street name and numbering scheme within Seminole
County.
   E-9-1-1 COORDINATOR. That person designated by the City Manager to assist
Seminole County in designing, implementing and maintaining an emergency
telephone response system which involves the expeditious response of public
safety, police and other services resulting from such emergency telephone
system.
   GRID SYSTEM GUIDE. A series of designated north/south parallel lines
intersecting a second set of east/west parallel lines, as indicated on the
official "master grid maps", currently delineated on a 1:2000 map of Seminole
County.
   NONCONFORMANCE. Any failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to by way of example: a number out of sequence, odd
or even number on wrong side of street, rural box numbers, numbers improperly
affixed, numbers illegible, numbers unclear, numbers obstructed, numbers not
visible, numbers not present, numbers of improper size, numbers not in contrast
with immediate background, weather-worn numbers, wrong numbers, and non-
approved numbers.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, firm, entity, partnership, trust, corporation,
association, or other organization who is occupying or leasing a building or
other.
   OWNER. Any and all persons, firms, entities, partnerships, trust,
corporation, associations, or other interest in, any building or property which
is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. Any structure which is designed, built or used for the
support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property of
any kind for any residential, commercial, or industrial purpose.
   PRIVATE WAY. Any street, road, avenue, drive, cul-de-sac or other
thoroughfare used for vehicular traffic and any easement or right-of-way that
provides sole access to more than one parcel or lot which is not included in
the definition of PUBLIC WAY and which is not maintained by Seminole County,
the City of Lake Mary or the Florida Department of Transportation. This term
shall include, but is not limited to roadways or driveways in mobile home
parks, apartments, condominiums, and commercial or industrial complexes, which
have been named and signed in accordance with the comprehensive plan of this
city.
   PROJECTED STREET NAME AND NUMBERING SCHEME. All approved site plans and
plats, including amendments thereto, which contain projected street names and
addresses although no construction or development has occurred on the projected
street.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any area of a public road or right-of-way, either paved or
unpaved, which is intended for vehicular traffic, and that has been dedicated
to the City of Lake Mary, Seminole county or State of Florida for the purpose
of vehicular traffic and for use as a thoroughfare for vehicular traffic
whether accepted or not by the city, excluding, however, service entrances or
driveways.
   UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM. A system by which existing buildings, units
within buildings, projected lots and parcels for future buildings are assigned
addresses in a coordinated and uniform method based on a designated grid system
contained in the official master grid maps.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
§ 150A.03 UNIFORM ADDRESSING SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; INCORPORATION OF MAP
   A uniform addressing system, as shown on the maps, identified by the title,
"Address Master Maps", and filed in the office of the Seminole County
Addressing Coordinator is hereby adopted for use in this city pursuant to an
interlocal agreement on file with the Board of County Commissioners and this
city. Upon adoption, the uniform addressing system maps and the grid maps and
each amendment thereto shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
§ 150A.04 ADMINISTRATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF ADDRESSES.
   (A)   The Seminole County Addressing Coordinator has been assigned
responsibility for coordinating and maintaining the numbering system by the
Board of County Commissioners. The Coordinator shall assign building numbers
and street names in conformity with the uniform addressing system, with the
exception of areas identified in division (B). Charges for such assignments
shall be made in accordance with a fee schedule duly adopted by resolution by
the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The city shall retain the authority to address a lot, parcel or
building that is owned, leased or operated by the city.
   (C)   Should an existing building fail to conform with the uniform
addressing system, the Seminole County Addressing Coordinator will give notice
to those owners or occupants whose building number is in nonconformity. The
notice will be delivered to the owner or occupant by certified mail, return
receipt requested, by posting the same in a conspicuous place on the property
or by hand delivery. The notice may include a notification of a change of
address which shall contain the new building number(s) assigned to the building
in accordance with the uniform addressing system and shall direct the owner or
the occupant to post the newly assigned building number on the building or
property in accordance with the provisions of the uniform addressing system.
The owners or occupants shall have 30 days from receipt of the notice sent by
certified mail, from the date of delivery, if delivered by hand, or from the
date of posting, if the notice is posted on the property, to come into
compliance.
   (D)   Assignment by the Seminole County Addressing Coordinator of a number
to a lot or parcel on which a projected future building may be constructed
shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of a Building Permit for any
such building.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
Penalty, see § 150A.99
§ 150A.05 POSTING OF NUMBERS.
   All buildings within the municipal limits of the city shall have its
assigned building number properly displayed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and the Florida Fire Prevention Code, whether or not mail is
delivered to such building or property. It shall be the duty of the owners and
occupants of each building in the city to post the assigned building number on
the property in conformity with this chapter as follows:
   (A)   The building address number shall be permanently affixed to the
building front or facade as defined herein, or to a separate structure such as
a mailbox, post, wall, fence, or other visible and commonly used area, in such
a manner as to be clearly visible and legible and without obstruction from the
public or private way on which the building fronts.
   (B)   The location of the affixed numbers shall not cause confusion as to
which property they are assigned to when not posted directly on the principal
building.
   (C)   The numerals shall be of a contrasting color with the immediate
background of the building or structure on which such numerals are affixed and
shall not be less than three inches in height for residential buildings,
structures or portions thereof, and at least six inches in height for all other
buildings, structures or portions thereof.
   (D)   Numerals shall be made of a durable weather-resistant material.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
Penalty, see § 150A.99
§ 150A.06 MUNICIPAL ANNEXATION.
   Whenever a parcel of land, a subdivision, or any part thereof, becomes part
of the municipal limits of this city, by annexation, the Seminole County
Addressing Coordinator will review the address numbers of such property and
determine whether such numbers, their posting, and the method of numbering for
such annexed portion conforms to the designated grid system and the uniform
building addressing system within 30 days of such annexation.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
§ 150A.07 ADDRESS CHANGES.
   (A)   If the number, posting, or method of numbering a building is in
nonconformance with Seminole County's grid system and uniform addressing system
after a municipal annexation, the Seminole County Addressing Coordinator will
give notice of the nonconformance to the owners or occupants of the affected
building or property.
   (B)   The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested; by posting the notice in a conspicuous place on the building; or by
hand delivery.
   (C)   The notice shall include a notification or a change of address which
shall contain the correct or new building number(s) assigned to the building or
property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the date of
notification.
   (D)   The notice shall direct the owner or the occupant to post the newly
assigned building number(s) contained in the change of address on the building
or property in accordance with this chapter.
   (E)   The notice shall notify the owner or occupant that, if he or she
disagrees with the determination of the Seminole County Addressing Coordinator,
an appeal may be taken regarding the determination made. The Deputy County
Manager or his or her functional successor shall hear such appeals.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
Penalty, see § 150A.99
§ 150A.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, entity, partnership, trust, corporation,
association, or other organization failing to comply with the provision of this
chapter shall be punished as provided by general law.
   (B)   The City Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction over
violations of this chapter. Proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall
be governed by its rules and procedures.
(Ord. 491, passed 3-1-90; Am. Ord. 1119, passed 2-5-04)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
   
151.02   Guide for development
   
151.03   Compliance with city policy
   
151.04   Environmental impact
Cross-reference:
   Vested rights affecting conformity to plan, see
Chapter 155, Appendix H
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The city comprehensive plan approved with the adoption of this chapter on 9-
18-80, is hereby approved as an official land use plan for the city, a copy of
the plan being incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 58, passed 9-22-77; Am. Ord. 115, passed 9-18-80)
§ 151.02 GUIDE FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of the plan is to provide an official guide and
planning tool for the orderly future development and use of land within the
city, for use by the City Council, and any existing or subsequently created
boards or agencies of city government, and other state or local government
agencies or districts. The comprehensive plan is intended to promote an
arrangement of land use, traffic circulation, utilities, public services, and
density limitations compatible with the available natural resources and in
conformity with the economic and physical health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of the city based on consideration of the following factors.
      (1)   The geographic configuration of the city.
      (2)   The population projections of the city.
      (3)   The existing land use classifications within the city.
      (4)   The existing traffic flow within the city and projected methods of
increasing the capacity of traffic.
      (5)   The existing and potential limitations of an available water
supply.
      (6)   The existing and projected means of wastewater disposal.
      (7)   The demand for public services required by the projected
population.
      (8)   The preservation of natural resources.
      (9)   The preservation and promotion of the welfare and convenience of
the city.
   (B)   The comprehensive plan for the city is not intended to be an official
zoning map but is rather a legal document adopted pursuant to F.S. §§ 163.3161
-163.3211, and is intended to be a planning tool for arriving at decisions
based on the recommendations and conclusions contained in the plan.
(Ord. 58, passed 9-22-77; Am. Ord. 115, passed 9-18-80)
§ 151.03 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY POLICY.
   The city comprehensive plan contains goals, objectives, and implementation
mechanisms which are considered to represent official city policy. All
development decisions should be consistent with these goals and objectives. The
implementation mechanisms include alternative means of accomplishing the city's
goals and objectives, which may change without amending the plan.
(Ord. 58, passed 9-22-77; Am. Ord. 115, passed 9-18-80)
§ 151.04 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT.
   (A)   If the plans set forth in the land use element are carried out, the
environment of the city will be affected. In some instances, the effects will
be adverse, while in others they will be beneficial.
   (B)   The adverse impacts of the plan on the environment include the
following.
      (1)   Some erosion or sedimentation may occur during construction
activities.
      (2)   Urban runoff will be increased as streets and parking areas are
asphalted.
      (3)   Drainage ways may become overburdened and clogged if erosion is
significant and the vegetation is removed.
      (4)   Air quality may decline as growth accelerates.
      (5)   Water quality within the lakes may decline as urban runoff
increases.
   (C)   Certain beneficial impacts of the plan on the environment are as
follows.
      (1)   The plan sets forth certain areas to be retained in their natural
state. Preservation of these areas will be a positive impact.
      (2)   Provision of sanitary sewerage facilities helps to eliminate one
primary source of pollution.
      (3)   Orderly growth as a result of the plan will promote environmental
conservation.
   (D)   There are certain unavoidable adverse environmental effects associated
with development. Among these are the following.
      (1)   Erosion, waste, and debris accumulation.
      (2)   Loss of some vacant land to development.
      (3)   Deterioration of air quality.
(Ord. 135, passed 5-7-81)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Administration
   
152.01   General provisions
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.04   Permits
   
152.05   Site plans and construction documents
   
152.06   Inspections
   
152.07   Variances and appeals
   
152.08   Violations
Definitions
   
152.20   Definitions
Flood Resistant Development
   
152.35   Buildings and structures
   
152.36   Subdivisions
   
152.37   Site improvements, utilities and limitations
   
152.38   Manufactured homes
   
152.39   Recreational vehicles and park trailers
   
152.40   Tanks
   
152.41   Other development
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Floodplain Management
Ordinance of the City of Lake Mary, Florida, hereinafter referred to as "this
chapter.”
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development
that is wholly within or partially within any flood hazard area, including but
not limited to the subdivision of land; filling, grading, and other site
improvements and utility installations; construction, alteration, remodeling,
enlargement, improvement, replacement, repair, relocation or demolition of
buildings, structures, and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building
Code; placement, installation, or replacement of manufactured homes and
manufactured buildings; installation or replacement of tanks; placement of
recreational vehicles; installation of swimming pools; and any other
development.
   (C)   Intent. The purposes of this chapter and the flood load and flood
resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code are to
establish minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding
through regulation of development in flood hazard areas to:
      (1)   Minimize unnecessary disruption of commerce, access and public
service during times of flooding;
      (2)   Require the use of appropriate construction practices in order to
prevent or minimize future flood damage;
      (3)   Manage filling, grading, dredging, mining, paving, excavation,
drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials, and other development
which may increase flood damage or erosion potential;
      (4)   Manage the alteration of flood hazard areas, watercourses, and
shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial
functions of the floodplain;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public and private facilities and utilities;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas;
      (7)   Minimize the need for future expenditure of public funds for flood
control projects and response to and recovery from flood events; and
      (8)   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program for
community participation as set forth in the Title 44 Code of Federal
Regulations, Section 59.22.
   (D)   Coordination with the Florida Building Code. This chapter is intended
to be administered and enforced in conjunction with the Florida Building Code.
Where cited, ASCE 24 refers to the edition of the standard that is referenced
by the Florida Building Code.
   (E)   Warning. The degree of flood protection required by this chapter and
the Florida Building Code, as amended by this community, is considered the
minimum reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may
be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside of mapped special flood hazard areas, or that uses permitted
within such flood hazard areas, will be free from flooding or flood damage. The
flood hazard areas and base flood elevations contained in the flood insurance
study and shown on flood insurance rate maps and the requirements of Title 44
Code of Federal Regulations, Sections 59 and 60 may be revised by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, requiring this community to revise these
regulations to remain eligible for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program. No guaranty of vested use, existing use, or future use is
implied or expressed by compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Disclaimer of liability. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the City Commission of the City of Lake Mary, Florida or by any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
   (B)   Areas to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
flood hazard areas within the City of Lake Mary, Florida, as established in §
152.02(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Basis for establishing flood hazard areas. The Flood Insurance Study
for Seminole County, Florida and Incorporated Areas dated September 28, 2007,
and all subsequent amendments and revisions, and the accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM), and all subsequent amendments and revisions to such
maps, are adopted by reference as a part of this chapter and shall serve as the
minimum basis for establishing flood hazard areas. Studies and maps that
establish flood hazard areas are on file at:
   Seminole County Public Library
   Lake Mary Branch
   580 Greenway Blvd
   Lake Mary, FL 32746
   (D)   Submission of additional data to establish flood hazard areas. To
establish flood hazard areas and base flood elevations, pursuant to §
152.05 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may require submission of
additional data. Where field surveyed topography prepared by a Florida licensed
professional surveyor or digital topography accepted by the community indicates
that ground elevations:
      (1)   Are below the closest applicable base flood elevation, even in
areas not delineated as a special flood hazard area on a FIRM, the area shall
be considered as a flood hazard area and subject to the requirements of this
chapter and, as applicable, the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
      (2)   Are above the closest applicable base flood elevation, the area
shall be regulated as special flood hazard area unless the applicant obtains a
Letter of Map Change that removes the area from the special flood hazard area.
   (E)   Other laws. The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to
nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
   (F)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter supersedes any
ordinance in effect for management of development in flood hazard areas.
However, it is not intended to repeal or abrogate any existing ordinances
including but not limited to land development regulations, zoning ordinances,
stormwater management regulations or the Florida Building Code. In the event of
a conflict between this chapter and any other ordinance, the more restrictive
shall govern. This chapter shall not impair any deed restriction, covenant or
easement, but any land that is subject to such interests shall also be governed
by this chapter.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.03 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation. The Public Works Director is designated as the Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator may delegate performance of certain
duties to other employees.
   (B)   General. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Floodplain
Administrator shall have the authority to render interpretations of this
chapter consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter and may
establish policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its
provisions. Such interpretations, policies, and procedures shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided in this chapter without
the granting of a variance pursuant to §
152.07 of this chapter.
   (C)   Applications and permits. The Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with other pertinent offices of the community, shall:
      (1)   Review applications and plans to determine whether proposed new
development will be located in flood hazard areas;
      (2)   Review applications for modification of any existing development in
flood hazard areas for compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries where such interpretation is
necessary to determine the exact location of boundaries; a person contesting
the determination shall have the opportunity to appeal the interpretation;
      (4)   Provide available flood elevation and flood hazard information;
      (5)   Determine whether additional flood hazard data shall be obtained
from other sources or shall be developed by an applicant;
      (6)   Review applications to determine whether proposed development will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (7)   Issue floodplain development permits or approvals for development
other than buildings and structures that are subject to the Florida Building
Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code, when compliance with this chapter is demonstrated, or disapprove
the same in the event of noncompliance;
      (8)   Coordinate with and provide comments to the Building Official to
assure that applications, plan reviews, and inspections for buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas comply with the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Substantial improvements and substantial damage determinations. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage. The determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of "substantial improvement"; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant provisions of the Florida Building Code and this
chapter is required.
   (E)   Modifications of the strict application of the requirements of the
Florida Building Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall review requests
submitted to the Building Official that seek approval to modify the strict
application of the flood load and flood resistant construction requirements of
the Florida Building Code to determine whether such requests require the
granting of a variance pursuant to §
152.07 of this chapter.
   (F)   Notices and orders. The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with
appropriate local agencies for the issuance of all necessary notices or orders
to ensure compliance with this ordinance.
   (G)   Inspections. The Floodplain Administrator shall make the required
inspections as specified in §
152.06 of this chapter for development that is not subject to the Florida
Building Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the
Florida Building Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect flood hazard
areas to determine if development is undertaken without issuance of a permit.
   (H)   Other duties of the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain
Administrator shall have other duties, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Establish, in coordination with the Building Official, procedures
for administering and documenting determinations of substantial improvement and
substantial damage made pursuant to §
152.03(D) of this chapter;
      (2)   Require that applicants proposing alteration of a watercourse
notify adjacent communities and the Florida Division of Emergency Management,
State Floodplain Management Office, and submit copies of such notifications to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (3)   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data and
information necessary to maintain the flood insurance rate maps if the analyses
propose to change base flood elevations, flood hazard area boundaries, or
floodway designations. Such submissions shall be made within six months of such
data becoming available;
      (4)   Review required design certifications and documentation of
elevations specified by this chapter and the Florida Building Code and this
chapter to determine that such certifications and documentations are complete;
and
      (5)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of the City of Lake Mary, Florida are modified.
   (I)   Floodplain management records. Regardless of any limitation on the
period required for retention of public records, the Floodplain Administrator
shall maintain and permanently keep and make available for public inspection
all records that are necessary for the administration of this chapter and the
flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code,
including flood insurance rate maps; letters of change; records of issuance of
permits and denial of permits; determinations of whether proposed work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; required
design certifications and documentation of elevations specified by the Florida
Building Code and this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities, FEMA,
and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the flood
carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained; documentation
related to appeals and variances, including justification for issuance or
denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this chapter and
the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code.
These records shall be available for public inspection at:
   Municipal Services Complex
   911 Wallace Ct.
   Lake Mary, FL 32746
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584,
passed 4-5-18)
§ 152.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. Any owner or owner's authorized agent (hereinafter
"applicant") who intends to undertake any development activity within the scope
of this chapter including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the
Florida Building Code, which is wholly within or partially within any flood
hazard area shall first make application to the Floodplain Administrator, and
the Building Official if applicable, and shall obtain the required permit(s)
and approval(s). No such permit or approval shall be issued until compliance
with the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable codes and
regulations has been satisfied.
   (B)   Floodplain development permits or approvals. Floodplain development
permits or approvals shall be issued pursuant to this chapter for any
development activities not subject to the requirements of the Florida Building
Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code. Depending on the nature and extent of proposed development that
includes a building or structure, the Floodplain Administrator may determine
that a floodplain development permit or approval is required in addition to a
building permit.
   (C)   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code. Pursuant to the requirements of federal regulation for participation in
the National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. Sections 59 and 60), floodplain
development permits or approvals shall be required for the following buildings,
structures and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code and
any further exemptions provided by law, which are subject to the requirements
of this chapter:
      (1)   Railroads and ancillary facilities associated with the railroad;
      (2)   Nonresidential farm buildings on farms, as provided in F.S. §
604.50;
      (3)   Temporary buildings or sheds used exclusively for construction
purposes;
      (4)   Mobile or modular structures used as temporary offices;
      (5)   Those structures or facilities of electric utilities, as defined in
F.S. § 366.02, which are directly involved in the generation, transmission, or
distribution of electricity;
      (6)   Chickees constructed by the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida
or the Seminole Tribe of Florida. As used in this paragraph, the term "chickee"
means an open-sided wooden hut that has a thatched roof of palm or palmetto or
other traditional materials, and that does not incorporate any electrical,
plumbing, or other non-wood features;
      (7)   Family mausoleums not exceeding 250 square feet in area which are
prefabricated and assembled on site or preassembled and delivered on site and
have walls, roofs, and a floor constructed of granite, marble, or reinforced
concrete;
      (8)   Temporary housing provided by the Department of Corrections to any
prisoner in the state correctional system; and
      (9)   Structures identified in F.S. § 553.73(10)(k), are not exempt from
the Florida Building Code if such structures are located in flood hazard areas
established on flood insurance rate maps.
   (D)   Application for a permit or approval. To obtain a floodplain
development permit or approval the applicant shall first file an application in
writing on a form furnished by the community. The information provided shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the permit
or approval;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
conducted by legal description, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the site;
      (3)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a site plan or construction documents as
specified in §
152.05 of this chapter;
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work;
      (6)   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent; and
      (7)   Give such other data and information as required by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (E)   Validity of permit or approval. The issuance of a floodplain
development permit or approval pursuant to this chapter shall not be construed
to be a permit for, or approval of, any violation of this chapter, the Florida
Building Codes, or any other ordinance of this community. The issuance of
permits based on submitted applications, construction documents, and
information shall not prevent the Floodplain Administrator from requiring the
correction of errors and omissions.
   (F)   Expiration. A floodplain development permit or approval shall become
invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days
after its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a
period of 180 days after the work commences. Extensions for periods of not more
than 180 days each shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be
demonstrated.
   (G)   Suspension or revocation. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized
to suspend or revoke a floodplain development permit or approval if the permit
was issued in error, on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete
information, or in violation of this chapter or any other ordinance, regulation
or requirement of this community.
   (H)   Other permits required. Floodplain development permits and building
permits shall include a condition that all other applicable state or federal
permits be obtained before commencement of the permitted development, including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The St. John's River Water Management District; F.S. § 373.036;
      (2)   Florida Department of Health for onsite sewage treatment and
disposal systems; F.S. § 381.0065, and Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C.;
      (3)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities
subject to the Joint Coastal Permit; F.S. § 161.055;
      (4)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities that
affect wetlands and alter surface water flows, in conjunction with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers; Section 404 of the Clean Water Act; and
      (5)   Federal permits and approval.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-7-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.05 SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Information for development in flood hazard areas.
      (1)   The site plan or construction documents for any development subject
to the requirements of this chapter shall be drawn to scale and shall include,
as applicable to the proposed development:
         (a)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zone(s), base flood elevation(s), and ground elevations if necessary for review
of the proposed development;
         (b)   Where base flood elevations or floodway data are not included on
the FIRM or in the flood insurance study, they shall be established in
accordance with § 152.05(B)(2) or (3) of this chapter;
         (c)   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take
place will have more than 50 lots or is larger than five acres and the base
flood elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the flood insurance study,
such elevations shall be established in accordance with §
152.05(B)(1) of this chapter;
         (d)   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures;
         (e)   Minimum finished floor elevation set to at least 1.5 feet above
the 100-year flood elevation. It is the responsibility of the developer to
insure that all finished floor elevations are set to 1.5 feet above the 100-
year flood elevation;
         (f)   Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any
filling, grading, or excavation;
         (g)   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; and evidence that the proposed fill areas
are the minimum necessary to achieve the intended purpose;
         (h)   Location, extent, and amount of the floodplain compensation
area; and
         (i)   Existing and proposed alignment of any proposed alteration of a
watercourse.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the submission
of site plans, construction documents, and other data that are required by this
chapter but that are not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional if it is found that the nature of the proposed development is such
that the review of such submissions is not necessary to ascertain compliance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Information in flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
(approximate Zone A). Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the FIRM and
base flood elevation data have not been provided, the Floodplain Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data prepared
in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices.
      (2)   Obtain, review, and provide to applicants base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal or state agency or other source or
require the applicant to obtain and use base flood elevation and floodway data
available from a federal or state agency or other source.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation and floodway data are not available from
another source, where the available data are deemed by the Floodplain
Administrator to not reasonably reflect flooding conditions, or where the
available data are known to be scientifically or technically incorrect or
otherwise inadequate:
         (a)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data
prepared in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices; or
         (b)   Specify that the base flood elevation is three and one-half feet
above the highest adjacent grade at the location of the development, provided
there is no evidence indicating flood depths have been or may be greater than
three and one-half feet.
      (4)   Where the base flood elevation data are to be used to support a
Letter of Map Change from FEMA, advise the applicant that the analyses shall be
prepared by a Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA, and that
it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the submittal
requirements and pay the processing fees.
   (C)   Additional analyses and certifications. As applicable to the location
and nature of the proposed development activity, and in addition to the
requirements of this section, the applicant shall have the following analyses
signed and sealed by a Florida licensed engineer for submission with the site
plan and construction documents:
      (1)   For development activities proposed to be located in a regulatory
floodway, a floodway encroachment analysis that demonstrates that the
encroachment of the proposed development will not cause any increase in base
flood elevations; where the applicant proposes to undertake development
activities that do increase base flood elevations, the applicant shall submit
such analysis to FEMA as specified in §
152.05(D) of this chapter and shall submit the conditional letter of map
revision, if issued by FEMA, with the site plan and construction documents;
      (2)   For development activities proposed to be located in a riverine
flood hazard area for which base flood elevations are included in the flood
insurance study or on the FIRM and floodways have not been designated,
hydrological and hydraulic analyses that demonstrate that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated flood hazard area encroachments, will not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point within the community. This
requirement does not apply in isolated flood hazard areas not connected to a
riverine flood hazard area or in flood hazard areas identified as Zone AO or
Zone AH; and
      (3)   For alteration of a watercourse, an engineering analysis prepared
in accordance with standard engineering practices which demonstrates that the
flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse
will not be decreased, and certification that the altered watercourse shall be
maintained in a manner which preserves the channel's flood-carrying capacity;
the applicant shall submit the analysis to FEMA as specified in §
152.05(D) of this chapter.
   (D)   Submission of additional data. When additional hydrologic, hydraulic
or other engineering data, studies, and additional analyses are submitted to
support an application, the applicant has the right to seek a letter of map
change from FEMA to change the base flood elevations, change floodway
boundaries, or change boundaries of flood hazard areas shown on FIRMs, and to
submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The analyses shall be prepared by a
Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA. Submittal requirements
and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General. Development for which a floodplain development permit or
approval is required shall be subject to inspection.
   (B)   Development other than buildings and structures. The Floodplain
Administrator shall inspect all development to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and the conditions of issued floodplain
development permits or approvals.
   (C)   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect buildings, structures and
facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code to determine compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and the conditions of issued floodplain
development permits or approvals.
   (D)   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code, lowest floor inspection. Upon placement of the lowest floor, including
basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the owner of a building,
structure or facility exempt from the Florida Building Code, or the owner's
authorized agent, shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator:
      (1)   If a design flood elevation was used to determine the required
elevation of the lowest floor, the certification of elevation of the lowest
floor prepared and sealed by a Florida licensed professional surveyor; or
      (2)   If the elevation used to determine the required elevation of the
lowest floor was determined in accordance with §
152.05(B)(3)(b) of this chapter, the documentation of height of the lowest
floor above highest adjacent grade, prepared by the owner or the owner's
authorized agent.
   (E)   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code, final inspection. As part of the final inspection, the owner or owner's
authorized agent shall submit to the Floodplain Administrator a final
certification of elevation of the lowest floor or final documentation of the
height of the lowest floor above the highest adjacent grade; such
certifications and documentations shall be prepared as specified in §
152.06(D) of this chapter.
   (F)   Manufactured homes. The Building Official shall inspect manufactured
homes that are installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to determine
compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the conditions of the
issued permit. Upon placement of a manufactured home, certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor shall be submitted to the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.07 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   General. The Planning and Zoning Board, as established by the city,
shall hear and decide on requests for appeals and requests for variances from
the strict application of this chapter. Pursuant to F.S. § 553.73(5), the Board
of Adjustment shall hear and decide on requests for appeals and requests for
variances from the strict application of the flood resistant construction
requirements of the Florida Building Code.
   (B)   Appeals. The Planning and Zoning Board shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Planning and Zoning Board may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as
provided by Florida Statutes.
   (C)   Limitations on authority to grant variances. The Planning and Zoning
Board shall base its decisions on variances on technical justifications
submitted by applicants, the considerations for issuance in §
152.07(G)of this chapter, the conditions of issuance set forth in §
152.07(H) of this chapter, and the comments and recommendations of the
Floodplain Administrator and the Building Official. The Planning and Zoning
Board has the right to attach such conditions as it deems necessary to further
the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   Restrictions in floodways. A variance shall not be issued for any
proposed development in a floodway if any increase in base flood elevations
would result, as evidenced by the applicable analyses and certifications
required in §
152.05(C) of this chapter.
   (E)   Historic buildings. A variance is authorized to be issued for the
repair, improvement, or rehabilitation of a historic building that is
determined eligible for the exception to the flood resistant construction
requirements of the Florida Building Code, Existing Building, Chapter 12
Historic Buildings, upon a determination that the proposed repair, improvement,
or rehabilitation will not preclude the building's continued designation as a
historic building and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the building. If the proposed work precludes
the building's continued designation as a historic building, a variance shall
not be granted and the building and any repair, improvement, and rehabilitation
shall be subject to the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
   (F)   Functionally dependent uses. A variance is authorized to be issued for
the construction or substantial improvement necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, as defined in this chapter, provided the variance
meets the requirements of §
152.07(D), is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, and all due
consideration has been given to use of methods and materials that minimize
flood damage during occurrence of the base flood.
   (G)   Considerations for issuance of variances. In reviewing requests for
variances, the Planning and Zoning Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all other applicable provisions of the
Florida Building Code, this chapter, and the following:
      (1)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents,
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development
to the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed
development that are subject to lower risk of flooding or erosion;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for the area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris
and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and
bridges.
   (H)   Conditions for issuance of variances. Variances shall be issued only
upon:
      (1)   Submission by the applicant of a showing of good and sufficient
cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography
of the site limit compliance with any provision of this chapter or the required
elevation standards;
      (2)   Determination by the Planning and Zoning Board that:
         (a)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship due to the physical characteristics of the land that render the lot
undevelopable. Increased costs to satisfy the requirements or inconvenience do
not constitute hardship;
         (b)   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nor
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict
with existing local laws and ordinances; and
         (c)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      (3)   Receipt of a signed statement by the applicant that the variance,
if granted, shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Court in such a
manner that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (4)   If the request is for a variance to allow construction of the
lowest floor of a new building, or substantial improvement of a building, below
the required elevation, a copy in the record of a written notice from the
Floodplain Administrator to the applicant for the variance, specifying the
difference between the base flood elevation and the proposed elevation of the
lowest floor, stating that the cost of federal flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation
(up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage), and stating that
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584,
passed 4-5-18)
§ 152.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations. Any development that is not within the scope of the
Florida Building Code but that is regulated by this chapter that is performed
without an issued permit, that is in conflict with an issued permit, or that
does not fully comply with this chapter, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter. A building or structure without the documentation of elevation of the
lowest floor, other required design certifications, or other evidence of
compliance required by this chapter or the Florida Building Code is presumed to
be a violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   (B)   Authority. For development that is not within the scope of the Florida
Building Code but that is regulated by this chapter and that is determined to
be a violation, the Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve notices of
violation or stop work orders to owners of the property involved, to the
owner's agent, or to the person or persons performing the work.
   (C)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both; and in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and terms shall, for
the purposes of this chapter have the meanings shown in this section. Where
terms are not defined in this chapter and are defined in the Florida Building
Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in that code. Where
terms are not defined in this chapter or the Florida Building Code, such terms
shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
   “ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE.” A dam, impoundment, channel relocation,
change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area
of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which
may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the
riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   “ASCE 24.” A standard titled Flood Resistant Design and Construction that is
referenced by the Florida Building Code. ASCE 24 is developed and published by
the American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA.
   “BASE FLOOD.” A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.] The base flood is commonly
referred to as the "100-year flood" or the "1% annual chance flood."
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.” The elevation of the base flood, including wave
height, relative to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) or other datum specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM). [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “BASEMENT.” The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides. [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202; see “Basement
(for flood loads)”.]
   “DESIGN FLOOD.” The flood associated with the greater of the following two
areas: [Also defined in 35 FBC, B, Section 202.]
      (1)   Area with a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any year; or
      (2)   Area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
   “DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION.” The elevation of the "design flood," including
wave height, relative to the datum specified on the community's legally
designated flood hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO, the design flood
elevation shall be the elevation of the highest existing grade of the
building's perimeter plus the depth number (in feet) specified on the flood
hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO where the depth number is not
specified on the map, the depth number shall be taken as being equal to two
feet. [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks, temporary
structures, temporary or permanent storage of equipment or materials, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations or any
other land disturbing activities.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The placement of fill, excavation, buildings, permanent
structures or other development into a flood hazard area which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
   “EXISTING BUILDING” and “EXISTING STRUCTURE.” Any buildings and structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced before March 18, 1980. [Also
defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before March 18, 1980.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).” The federal agency that, in
addition to carrying out other functions, administers the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   “FLOOD” or “FLOODING.” A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land from: [Also defined in FBC, B, Section
202.]
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   “FLOOD DAMAGE-RESISTANT MATERIALS.” Any construction material capable of
withstanding direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining
any damage that requires more than cosmetic repair. [Also defined in FBC, B,
Section 202.]
   “FLOOD HAZARD AREA.” The greater of the following two areas: [Also defined
in FBC, B, Section 202.]
      (1)   The area within a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any year.
      (2)   The area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” The official map of the community on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. [Also
defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).” The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency that contains the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map (if applicable), the water surface elevations
of the base flood, and supporting technical data. [Also defined in FBC, B,
Section 202.]
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The office or position designated and charged
with the administration and enforcement of this chapter (may be referred to as
the Floodplain Manager).
   “FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT OR APPROVAL.” An official document or
certificate issued by the community, or other evidence of approval or
concurrence, which authorizes performance of specific development activities
that are located in flood hazard areas and that are determined to be compliant
with this chapter.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other riverine watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
[Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS.” An engineering analysis of the impact that
a proposed encroachment into a floodway is expected to have on the floodway
boundaries and base flood elevations. The evaluation shall be prepared by a
qualified Florida licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and
models.
   “FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.” The family of codes adopted by the Florida Building
Commission, including: Florida Building Code, Building; Florida Building Code,
Residential; Florida Building Code, Existing Building; Florida Building Code,
Mechanical; Florida Building Code, Plumbing; Florida Building Code, Fuel Gas.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.” A use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water,
including only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities. The term does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls or foundation of a
structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is determined eligible for the
exception to the flood hazard area requirements of the Florida Building Code,
Existing Building, Chapter 12 Historic Buildings.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance
study. Letters of map change includes:
      (1)   “LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” An amendment based on technical
data showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special
flood hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map
and establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure
is not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).” A determination
that a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the base
flood elevation and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood
hazard area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill must have
been permitted and placed in accordance with the community's floodplain
management regulations.
      (4)   “CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).” A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance study. Upon submission
and approval of certified as-built documentation, a letter of map revision may
be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
   “LIGHT-DUTY TRUCK.” As defined in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2, any motor vehicle
rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular weight rating or less which has a
vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle
frontal area of 45 square feet or less, which is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle; or
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area of a building
or structure, including basement, but excluding any unfinished or flood-
resistant enclosure, other than a basement, usable solely for vehicle parking,
building access or limited storage provided that such enclosure is not built so
as to render the structure in violation of the non-elevation requirements of
the Florida Building Code or ASCE 24. [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is eight feet or more in width and greater than 400 square feet, and
which is built on a permanent, integral chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "MANUFACTURED HOME" does not include a "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE" or "PARK
TRAILER." [Also defined in 15C-1.0101, F.A.C.]
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MARKET VALUE.” The price at which a property will change hands between a
willing buyer and a willing seller, neither party being under compulsion to buy
or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts. As used in this
chapter the term refers to the market value of buildings and structures,
excluding the land and other improvements on the parcel. Market value may be
established by a qualified independent appraiser, actual cash value
(replacement cost depreciated for age and quality of construction), or tax
assessment value adjusted to approximate market value by a factor provided by
the property appraiser.
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” For the purposes of administration of this chapter and
the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code,
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after March
18, 1980 and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after March 18,
1980.
   “PARK TRAILER.” A transportable unit which has a body width not exceeding 14
feet and which is built on a single chassis and is designed to provide seasonal
or temporary living quarters when connected to utilities necessary for
operation of installed fixtures and appliances. [Defined in F.S. § 320.01]
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle, including a park trailer, which is: [See
F.S. § 320.01]
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.” An area in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are
shown on FIRMs as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, V1-V30, VE or V. [Also
defined in FBC, B Section 202.]
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” The date of issuance for new construction and
substantial improvements to existing structures, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement is within 180 days of the date of the issuance. The actual
“start of construction” means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns. Permanent construction does not include land preparation (such as
clearing, grading, or filling), the installation of streets or walkways,
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, the erection of
temporary forms or the installation of accessory buildings such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main buildings. For a
substantial improvement, the actual “start of construction” means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
[Also defined in FBC, B Section 202.]
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.” Damage of any origin sustained by a building or
structure whereby the cost of restoring the building or structure to its
before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 40% of the market value of the
building or structure before the damage occurred. [Also defined in FBC, B
Section 202.]
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, alteration, addition or other improvement of a building or
structure taking place during a ten-year period, the cumulative cost of which
equals or exceeds 40% of the market value of the structure before the
improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the ten-year
period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that building
or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the structure
has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either: [Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.]
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   “VARIANCE.” A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, or the
flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code, which
permits construction in a manner that would not otherwise be permitted by this
chapter or the Florida Building Code.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A river, creek, stream, channel or other topographic feature
in, on, through, or over which water flows at least periodically.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584,
passed 4-5-18)
FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.35 BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Design and construction of buildings, structures and facilities exempt from
the Florida Building Code. Pursuant to §
152.04(C) of this chapter, buildings, structures, and facilities that are
exempt from the Florida Building Code, including substantial improvement or
repair of substantial damage of such buildings, structures and facilities,
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the flood load and flood
resistant construction requirements of ASCE 24. Structures exempt from the
Florida Building Code that are not walled and roofed buildings shall comply
with the requirements of §
152.41 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.36 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Subdivision proposals, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall be reviewed to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (B)   Subdivision plats. Where any portion of proposed subdivisions,
including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, lies within a flood hazard
area, the following shall be required:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zones, and design flood elevations, as appropriate, shall be shown on
preliminary plats and final plats;
      (2)   Where the subdivision has more than 50 lots or is larger than five
acres and base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM, the base flood
elevations determined in accordance with §
152.05(B)(1) of this chapter; and
      (3)   Compliance with the site improvement and utilities requirements of
§
152.37 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.37 SITE IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. All proposed new development shall be reviewed
to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (B)   Sanitary sewage facilities. All new and replacement sanitary sewage
facilities, private sewage treatment plants (including all pumping stations and
collector systems), and on-site waste disposal systems shall be designed in
accordance with the standards for on-site sewage treatment and disposal systems
in Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C. and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the facilities and discharge from the
facilities into flood waters, and impairment of the facilities and systems.
   (C)   Water supply facilities. All new and replacement water supply
facilities shall be designed in accordance with the water well construction
standards in Chapter 62-532.500, F.A.C. and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (D)   Limitations on sites in regulatory floodways. No development,
including but not limited to site improvements, and land disturbing activity
involving fill or regrading shall be authorized in the regulatory floodway
unless the floodway encroachment analysis required in §
152.05(C)(1) of this chapter demonstrates that the proposed development or land
disturbing activity will not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
   (E)   Limitations on placement of fill. Subject to the limitations of this
chapter, fill shall be designed to be stable under conditions of flooding
including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwaters, prolonged inundation,
and protection against flood-related erosion and scour. In addition to these
requirements, if intended to support buildings and structures (Zone A only),
fill shall comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.38 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   General. All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas shall
be installed by an installer that is licensed pursuant to F.S. § 320.8249, and
shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 15C-1, F.A.C. and the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Foundations. All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured
homes installed in flood hazard areas shall be installed on permanent,
reinforced foundations that are designed in accordance with the foundation
requirements of the Florida Building Code Residential Section R322.2 and this
chapter. Foundations for manufactured homes subject to Section 304.6 of this
ordinance are permitted to be reinforced piers or other foundation elements of
at least equivalent strength.
   (C)   Anchoring. All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured
homes shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
damage and shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This anchoring requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for wind resistance.
   (D)   Elevation. Manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or
substantially improved shall comply with §
152.38(D)(1) or (2) of this chapter, as applicable.
      (1)   General elevation requirement. Unless subject to the requirements
of §
152.38(D)(2) below of this chapter, all manufactured homes that are placed,
replaced, or substantially improved on sites located:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision upon which
a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood,
shall be elevated such that the bottom of the frame is at or above the
elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida
Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A).
      (2)   Elevation requirement for certain existing manufactured home parks
and subdivisions. Manufactured homes that are not subject to §
152.38(D)(1) of this chapter, including manufactured homes that are placed,
replaced, or substantially improved on sites located in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, unless on a site where substantial
damage as result of flooding has occurred, shall be elevated such that either
the:
         (a)   Bottom of the frame of the manufactured home is at or above the
elevation required in the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2
(Zone A); or
         (b)   The lowest floor is at or above the base flood elevation plus
1.5 feet.
   (E)   Enclosures. Enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes shall
comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential Section
R322.2 for such enclosed areas.
   (F)   Utility equipment. Utility equipment that serves manufactured homes,
including electric, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities, shall comply with the requirements of
the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584,
passed 4-5-18; Am. Ord. 1699, passed 3-7-24)
§ 152.39 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND PARK TRAILERS.
   (A)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles and park trailers placed
temporarily in flood hazard areas shall:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which means the
recreational vehicle or park model is on wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanent attachments such as additions, rooms, stairs, decks and
porches.
   (B)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles and park trailers that do
not meet the limitations in §
152.39(A) of this chapter for temporary placement shall meet the requirements
of §
152.38 of this chapter for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.40 TANKS.
   (A)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty.
   (B)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not meet
the elevation requirements of §
152.40(C) of this chapter shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the
tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads
during conditions of the design flood, including the effects of buoyancy
assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris.
   (C)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas
shall be attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a
supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting structures
shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area.
   (D)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents
shall be:
      (1)   At or above the design flood elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
      (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14)
§ 152.41 OTHER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   General requirements for other development. All development, including
man-made changes to improved or unimproved real estate for which specific
provisions are not specified in this chapter or the Florida Building Code,
shall:
      (1)   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   Meet the limitations of §
152.37(D) of this chapter if located in a regulated floodway;
      (3)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood;
      (4)   Be constructed of flood damage-resistant materials;
      (5)   Have a minimum finished floor elevation 1.5 feet above the base
flood elevation; and
      (6)   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the design
flood elevation or meet the requirements of ASCE 24, except that minimum
electric service required to address life safety and electric code requirements
is permitted below the design flood elevation provided it conforms to the
provisions of the electrical part of building code for wet locations.
   (B)   Fences in regulated floodways. Fences in regulated floodways that have
the potential to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and
wire mesh fences, shall meet the limitations of §
152.37(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways.
Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of fill
in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
152.37(D) of this chapter.
   (D)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways. Roads and
watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water crossings
and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side of a
watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways shall
meet the limitations of §
152.37(D)of this chapter. Alteration of a watercourse that is part of a road or
watercourse crossing shall meet the requirements of §
152.05(C)(3) of this chapter.
(Ord. 1465, passed 5-17-12; Am. Ord. 1521, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 1584,
passed 4-5-18)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Authorization; application
   
153.02   Compliance required
   
153.03   Location
   
153.04   Blocking and tie-down standards
   
153.05   Ground anchor standards
   
153.06   Electrical requirements
   
153.07   Plumbing standards
   
153.08   Setbacks
   
153.09   Parking spaces
   
153.10   Enforcement
   
153.11   Exceptions
   
153.12   Notice of violation
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Minimum blocking and tie-down standards
§ 153.01 AUTHORIZATION; APPLICATION.
   This chapter is enacted under the home rule power of the city for the
purpose of providing necessary standards and regulations for trailer tie-downs
in the city in the interest of the citizens, residents, and inhabitants of the
city. This chapter will apply to and be enforced within all areas of the city.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
§ 153.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All mobile home or travel trailers which are to be used as residences in the
city shall, within 120 days of February 20, 1975 comply with the minimum
blocking, tie-down, electrical, plumbing, set-back, and parking standards set
forth in this chapter and the accompanying appendix. This chapter shall not
apply to self-motorized travel trailer units, collapsible camper units, units
less than 25 feet in length, and travel trailers that are not to be in the city
more than 15 days from the date of entering the city. Any travel trailer other
than self-motorized units, collapsible camper units, and units less than 25
feet in length which is not to be in the city more than 15 days from the date
of entering the city, shall however, be removed from the city if a hurricane
watch is declared for the city. In cases where the above 120-day time
limitation would work an undue hardship, and where the affected party requests
in writing an extension of the period, setting forth good cause for the
extension, he may be granted not more than an additional 60 days within which
to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   All automobile trailers occupied by human beings for living quarters
in the city shall be parked in a regularly licensed trailer park or areas
appropriately zoned for trailers. Automobile trailers may be parked elsewhere
for a period of not longer than three weeks if the owner or party desiring to
occupy it obtains from the City Council a permit for three weeks' parking.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74)
   (B)   No mobile home or travel trailer may be placed in a residential or
commercially zoned area. However, mobile homes or travel trailers may be placed
in a commercially zoned area where there exists a dealership established for
the primary purpose of selling mobile homes or travel trailers at retail.
   (C)   Mobile homes or travel trailers may be placed in an agricultural zoned
area, provided the parcel of property it is placed on is equal to or exceeds
ten acres in size and provided that mobile home or travel trailer is used
exclusively for related agricultural purposes.
   (D)   Mobile homes or travel trailers may be placed in a district zoned for
their use and classified as RM-2 or any other designation established by the
City Council. All mobile homes and travel trailers located in residential,
commercial, or agricultural zoning classifications as of August, 1973 are
considered nonconforming uses, and once removed from their present location,
must comply with divisions (B) and (C) above. All mobile homes and travel
trailers currently existing within the city must comply with all other sections
of this chapter. Mobile homes or travel trailers, to be used temporarily as an
office on any construction site may be placed there for the duration of the
construction period and must be removed immediately upon the completion of
construction.
   (E)   No person, firm, partnership, or corporation, including, but not
limited to mobile home dealers or travel trailer dealers or movers, responsible
for the relocation or installation of any mobile home or travel trailer subject
to this chapter, shall relocate or install any mobile home or travel trailer
until the person has obtained from the Building and Zoning Department of the
city a written statement or permit indicating that the location where the
mobile home or travel trailer is to be placed is properly zoned or permitted
for a mobile home or travel trailer.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A) and (B)
§ 153.04 BLOCKING AND TIE-DOWN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All blocking and tie-down standards must be installed and comply with
the Division of Motor Vehicles Regulation Chapter 15C-1.10, as it now exists or
as it may be renumbered or amended, which is hereby adopted as the minimum
blocking and tie-down standards of the city, and is set out in full in the
appendix following this chapter.
   (B)   All mobile homes or travel trailers in a RM-2 or other zoning
designation as approved by the City Council from time to time, must have a
four-inch concrete slab under the entire mobile home.
   (C)   All mobile homes and travel trailers must be permanently skirted to
prevent weed and trash accumulations.
   (D)   Each mobile home or travel trailer shall be provided with a minimum of
three sets of tie-downs as described herein.
      (1)   Ties shall be made of no less than 1-1/4 inch by 35/1000-inch
galvanized steel turnbuckles connected to ground anchors, with no less than 3/
8-inch galvanized wire rope, 1/4-inch aircraft cable, or equal, in good
condition and without weakening defects. The first over-the-roof and frame tie
points must be within 24 inches or at the first stud and truss from each end.
There shall be no less than one tie-down for each 12 feet of trailer length, up
to 60 feet in length, with a minimum of three regardless of length. All
trailers or mobile homes exceeding 60 feet in length shall have a minimum of
seven tie-downs per side. Where, due to the passage of time or wear and use,
any tie or wire rope component becomes defective, it shall be replaced within
ten days of discovery of the defect.
      (2)   No less than three of the required tie-downs shall pass over the
trailer or mobile home. If only three are used, two of these will be at the
front and rear of the unit. Tie-downs passing over the coach shall be
reinforced at points of contact with the unit so that the cable cannot cause
cutting damage thereto. Other required tie-downs may be fastened to the frame
of the unit.
      (3)   All frame tie-downs shall be secured to the main steel beam that
runs the length of the home.
      (4)   Double-wides shall have frame ties installed within 24 inches of
each end and at intervals.
      (5)   The following are permitted exceptions.
         (a)   Mobile homes having a permanent type structure adequate to
provide structural rigidity and stability, meeting the design loads for
hurricane zones as specified in the ANSI A119.l standards, of 25 pounds
horizontal and 15 pounds uplift, or which meet local building codes, and extend
a minimum of two-thirds of the length of the mobile home to which it is
attached, shall be deemed to have complied with the tie-down standards.
         (b)   Mobile homes of a model year prior to 1971 may be exempt from
over-the-roof ties, except for a minimum of one at each end of the mobile home.
Frame ties shall be provided as per regulations.
         (c)   Mobile homes having a concrete slab, the top of which is
vertically within 12 inches or less of the bottom of the floor of the mobile
home, and where the bottom of the floor is within 16 inches or less off the
ground, will be exempt from having a frame tie, or ties, installed in this area
only. The end frame ties however, shall not be exempt.
   (E)   The Division of Motor Vehicles Regulations Chapter 15C-1.10 as it now
exists or as it may be amended or renumbered is adopted as the minimum blocking
anchor and tie-down standards of the city and is set out in full in the
appendix following this chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.05 GROUND ANCHOR STANDARDS.
   Anchors shall be installed on both sides of the unit for every 12 feet of
trailer length. There shall be minimum of three, regardless of length, with the
further requirement that one set be on each end. Anchors shall be of the screw
auger type or of the deadman type. If screw augers are used, they shall be of
no less than 5/8-inch hot dipped galvanized steel. Auger penetration shall be
to a depth of no less than three feet with a welded eye on one end and no less
than a four-inch auger cup on the other. If a deadman-type anchor is used, it
shall be of poured-in-place concrete, no less than eight inches in diameter and
a depth of no less than two feet in rock or four feet in soil. In this deadman
there shall be cast to a minimum depth of 24 inches a 5/8-inch hot galvanized
steel rod with a welded eye. Any of the patented or expansion-type bolts with a
minimum of 5/8-inch diameter and inserted in solid rock formation to a minimum
depth of 12 inches may be used for ground anchors. All anchors shall be capable
of withstanding a vertical stress component of 4,750 pounds minimum in medium
density soil.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.06 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile homes and travel trailers must have an approved meter base and
service of sufficient amperage to meet the requirements of the mobile home or
travel trailer, and must conform to the National Electrical Code as adopted by
the city.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.07 PLUMBING STANDARDS.
   All plumbing must conform to the Southern Plumbing Code as adopted by the
city and also as required by the state pollution control standards.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.08 SETBACKS.
   Mobile homes and travel trailers may not be within 100 feet of any property
line in an agriculturally zoned area. Mobile homes or travel trailers in an RM-
2 zoning classification cannot be placed within 25 feet of the front property
line, within ten feet of the side property lines, or within 15 feet of the rear
property line.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.09 PARKING SPACES.
   There shall be a minimum of two parking spaces per mobile home or trailer
with a minimum area for each space of nine feet by 20 feet.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall rest with the
Building and Zoning Department. The City Council may from time to time, by
resolution, establish inspection fees necessary to defray the costs of the
enforcement and inspection.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
§ 153.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   Other than those types and methods specified herein, types of piers and
methods of blocking, ground anchors or tie-downs, and cables or couplings may
be approved by the Building and Zoning Department if deemed the equivalent of
the foregoing specifications, and specific written approval is given by the
Building and Zoning Department. This section shall especially apply, but not be
limited to, those situations where any permanent cabana, addition, or adjoining
structure would create an undue hardship were the provisions of this chapter
literally applied. In those cases, the hardship exception of this section shall
be liberally construed.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
§ 153.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Building and Zoning Department shall provide written notice to anyone in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, specifying the nature of the
violation and necessary corrective action. A period of ten days shall be
granted for correction, and the person or persons correcting the violation
shall sign a citation certifying the correction. If violations are not
corrected within the specified time, the violator shall be guilty of a
punishable violation.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99 (A)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided, shall upon conviction, be punished by a $50 per day
fine. Each day a violation shall occur or continue shall be considered a
separate offense and punishable accordingly, up to a maximum of $500. Upon
recommendation by the Building and Zoning Department, the City Council may
bring suit to restrain, enjoin, or otherwise prevent the violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-20-75)
   (B)   Whoever violates §
153.03 (A) shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both. Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 8, passed 5-13-74)
APPENDIX: MINIMUM BLOCKING AND TIE-DOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
1.   Minimum blocking standards
   
2.   Anchor specifications
   
3.   Tie-down specifications
   
4.   Permitted exceptions
§ 1 MINIMUM BLOCKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Pier foundations shall be installed directly under the main frame or
chassis of the mobile home. The piers shall not be further apart than ten feet
on centers, and the main frame, front or back, shall not extend further than
two feet beyond the center line of the end of the piers.
   (B)   All grass and organic material shall be removed and the pier
foundation placed on stable soil. The pier foundation shall be a 16-inch by 16-
inch by 4-inch solid concrete pad, precast or poured in place, or the
equivalent.
   (C)   Piers must be constructed of regular eight-inch by eight-inch by 16-
inch concrete blocks, open cells, solid, or the equivalent (with open cells
vertical), placed above the foundation. A two-inch by eight-inch by 16-inch
pressure-treated wood plate, or the equivalent, shall be placed on top of the
pier with shims fitted and driven tight from both sides of the I-Beam, between
the wood plate and the main frame. Shims shall not occupy more than one inch of
vertical space. Single tiered block piers shall be installed perpendicular to
the main I-Beam. (See Figure I)
   (D)   All piers over 40 inches in height shall be double-tiered with blocks
interlocked and capped with a four-inch by 16-inch by 16-inch solid concrete
block, or the equivalent, and cushioned with wood shims or a pressure-treated
plate. (See Figures II and III)
   (E)   All corner piers over three blocks high shall be double-tiered, with
blocks interlocked, and capped with a four-inch by 16-inch by 16-inch solid
concrete block, or equivalent, and cushioned with wood shims or a pressure-
treated plate.
[See hard copy of the Code for Figures I, II, III, and IV.]
§ 2 ANCHOR SPECIFICATIONS.
   To secure approval of their products, such as anchors, components, and the
like, each anchor manufacturer must submit to the State Department of Highway
Safety and Motor Vehicles, Division of Motor Vehicles, the following data.
   (A)   Detailed drawings of each type of anchor submitted for approval. Each
model shall show model identification, all dimensions, type welds or fastening,
type of steel or material, and method of securing strap. Each drawing shall
bear the seal of an engineer registered in the state of the anchor
manufacturer, or the State of Florida.
   (B)   Each model must be tested and certified to destruction by a recognized
independent testing laboratory in the state. The report shall show the point of
failure and the force required. The force shall be at least 7,125 pounds.
   (C)   Each anchor model shall be tested with strap or cable, connected to
the anchor head connecting device. Failure shall not be less than 4,750 pounds.
   (D)   Each model must be field tested and certified for holding power by an
independent testing laboratory recognized by the state. All field tests shall
be conducted in the state. The lab report shall show the following.
      (1)   Model tested as described by engineering drawings.
      (2)   Method of installation.
      (3)   Date of installation.
      (4)   Date of pull-out test.
      (5)   Soil profile description.
      (6)   Location of field test.
      (7)   Test equipment used.
      (8)   Pounds of force exerted and resultant uplift in inches of anchor.
Holding power shall be tested to be at least 4,750 pounds in medium density
soil.
      (9)   Failure point of anchor.
   (E)   Should any change in construction or material be made in a model,
approval of that model is withdrawn. The revised model must be completely
resubmitted for approval as previously outlined.
   (F)   The anchor manufacturer shall furnish and ship with each anchor,
information as to what types of soil the anchor has been tested and certified
to be installed in, and instructions as to the method of installation of
anchors and components.
   (G)   Model numbers shall be permanently marked on the head or top of each
anchor, so that it is readily visible after installation of the anchor. Also,
all components must be clearly marked.
§ 3 TIE-DOWN SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in this section, the tie-down
specifications are as follows.
      (1)   Ties and anchors.
 
                                 (Excluding hitch)
                                 Nominal length of mobile home
                                 Up to 40 feet 41 feet to 60 61 feet and up
                                               feet
Single-wide MH Frame ties per    3             5             7
               side
Single-wide MH Over-the-roof     3             3             3
               ties per side
Single-wide MH Number of anchors 3             5             7
               per side
Double-wide MH Frames ties only  3             5             7
 
      (2)   Tie-down straps. All tie-down straps shall be 1-1/4 inch by 35/1000
inch galvanized (.30 ounces per square feet) steel strap conforming to federal
specification QQ-S-781f, Type 1, Class B, Grade 1 or the equivalent.
      (3)   Single-wide mobile homes. The first over-the-roof and frame tie
point must be within 24 inches or the first stud and truss from each end. All
other over-the-roof and frame ties shall be as equally spaced as is feasible.
All frame ties shall be secured to the main steel beam that runs the length of
the home.
      (4)   Double-wide mobile homes. Double-wides shall have frame ties
installed within 24 inches of each end and at intervals as described on the
preceding chart in (A)(1) above.
   (B)   These specifications are minimum standards set by the Department of
Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, and are not to be construed by the
certifying engineer for the mobile home manufacturer, as meeting the American
National Standards Institute A119.l Standards Code. Mobile homes having built-
in over-the-roof straps have been certified as being in compliance with the
aforementioned code, and all designated tie points should be used.
§ 4 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile homes having a permanent type structure adequate to provide
structural rigidity and stability, meeting the design loads for hurricane zones
as specified in the ANSI A119.l standards, of 25 pounds horizontal and 15
pounds uplift, or which meet local building codes, and extend a minimum of two-
thirds of the length of the mobile home to which it is attached, shall be
deemed to have complied with the tie-down standards.
   (B)   Mobile homes of a model year prior to 1971 may be exempt from over-
the-roof ties, except for a minimum of one at each end of the mobile home.
Frame ties shall be provided as per regulations.
   (C)   Mobile homes having a concrete slab, the top of which is vertically
within 12 inches or less of the bottom of the floor of the mobile home, and
where the bottom of the floor is within 16 inches or less of the ground, will
be exempt from having a frame tie or ties, installed in this area only. The end
frame ties, however, shall not be exempt.
[See hard copy of the Code of figure.]
   (D)   Those mobile homes which are presently tied down in compliance with
the requirements of the insurance company insuring it, or the city or county
where the mobile homes are located, and have been approved by the insurer,
shall be deemed to have complied with the tie-down standards of the Department
of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles as set forth in this appendix. Upon
relocation of the mobile homes, however, the Department tie-down requirements
shall apply.
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions: Land Development Code
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Interpretation
   
154.03   Fees and charges
   
154.04   Penalties
   
154.05   Officers, employees of city not liable for failure to perform duties
   
154.06   Variances; exceptions; appeals
   
154.07   Enforcement
General Regulations: Zoning Code
   
154.09   Definitions
   
154.10   Nonconforming uses
   
154.11   Temporary structures
   
154.12   Lakes and lakefront property
   
154.13   Alcoholic beverage establishments
   
154.14   Location of accessory uses and structures in residential districts
   
154.15   Poles, towers, antennas, and wireless communication facilities
   
154.16   Setbacks for future road widening
   
154.17   Compliance with comprehensive plan
   
154.18   Parking of certain vehicles prohibited
   
154.19   Residential tennis court regulations
   
154.20   Retaining wall regulations
   
154.21   Temporary/seasonal uses and mobile food vendors
   
154.22   Outdoor lighting standards
   
154.23   Fences and walls
   
154.24    Collection bins
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Planning and Zoning Board
   
154.26   Establishment of official zoning map
   
154.27   Amendments to zoning regulations and map
   
154.28   Enforcement responsibility
   
154.29   Building permits required
   
154.30   Fees and charges
Establishment of Districts, Boundaries, and Restrictions
   
154.40   Establishment of districts
   
154.41   Statutory uses
   
154.42   Residential districts
   
154.43   Commercial districts
   
154.44   Industrial districts
   
154.45   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.46   Application of district regulations
   
154.47   Variances
District Regulations
   
154.55   A-1 Agriculture
   
154.56   R-CE Rural Country Estates
   
154.57   R-1AAA, R-1AA, R-1A, and R-1B Single-Family Dwelling
   
154.58   R-2 One- and Two-Family Dwelling
   
154.59   R-3 Multiple Family
   
154.60   RM Mobile Home Park
   
154.61   PUD Planned Unit Development
   
154.62   PO Professional Office
   
154.63   C-1 General Commercial
   
154.64   C-2 Commercial District
   
154.65   M-1A Office and Light Industrial
   
154.66   M-2A Industrial District
   
154.67   Downtown Centre Zoning District
   
154.68   School locational criteria
   
154.69   Government Use Zoning District
Conditional Use Regulations
   
154.70   Description
   
154.71   Procedure
   
154.72   Findings, conditions, and safeguards
   
154.73   Permit expiration
Home-Based Businesses
   
154.80   Definition
   
154.81   Conditions, limitations, and restrictions
   
154.82   Business tax receipt required
   
154.83   Expiration; nontransferability
Big Lake Mary Overlay Zoning District
   
154.90   Big Lake Mary Overlay Zoning District
Transfer of Development Rights
   
154.101   Intent
   
154.102   Density
   
154.103   Receiving site
   
154.104   Transfer of TDR units
   
154.105   TDR reservation process
   
154.106   Payment of TDR fees
   
154.107   Balance
Pain Management Clinics
   
154.120   Pill mills
   
154.121   Medical marijuana treatment center dispensing facilities
Outdoor Advertising
   
154.130   Restrictions
Affordable Housing
   
154.140   Affordable housing under the Live Local Act
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Editor's Note:
   Chapters
154 through
157 of this code of ordinances together constitute the city land development
code. Sections
154.01 through
154.07 are provisions applicable to all four chapters.
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this land development code is to establish standards,
procedures, and minimum requirements to regulate and control the platting of
lands and the development of real estate in the city, and to coordinate and
integrate the development review process of the city land use plan and the
city's platting process, in an effort to, among other things, ensure proper
legal description, identification, monumentation, and recording of real estate
boundaries; aid in the coordination of land development throughout the city in
accordance with the city's land use plan; discourage haphazard, premature,
uneconomic, or scattered land development; ensure safe and convenient traffic
control; encourage development of an economically stable and healthful
community; ensure adequate utilities; provide improved drainage and water
control facilities; provide open spaces for recreation; ensure land development
with installation of adequate and necessary physical improvements; ensure that
the citizens and taxpayers of the city will not have to bear the costs
resulting from the haphazard development of land; and ensure to the purchaser
of land within a subdivision that necessary improvements have been installed.
It is the intent of the city that, to the extent permitted by law all future
development orders and permits, both for new and existing projects, shall
comply with the requirements of this code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Provisions constitute minimum standards. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
   (B)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other rule, regulation, statute, or other
provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations, or
any other rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is
more restrictive, or imposes higher standards, shall control.
      (2)   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement, or restriction,
provided that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
   (C)   Codes or specifications. When reference is made in this code to
statutes, codes, specifications, or other regulations, it is intended that
subsequent amendments to those codes, statutes, specifications, or regulations
will be automatically adopted by reference herein except as provided by
subsequent ordinances of the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.03 FEES AND CHARGES.
   Any fees or charges established by the city pursuant to the regulations or
requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by resolution
of the City Commission, and these changes shall not be considered an amendment
to this code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.04 PENALTIES.
   (A)   General. Any person, whether as owner, lessee, principal, agent,
employee, or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this code, or
permits any violation to continue, or otherwise fails to comply with the
requirements of this code or of any plan or statement submitted and approved
under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a violation and subject
to prosecution. Upon conviction, the person shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. At the option of the city, any violation may
be processed through the city's Code Enforcement Board as an alternative to
prosecution under this section.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. In addition to any penalty provided by law for the
violation of any of the provisions of this code, the City Commission may bring
suit in the appropriate circuit court to enjoin, restrain, or otherwise prevent
the violation of any of the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Cross-reference:
   Additional enumeration of violations and penalties, see §
154.07(C)
§ 154.05 OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES OF CITY NOT LIABLE FOR FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   No provision of this code designating the duty of any city officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make that officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty for failure to perform that duty, unless the intention of
the City Commission to impose a fine or penalty is specifically and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.06 VARIANCES; EXCEPTIONS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Variances. Variances to
Chapter 154: Zoning Code, will be in accordance with the powers granted to the
Planning and Zoning Board. The City Commission may grant a variance from the
terms of other sections when the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest, and where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of that section would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance
shall not be granted if it has the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose
of the regulations provided in that section. Furthermore, a variance shall not
be granted by the City Commission unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for the variance is submitted to the
appropriate board demonstrating the following:
         (a)   A special condition and circumstance exists which is peculiar to
the land, structures, or required subdivision improvements involved, and which
is not applicable to other lands, structures, or required subdivision
improvements.
         (b)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of the section would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties with
similar conditions.
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         (d)   The granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the provisions of the section
to other lands, structures, or required subdivision improvements under similar
conditions. No pre-existing conditions on neighboring lands which are contrary
to the provisions of the section shall be considered grounds for the issuance
of variances.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall make findings that the
requirements of this section have been met.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall further make a finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance that
would make possible the reasonable use of the land, buildings, and other
improvements.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall also make a finding that the
granting of the variance would be in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this section, will not be injurious to the surrounding territory, or
otherwise be detrimental to the public.
      (5)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit its findings and
recommendations to the City Commission for action. The City Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the request for a variance after due public notice as
provided in §
154.09 and written notice to adjacent property owners. In granting any
variance, the City Commission may prescribe appropriate conditions and
safeguards in conformity with this section. Violation of these conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. The standards and requirements set forth in this section
may be modified by the City Commission in the case of a plan and program for a
new town, a complete community, or a planned unit development which, in the
judgment of the City Commission, provides adequate public or private spaces and
improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air, and service needs of
the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also provides those
covenants or other legal provisions which will assure conformity to and
implementation of the plan. In granting a modification, the City Commission
shall require any reasonable conditions and safeguards as will secure
substantially the objective and standards of this code.
   (C)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by the City Commission's decision
regarding a preliminary or final subdivision plan or plat, or the City
Commission's decision regarding any variance, may file a petition for a writ of
certiorari in the circuit court of the county to review the final action as
provided by the state appellate rules. The petition shall be presented to the
court within 30 days after the date of the final action of the City Commission.
   (D)   Variances - downtown development district.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the City Commission, strict application of
the Land Development Regulations would prevent the development of a non-
residential site within the Downtown Business District as defined in the
Comprehensive Plan, the City Commission may grant said variances provided the
granting of these variances will not compromise the health, safety and general
welfare of the public.
      (2)   The City Commission may only approve the minimum number of
variances needed to make the site developable.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 345, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 434, passed
6-1-89; Am. Ord. 586, passed 1-16-92; Am. Ord. 597, passed 4-2-92; Am. Ord.
1505, passed 5-1-14)
§ 154.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General. No site plan or subdivision development, except those granted
exceptions and variances as provided in §
154.06 shall be approved, platted, or recorded, nor shall any building permit
or certificate of occupancy be issued, unless the subdivision development meets
all the requirements of Chapters
155 and
156, and has been approved in accordance with the requirements provided in
those chapters.
   (B)   Performance bond guaranteeing required public improvements. The City
Commission may enforce the performance bond guaranteeing public improvements by
resorting to legal and equitable remedies if required improvements have not
been satisfactorily installed within the time allowed by the city after the
site plan or final plat is approved, unless extended by the City Commission and
provided the surety consents to the extension.
   (C)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this land development code for any
person to construct, open, modify, or dedicate any street, commercial driveway,
sanitary sewer, water main, or drainage structure without first having obtained
site plan approval and otherwise having complied with the provisions of the
site plan regulations,
Chapter 156. It shall also be a violation of this code for any person to plat,
construct, open, or dedicate any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
main, or drainage structure, without having first complied with the provisions
of the subdivision regulations,
Chapter 155; or to otherwise violate any provision of these regulations.
      (2)   Any person, whether as owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee,
or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this code, or permits any
violation to continue, or fails to comply with the requirements of any plan or
statement submitted and approved under the provisions of this code, shall be
guilty of a code violation and subject to prosecution. Each day a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (3)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from taking any
lawful action, including, but not limited to, equitable action, as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation of the rules, conditions, covenants,
stipulations, or terms of these regulations.
   (D)   Issuance of building permits. No building shall be erected on a lot or
parcel of land subject to regulations, nor shall any building permit be issued
therefor, unless one of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The lot or parcel is within a subdivision for which a final plat
has been approved by the City Commission, and the required subdivision
improvements have been installed and accepted by the city. However, buildings
may be erected concurrently with the construction of the required improvements
if a performance bond acceptable to the city has been posted by the developer.
If there is no bond for subdivision improvements, the final inspection of the
buildings shall not be approved and the buildings shall not be permitted or
occupied until all the required subdivision improvements have been completed
and have been certified as complete by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The lot or parcel abuts a public street dedicated to and accepted
by the city, or the street is shown on a legally recorded subdivision plat, or
unless a waiver has been obtained from the city. However, building permits may
be refused if water management, soil characteristics, or other standards are
not met.
   (E)   All private subdivisions will follow the same procedure as any
subdivision, and shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Board and City
Commission. Paving, traffic controls, and striping requirements must be met and
paid for by the developer.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1642, passed 6-17-21)
Cross-reference:
   General penalty and prerogative of injunctive relief, see §
154.04
GENERAL REGULATIONS: ZONING CODE
§ 154.09 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below or in the specific section in which they
appear, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted to have the
same meaning they have in common usage, so as to give this chapter its most
reasonable application.
   "ABUTTING PROPERTY." Any property that is immediately adjacent to or
contiguous with property that may be subject to any hearing required to be held
under these regulations, or that is located immediately across any road or
public right-of-way from the property subject to any hearing under these
regulations.
   "ACCESS." The provisions for approach and entrance to a site, building, or
structure from a public or private way.
   "ACCESSORY USE." See "USE ACCESSORY."
   "ACLF (ADULT CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY." Any institution, building or
buildings, residence, private home, boarding home, home for the aged, or other
place, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its
ownership or management to provide, for a period exceeding 24 hours, one or
more personal services for four or more adults, not related to the owner or
administrator by blood or marriage, who require such services. Personal
services, for the purpose of this definition, means services in addition to
housing and food service, which include, but are not limited to, personal
assistance with bathing, dressing, ambulation, housekeeping, supervision,
emotional security, and any other related service. Personal service does not
include medical services, that use being licensed by the state.
   "ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION." The commencement and continuous uninterrupted
prosecution of construction pursuant to a permit, which in- cludes the
permanent placement and fastening of materials to the land or structure for
which the permit has been issued. Where demolition, excavation, or removal of
an existing structure has been substantially begun preparatory to new
construction, that work shall be deemed actual construction, provided that work
shall be continuously carried on until the completion of the new construction
involved. Fill and installation of drainage facilities shall be considered a
part of construction. Actual construction shall include only work begun under a
valid building permit.
   "ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED." As used in F.S. § 166.04151, approval by the
Adminis-trative Official after input from the Development Review Committee, in
accordance with the land development code and the comprehensive plan. An
affected person may appeal an administratively approved decision by the
Administrative Official to the Planning and Zoning Board as provided in §
154.25 (H)(3).
   “ADULT BOOKSTORE.”
      (1)   An establishment which advertises, sells or rents, or offers for
sale or rent adult material as defined in
Chapter 115 of this code.
      (2)   The provisions of division (1) of this definition are not intended
to apply and it is an affirmative defense to an alleged violation of this code
regarding operating an adult bookstore without an adult entertainment license
if the alleged violator shows that at the establishment:
         (a)   Admission is not restricted to adults only,
         (b)   All adult material is accessible only by employees,
         (c)   The gross income from the sale and/or rental of adult material
comprises less than 10% of the gross income from the sale and rental of goods
or services of the establishment, and
         (d)   The individual items of adult material offered for sale and/or
rental comprise less than 10% of the total individual new items publicly
displayed as stock in trade in any of the following categories: Books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video tapes, slides, or other visual representations and recordings,
or other audio matter or less than 10% of the individual used items publicly
displayed at the establishment as stock in trade in the same categories set out
above.
   “ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.” An adult theater, and adult bookstore,
or an adult performance establishment operated for commercial or pecuniary
gain, regardless of whether such establishment is licensed under this code.
“Operated for pecuniary gain” shall not depend upon actual profit or loss. An
establishment which has an occupational license shall be presumed to be
“operated for pecuniary gain.” An establishment with an adult entertainment
license shall be presumed to be an adult entertainment establishment.
   “ADULT MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.”
      (1)   Any establishment or portion thereof, where superficial tissues of
one person are manipulated, rubbed, stroked, kneaded, and/or tapped by a second
person, whether or not the manipulation is aided by any electrical or
mechanical or other service, with or without chemical preparation, accompanied
by the display or exposure of specified anatomical areas as defined in
Chapter 115 of this code. Such establishments shall not include the following:
         (a)   Licensed health care facility;
         (b)   Licensed physicians or nurses engaged in the practice of their
professions;
         (c)   Educational or athletic facilities, if the massage is a normal
and usual practice in such facilities; or
         (d)   Establishments exempted under F.S. § 480.034, or any successor
thereto, provided that all employees of said establishments who manipulate the
superficial tissues of the body of another person are licensed under F.S.
Chapter 480.
      (2)   The term “ADULT MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT” is included within and
supplements the definition of adult performance establishments.
   “ADULT MOTEL.” Any motel, hotel, boardinghouse, roominghouse, or other place
of temporary lodging which includes the word “adult” in any name it uses or
otherwise advertises the presentation of films, motion pictures, videotapes,
slides, or other photographic reproductions, which have their primary or
dominant theme matters depicting, illustrating, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in
Chapter 115 of this code. The term “ADULT MOTEL” is included within the
definition of “adult theater.”
   “ADULT PERFORMANCE ESTABLISHMENT.”
      (1)   An establishment where any employee:
         (a)   Engages in a private performance or displays or exposes any
specified anatomical areas to a patron, regardless of whether the employee
actually engages in dancing;
         (b)   Wears any covering, tape, pastie, or other device which
simulates or otherwise gives the appearance of the display or exposure of any
specified anatomical areas, regardless of whether the employee actually engages
in dancing;
         (c)   Offers, solicits, or contracts to dance or perform with a patron
in consideration of any tip, remuneration, or compensation from or on behalf of
that person; or
         (d)   Dances or performs with or within three feet of a patron and
accepts any consideration, tip, remuneration, or compensation from or on behalf
of that person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that an establishment is not an adult
performance establishment if the establishment is a bona fide private club
whose membership as a whole engages in social nudism or naturalism as in a
nudist resort or camp or such other establishment in which the predominant
business or attraction of the establishment is not the offering to customers of
a product, service, or entertainment which is intended to provide sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, and the establishment is
not distinguished by an emphasis on or the advertising or promotion of
materials relating to or employees depicting, describing, displaying, exposing,
or simulating specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
defined in
Chapter 115 of this code.
      (3)   An adult performance establishment shall not be deemed a place
provided or set apart for the purpose of exposing or exhibiting a person’s
sexual organs in a manner contrary to the first sentence of F.S. § 800.03, the
state’s indecent exposure statute as set forth in the decision of the Supreme
Court of Florida in the case of Hoffman v. Carson, 250 So. 2d 891, 893 (Fla
1971), appeal dismissed 404 U.S. 981 (1971).
      (4)   To the degree not described by this definition of adult performance
establishment, an adult massage establishment, as herein defined, shall be
considered to be an adult performance establishment.
   “ADULT THEATER.” Any establishment which has adult booths (as defined by
Chapter 115 of this code) where adult material (as defined by
Chapter 115 of this code) may be viewed or an establishment which has as
auditorium, rooms, or an open- air area where persons may view films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
have as their primary or dominant theme matters depicting, illustrating, or
relating specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined
in
Chapter 115 of this code. Adult motels and adult booth or peep show arcades are
considered to be adult theaters.
   “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.” All beverages containing alcohol of more than 1% by
weight.
   “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT.” Any establishment wherein alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on premises and where the
semiannual average percentage of alcoholic beverage sales exceeds 49%; or any
establishment wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption
on premises which displays a sign that is visible from outside the
establishment that advertises alcoholic beverages. This includes bars/cocktail
lounges, beer gardens, and craft breweries, but does not include restaurants.
   “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENT-PACKAGE SALES.” Any establishment wherein
alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption off premises.
   “ALLEY.” A public or private way which is not designed for general travel
but is used primarily as a means of secondary access to a lot abutting thereon.
An “ALLEY” is not considered a street.
   “ALTER, ALTERATION.” Any change to a building, structure, or site,
including, but not limited to, access, size, floor area, height, shape,
occupancy, character, or use.
   “ANTECEDENT WATER ELEVATION.” The water elevation designated by the Army
Corps of Engineers as the beginning elevation in the computation of the 100-
year flood elevation of a given water body.
   “ANTENNA.” An arrangement of wires or metal rods used in transmitting or
receiving electromagnetic waves.
   “ANTENNA ARRAY.” A platform where antennas are mounted, which signal
transmission and reception to mobile devices within a specific area.
   “APPLICABLE CODES.” Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted bv a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes enacted solely to address threats of destruction of
property or injury to persons, and includes the National Electric Safety Code
and the 2017 edition of the Florida Department of Transportation Utility
Accommodation Manual.
      (1)   The term includes objective design standards adopted bv ordinance
that may require a new utility pole that replaces an existing utility pole to
be of substantially similar design, material, and color or that may require
reasonable spacing requirements concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment.
      (2)   The term includes objective design standards adopted bv ordinance
that may require a small wireless facility to meet reasonable location context,
color, stealth, and concealment requirements; however, such design standards
may be waived by the city upon a showing that the design standards are not
reasonably compatible for the particular location of a small wireless facility
or that the design standards impose an excessive expense. The waiver shall be
granted or denied within 45 days after the date of the request (F.S. § 337.401
(7)(r)).
   “ARTERIAL.” A street which provides a direct route for long, local trips and
also provides access to interstates, expressways, and freeways. The main
function of an arterial is to move large numbers of vehicles. Average daily
traffic is normally greater than 6,000 vehicles. Interstates, expressways, and
freeways can also be classified as arterial roads with greater capacities,
greater rights-of-way, and more limited access than other arterials.
   “ARTIFICIAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM.” Any canal, ditch, culvert, dike, storm sewer,
or other man-made facility which tends to control surface flow of water.
   “AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.” An establishment whose primary business is
limited to the retail sale of motor fuels, lubricants, coolants, and other
customary items. Uses permissible at an automotive service station do not
include major mechanical and body work, straightening of frames or body parts,
steam cleaning, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating
condition, operation of a commercial parking lot or commercial garage as an
accessory use, or other work involving undue noise, glare, fumes, smoke, or
other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in such
stations. An automotive station is not a repair garage, a body shop, a car
laundry, or a truck stop.
   “AUTOMOBILE WRECKING LOTS OR YARDS.” A lot or group of contiguous lots used
for the storage, dismantling, or wrecking of used automobiles not in running
condition, and the storage and sale of used automobile parts.
   “AWNING.” A roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building for
the purpose of shielding a doorway or window from the elements. An awning may
be made of fabric, canvas or aluminum type material and shall be constructed
separately from the main building and attached independently to the main
building.
   "BALCONY." A platform enclosed by a railing or parapet projecting from the
wall of a building for the private use of tenants or for exterior access to
above-grade living units.
   “BAR/COCKTAIL LOUNGE.” Any establishment wherein alcoholic beverages are
sold or dispensed for consumption on premises and where the semiannual average
percentage of alcoholic beverage sales exceeds 49%; or any establishment
wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on premises
which displays a sign that is visible from outside the establishment that
advertises alcoholic beverages; or any establishment wherein alcoholic
beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on premises, where private
recreational activities are available to the patrons of that establishment.
Such recreational uses include, but are not limited to, pool tables, dart
games, air hockey, dancing, live entertainment, television with a picture
screen in excess of 25 inches diagonally, motion pictures, karoake, and/or more
than two pinball machines or video machines per 100 seats allowed in the
establishment.
   “BEER GARDEN.”
      (1)   Any establishment wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed
for consumption on premises and where the semiannual average percentage of
alcoholic beverage sales exceeds 49%. There is typically no outward display of
window or wall signage that advertises alcoholic beverages. Food service shall
be provided from a restaurant or an outdoor licensed food service provider, as
defined herein, that is immediately adjacent to the beer garden. Food service
shall be provided via a fully integrated point-of-sale system, whereby
customers within the beer garden are able to order food or have it delivered
from the adjacent restaurant or outdoor licensed food service provider.
      (2)   Outdoor seating/activity space shall be provided that is a minimum
of 15% of the gross floor area of the indoor seating/bar space. Sidewalk space
required for ADA minimum calculations shall not be used in this calculation
(44-inch-wide, uninterrupted travel way). The outdoor space shall include
aesthetic improvements such as decorative fencing, string lights, and the like.
Outdoor games may also be included in this space. Smoking is typically not
permitted indoors by the business owner.
      (3)   An outdoor licensed food service provider shall be considered an
accessory use governed by §
154.21(C), except for the following: (C)(1), (5), (6)(a)-(c), (g), (h). Food
service provided by an outdoor licensed food service provider shall be limited
to the following days and hours: Thursday through Saturday, from 6:00 p.m. to
11:00 p.m., and Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. No more than one outdoor
licensed food service provider shall be permitted at a beer garden or craft
brewery.
   "BELT COURSE." A molding or projecting course or continuous row of stones,
tile, brick, and the like, running horizontally along the wall face of a
building.
   “BLOCK.” Includes tier or group, and means a group of lots existing within
well- defined and fixed boundaries, usually being an area surrounded by streets
or other physical barriers and having an assigned number, letter, or other name
through which it may be identified.
   “BORROW PIT.” Any operation which shall entail the excavation or removal of
earth in excess of 20 yards in a 12-month period from one parcel of property to
another parcel of property, or from one parcel of property to the same parcel
of property, where public roads shall be used.
   “BOTTLE CLUB.” A commercial establishment, operated for profit, whether or
not profit is actually made, wherein patrons consume alcoholic beverages which
are brought onto the premises and not sold or supplied to the patrons by the
establishment, whether the patrons bring in and maintain custody of their own
alcoholic beverages or surrender custody to the establishment for dispensing on
premises, and which is enclosed in a building or other enclosed permanent
structure. This definition does not apply to sporting facilities where events
sanctioned by nationally recognized regulatory athletic of sports associations
are held, bona fide restaurants licensed by the Division of Hotels and
Restaurants of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation whose
primary business is the service of full course meals, or hotels and motels
licensed by the Division of Hotels and Restaurants of the Department of
Business and Professional Regulation.
   “BREAK POINT.” The location on a communication tower of a designed feature
which, in the event of a tower failure, would result in the tower falling
entirely within the boundaries of the property on which it is located.
   “BUFFER.” A specified land area together with planting and landscaping
required on the land to visibly separate one use from another, or to shield or
block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
   “BUILDABLE AREA.” The portion of a lot remaining after required setback
yards have been provided. Buildings and accessory uses may be placed in any
part of the buildable area, but limitations on the percentage of the lot which
may be covered by buildings may require open space within the building area.
   “BUILDING.” Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls,
and intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or
chattel. The word “BUILDING” includes the word “STRUCTURE.”
   “BUILDING HEIGHT.” The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the highest exterior bearing wall. If there is no exterior bearing wall,
then the distance shall be measured from the grade to the highest point on the
highest exterior wall. Chimneys, cupolas, elevator bulkheads, atriums, and
similar roof-mounted structures may be erected above the established height
limits by no more than eight feet. Spires or bell towers shall be reviewed and
permitted under site plan review as a conditional use. For screening of
mechanical equipment, see §
157.06(C).
   "BUILDING MASS." The three-dimensional bulk of a building: height, width,
and depth.
   “BUILDING SETBACK” or “BUILDING LINE.” The line, established by law, beyond
which a building shall not extend, except as specifically provided by law; and
determined from the extreme support or the roof of the main structure or
appurtenance thereto.
   “CAMOUFLAGED COMMUNICATION TOWER.” A tower designed to unobtrusively blend
into the existing surroundings and be disguised so as to not have the
appearance of a communication tower. Such structures shall be considered
communication towers and not spires, belfries, cupolas, or other appurtenances
usually required to be placed above the roof level for purposes of applying
height limitations. It is recognized that due to their height, such structures
must be designed with sensitivity to elements such as building bulk, massing,
and architectural treatment of both the tower and surrounding development.
Camouflaged towers on developed property must be disguised to appear as either
a part of the structure housing the principal use or an accessory structure
that is normally associated with the principal use occupying the property.
Camouflaged towers developed on unimproved property must be disguised to blend
in with the existing vegetation. An example of a camouflaged communication
tower would be a tower that is constructed in the form and shape of a tree in
order to appear to be part of a forested area, or a tower constructed to appear
to be or to actually be a component of a bell or clock tower on sites with
existing industrial or institutional development, or to be or appear to be a
component of a church steeple on sites with existing churches.
   "CANOPY." A roof-like structure projecting from a building, and serving the
purpose of protecting pedestrians from rain and sun. The width of the structure
("WIDTH" being taken as the dimensions parallel to the face of the building) is
not greater than one-fourth the width of the face of the building or 20 feet,
whichever is less. The structure must be open on three sides and, if ground-
supported, supports must be confined in number, and the cross-section area must
be confined to the minimum necessary for actual support of the canopy.
   “CARPORT.” An accessory structure or portion of a principal structure,
consisting of a roof and supporting members such as columns or beams,
unenclosed from the ground to the roof on at least two sides, and designed or
used for the storage of motor- driven vehicles.
   “CEMETERY.” Property used for the interring of the deceased.
   “CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.” A discontinuance of an existing use and the
substitution therefor of a use of a different kind or class. Change of
occupancy is not intended to include a change of tenants or proprietors unless
accompanied by a change in the type of use.
   “CHILD CARE CENTER.” An establishment where three or more children, other
than members of the family occupying the premises, are cared for. The term
includes day nurseries, kindergartens, day care service, day care agency,
nursery school, or play school. The term does not include foster homes.
   “CITY.” The City of Lake Mary, Florida, or its governing body, the City
Commission, or their official representatives.
   “CITY COMMISSION.” The elected officials of the City of Lake Mary as
established by the City Charter.
   “CLEARING.” The removal of trees and brush from a substantial part of the
land; but does not include mowing.
   “CLINIC.” An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by one person or a group of persons
practicing any form of healing or health-building services to individuals,
whether those persons are medical doctors, chiropractors, osteopaths,
chiropodists, naturopaths, optometrists, dentists, or any such profession the
practice of which is lawful in the state, excluding pain management clinics, as
defined herein.
   “CLUB/LODGE (PRIVATE).” Buildings and other facilities owned or operated by
a corporation, association, persons, or a person for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, to which there is restricted public access or use, but
not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily conducted
as a business.
   “COLLECTOR.” A street which conducts traffic between local streets and
arterials, and also provides access to abutting property. Average daily traffic
normally ranges from 1,000 to 6,000 vehicles.
   “COLLECTION BINS OR BOXES.” Any stationary or free-standing container,
receptacle or similar device located on property and used for solicitation and
collection of donated items such as clothing, books, shoes or other non-
perishable personal property.
   “COLLOCATION.” To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace one
or more wireless communication facilities on, under, within, or adjacent to a
wireless support structure or utility pole. The term does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or wireless support structure in the public
rights-of-way. (F.S. § 337.401(7)(b)7).
   "COLUMN." An architectural support of definite proportions, usually
cylindrical in shape, with a shaft, a capital, and a base. May be freestanding
or attached to a wall.
   "COMMERCIAL." As used in F.S. § 166.04151(7), any use involving, in part or
in whole, the sale of merchandise, materials or services, excluding properties
that are used for medical or institutional purposes such as hospitals and
clinics, and excluding property with a conservation future land use overlay.
   “COMMISSION.” The City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   “COMMUNICATION ANTENNA.” An antenna designed to transmit or receive
communications as authorized by the Federal Communications Commission.
   “COMMUNICATION TOWER.” A guyed, monopole or self supporting tower,
constructed as a free-standing structure or in association with a building,
other permanent structure or equipment, containing one or more antennas
intended for transmitting or receiving television, AM/FM radio, digital,
microwave, cellular, telephone, or similar forms of electronic communication.
The term communication tower shall not include amateur radio operators’
equipment as licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). No tower
shall exceed 200' in height (including antenna) when freestanding, or 15' over
the building height when placed on top of buildings. Communication towers
permitted in the city are generally described as either monopole (freestanding)
or self-supporting lattice (square, triangular or pyramidal in plain view and
constructed of steel lattice). For purposes of this definition, the term shall
not include wireless communication facility support structures.
   “COMMUNITY SERVICES AND FACILITIES.” Includes facilities such as fire
stations, police stations, public and private parks and playgrounds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, community centers, libraries, museums, water plants,
sewage treatment plants, and similar public and private services.
   “COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.” The official documents adopted by the City Commission
which establish the policies and objectives for the future growth and
development of the city in accordance with state statutes, as described in
Chapter 151 of the City Code of Ordinances.
   “CONCEALED AND STEALTH COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.” Stealth towers are a
particular brand of concealed towers. Concealed towers require additional
material to create a “concealed appearance.”
   “CONDOMINIUM.” A building or group of buildings in which units are owned
individually, and common areas and facilities are owned by all the unit owners
on a proportional basis. It is a legal form of ownership and not a specific
building type.
   “CONFLICT OF INTEREST.” A situation in which regard for a private interest
tends to lead to disregard of a public duty or interest.
   “CONSTRUCTION, ACTUAL.” The commencement and continuous uninterrupted
prosecution of construction pursuant to a permit, which includes the permanent
placement and fastening of materials to the land or structure for which the
permit has been issued. Where demolition, excavation, or removal of an existing
structure has been substantially begun preparatory to new construction, that
work shall be deemed actual construction, provided that work shall be
continuously carried on until the completion of the new construction involved.
Fill and installation of drainage facilities shall be considered a part of
construction. Actual construction shall include only work begun under a valid
building permit.
   “CONTIGUOUS.” Lands that directly abut each other. Lands separated by
streets or right-of-way are not contiguous.
   “CONVENIENCE STORE.” An establishment limited to the sale of convenience
goods such as foodstuffs, drugs, cosmetics, and incidental household and
personal articles, not exceeding a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet. A
convenience store may also include fuel pumps for the sale of automotive fuels
and/or kerosene. This service area, however, shall not be considered part of
the gross floor area.
   "CORNICE." Any horizontal member, structural or nonstructural, of any
building, projecting outward from the exterior walls at the roof line,
including eaves and other roof overhang.
   "COUNTY." Seminole County, Florida, or the governing body thereof, the Board
of County Commissioners, or their official representatives.
   “CRAFT BREWERY.” A small-scale, licensed facility for the brewing of beer
that produces, processes, ferments, rectifies or blends craft brews, wines, or
distilled spirits. It may include a tasting room which allows for the sales of
beer and wine as defined in the Florida Statutes. Food preparation for serving
to guests may also be included.
   “CREMATORIUM.” A building used for the cremation (burning) of the deceased.
   "CUL-DE-SAC." A local street with only one outlet, and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   “DAY CARE CENTER.” An establishment where three or more individuals, either
children or adults, other than members of the family occupying the premises,
are cared for less than 24 hours a day. The term includes day nurseries,
kindergartens, day care service, day care agency, nursery school, child care
center, play school and/or adult day care facility. The term does not include
foster homes or halfway houses.
   "DENSITY, GROSS RESIDENTIAL." The total number of dwelling units divided by
the total number of land acres on a site. For the purpose of this definition,
land acres shall include all easements and proposed rights-of-way, but shall
not include existing road rights-of-way or any land located within the 100-year
flood plain as defined by the flood insurance rate map.
   "DENSITY, NET." The total number of dwelling units in an area divided by the
total number of land acres devoted entirely to a designated land use. For the
purpose of this definition, land acres shall not include existing or proposed
road rights-of- way or any area located below the 100-year flood plain as
defined by the flood insurance rate map.
   "DESIGNATES." As used in F.S. § 166.04151(7)(f), to designate property with
a future land use category in the comprehensive plan.
   "DEVELOPED." That point in time when the building and site have received
final inspections.
   "DEVELOPER." Any person, including a governmental agency, undertaking any
development, as defined in this section.
   "DEVELOPMENT." Shall have the meanings given in F.S. Chapters 163 and 380.
   "DEVELOPMENT ORDER." Shall have the meanings given in F.S. Chapters 163 and
380.
   "DEVELOPMENT PERMIT." Shall have the meanings given in F.S. Chapters 163 and
380.
   "DISCHARGE, DISCHARGE POINT." The outflow of water from a project, site
aquifer, drainage basin, or facility.
   "DISTRICT (ZONING)." Any certain described area of the city within which the
regulations of this chapter apply and within which regulations are uniform
   "DISTRICT BOUNDARIES." For purposes of calculating setbacks as required in
this chapter, district boundaries shall be construed as beginning at the
nearest adjacent property line within a district. This is specifically intended
to prevent establishment of setbacks from artificial boundary lines, including
streets, railroads, or similar locations, except as specifically provided in
this chapter.
   "DOCK." A structure built on or over the water, which is designed or used as
anchorage for and access to one or more boats for commercial or private use.
Necessary services such as water and other utilities are considered a part of a
dock; however, no sleeping, cooking, or business activity shall be permitted.
   "DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM." Surface streams or swamps which
convey water to natural points of discharge.
   "DREDGING, FILLING, AND OTHER RELATED ACTIVITIES." Any activities which may
affect the quality of the waters of the city, such as the following: draining,
digging, pumping, pushing, removing, or displacing, by any means, of material;
or the dumping, moving, relocating, or depositing of material, either directly
or otherwise; and the erecting of structures, driving of pilings, or placing of
obstructions below the mean-high-water mark of any body of water within the
city.
   "DRIP LINE." The vertical line running through the outermost portion of the
tree crown extending to the ground.
   "DRIVE-IN (BUSINESS)." A business which offers one or more of the following:
rendering of services to a patron remaining in a vehicle parked on the premises
in other than a designated off-street parking space; take-out window or
counter, service window, or curb service, and salable items in takeout form; or
outdoor service facilities, including tables and waste receptacles.
   "DRIVE-IN THEATER." A place of outdoor assembly used for the showing of
plays, operas, motion pictures, and similar forms of entertainment which is
designed to permit the audiences to view the performance from self- propelled
vehicles parked within the theater enclosure.
   "DUE PUBLIC NOTICE." As used in connection with the phrase "public hearing"
or "hearings with due public notice," involves the following requirements:
      (1)   At least 15 days notice of the time and place of hearing required
under this act shall be published one time in a newspaper of general
circulation in that area. However, if the hearing applies to a single lot,
parcel, or tract of land rather than to all of the lands within a planning
area, governmental jurisdiction, zoning district or other planning or
governmental subunit, notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place on the
lot, parcel, or tract of land.
      (2)   The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing, or the
times and places of the hearings, the nature of the matter to be discussed, and
may state that the hearings will be continued from time to time as may be found
necessary.
      (3)   Affidavit proof of the required publication shall be present at the
hearing.
   "DWELLING." A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multi-family
dwellings; but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses, rooming houses,
or house trailers, whether the trailers be mobile or located in a stationary
fashion as on blocks or other foundations; nor tents, houseboats, travel
trailers, or other forms of temporary or portable housing.
   "DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY." A building containing three or more dwelling
units.
   "DWELLING, MULTIPLE DWELLING USE." For the purposes of determining whether a
lot is in multiple dwelling use, the following considerations shall apply:
      (1)   Multiple dwelling uses may involve dwelling units intended to be
rented and maintained under central ownership and management, or cooperative
apartments, condominiums, and the like.
      (2)   Where an undivided lot contains more than one building and the
buildings are not so located that lots and yards conforming to requirements for
single-, two-, or multiple-family dwellings in the district could be provided,
the lot shall be considered to be in multiple dwelling use if there are three
or more dwelling units on the lot, even though the individual buildings may
each contain less than three dwelling units.
      (3)   Guest houses and servants quarters shall not be considered as
dwelling units in the computation of (2) above.
      (4)   Any multiple dwelling in which dwelling units are available for
rental for periods of less than one week shall be considered as a tourist home,
motel, motor-hotel, or hotel, as the case may be.
   "DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building or manufactured home containing only
one dwelling unit. For regulatory purposes, the term is not to be construed as
including travel trailers, housing mounted on self-propelled or drawn vehicles,
tents, houseboats, or other forms of temporary or portable housing.
   "DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX." A building containing only two dwelling
units.
   "DWELLING UNIT." A building consisting of one or more rooms which are
arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family only, containing
independent sanitation and cooking facilities.
   "EMF." Electromagnetic field.
   "EASEMENT." A right given by the owner of land or property to another party
for specific, limited use or restriction of that land or property, the title to
which shall remain in the name of the property owner, subject to the right of
use designated in the instrument by which the easement is conveyed.
   "EAVE." The lower edge of a sloping roof surface; the top edge of a parapet
or flat roof.
   "FAMILY." One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit that are
related by law, blood, adoption, or marriage. A family shall not contain more
than four unrelated persons. Domestic servants employed on the premises may be
housed on the premises without being counted as a separate or additional family
or families. The term "FAMILY" shall not be construed to mean a fraternity,
sorority, club, monastery or convent, or institutional group.
   "FENCE." A structure and enclosure constructed of component wood, metal,
mesh, or plastic parts, which can, if necessary, be disassembled and moved, and
which has no permanent foundation or continuous footings.
   "FENCE AND WALL, DECORATIVE." Fence types including but not limited to
split-rail fences and picket fences. Such fences and walls may not exceed six
feet in height and may have a base that shall not exceed 50% of the height of
the fence. The base may be up to 100% opaque. That portion of the fence/wall
above the base shall not exceed 50% opacity. Chain-link fences, wire fences and
privacy fences and walls shall not be considered decorative.
   "FENESTRATION." The arrangement of windows, doors and openings in a
building's facade.
   "FINAL MASTER PLAN." The specific plan for the development of a planned unit
development, which shall include such information as required under the planned
unit district of these regulations.
   "FINAL PLAT." Those submittals as required by, and following the procedures
of, the city's subdivision regulations, showing all building lots, easements,
rights-of-way, and other information necessary for providing the detailed
description of the subdivision of a parcel of land.
   "FLEA MARKET." An open-air market encompassing more than 500 square feet
where old, used, or new merchandise is offered for sale by three or more
vendors on a regular basis.
   "FLOOR AREA (GROSS FLOOR AREA)." Except as may be otherwise indicated in
relation to particular districts and uses, floor area shall be construed as the
sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a building measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls
separating two buildings, but not including interior parking spaces, loading
space, or any space where the floor to ceiling height is less than six feet.
   “FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).” As used in F.S. § 166.04151(7)(c) shall mean the
Floor Area, not including parking areas, on a lot, divided by the lot area.
(For example, a building containing 20,000 square feet of floor area on a
zoning lot of 40,000 square feet has a floor area ratio of 0.5).
   "FOSTER CARE FACILITY." A structure in which the owners or operators are
subject to licensing or approval by the State Department of Health and
Rehabilitative Services, live permanently, and provide full-time care and
supervision in a family living environment to a maximum of three full-time
clients who are unrelated to the owners or operators.
   “FRONT PORCH.” An unairconditioned, roofed structure attached to the front
of the primary building. For structures in the DC zoning district, front
porches must be a minimum of seven feet in depth and cover a minimum of one-
third of the front building facade.
   “FUNERAL HOME.” A building used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and the display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before
burial or cremation. A funeral home may display and sell caskets, urns and
other provisions specifically used in the funeral ceremony. A funeral home may
not include ancillary uses such as mausoleums, crematoriums or cemeteries.
   "GARAGE APARTMENT." An accessory or subordinate building, not a part of or
attached to the main building and the enclosed space for at least one
automobile is attached to the dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Occupies not more than 25% of the building floor area excluding
carports, garages, porte cocheres, breezeways, and screened or open porches of
the principal unit/structure, or 600 square feet, whichever is greater;
      (2)   Is used exclusively for housing members of the family occupying the
principal dwelling, or their non-paying guests; and
      (3)   Complies with the property development regulations for the district
in which it is located.
   "GARAGE, MECHANICAL." A building, or portion thereof, other than a private
garage or service station, designed or used for repairing, equipping, or
servicing of motor vehicles, and may include the renting, storing, or selling
of motor vehicles.
   "GARAGE, PARKING." A building or portion thereof designed or used for
temporary parking of motor vehicles, and within which gasoline and oils may be
sold only to parking patrons of the garage.
   "GARAGE, PRIVATE." An accessory use designed or used for inside parking of
private passenger vehicles by the occupants of the main building. A private
garage attached to or part of the main structure is to be considered part of
the main building. An unattached private garage is to be considered as an
accessory building.
   "GOVERNING BODY." The City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   "GRADE." The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   "GREEN BELT." An area of land, either retained in its natural state or
landscaped with grass, shrubs, and trees, intended to provide buffering for
adjacent land uses and to facilitate on-site percolation of storm water runoff.
   "GREENBOOK." The "Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design,
Construction, and Maintenance for Streets and Highways," prepared by the State
Department of Transportation, Tallahassee, Florida.
   "GROSS SALES." The dollar amount reported to the Florida Department of
Revenue as "GROSS SALES."
   "GROUND WATER." Water beneath the surface of the ground, whether or not
flowing through known definite channels.
   "GROSS FLOOR AREA." See "FLOOR AREA."
   "GUEST HOUSE." A building that:
      (1)   Occupies not more than 25% of the building floor area excluding
carports, garages, porte cocheres, breezeways, and screened or open porches of
the principal unit/structure, whichever is greater;
      (2)   Is used exclusively for housing members of the family occupying the
principal dwelling, or their non-paying guests; and
      (3)   Complies with the property development regulations for the district
in which it is located.
   “GUYED COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.” A tower that is basically a straight rod
supported by wires that attach to the ground as support. Typical uses are:
telephony, radio, television, and paging.
   "HOME, MANUFACTURED." A single-family dwelling unit, certified by the
Florida Department of Veterans and Community Affairs as a single-family
manufactured home.
   "HOME, MOBILE. A structure designed for relatively long occupancy as a
single-family dwelling, which is designed for transportation on streets and
highways on its own wheels after fabrication, and which may be legally licensed
as a vehicle, arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on jacks or other supports, connections to
utilities, and the like.
   "HOME, MOTOR." See "MOTOR HOME."
   "HOME OCCUPATION." An occupation conducted either entirely in a dwelling
unit, or a business in which the dwelling unit or its accessory buildings serve
as a base for business conducted entirely off the premises, provided that:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in the occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and shall under no circumstances change the residential character
thereof.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupation,
other than one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated,
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building at a position not more
than two feet distant from the main entrance to the residence.
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit, if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises.
      (6)   A home occupation shall be subject to all applicable city
occupational licenses and other business taxes.
   "HOSPITAL." An institution licensed by the state to provide health services,
primarily to in-patients, and medical and surgical care of the sick or injured,
including as integral parts of the institution, related facilities such as
laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities, central services,
and staff offices.
   "HOSPITAL, ANIMAL." A facility for the diagnosis, treatment, and
convalescence of animal patients. Animals may be boarded on the premises for
the purpose of treatment only.
   "HOTEL, MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL, MOTOR LODGE, TOURIST COURT." These terms are to
be considered synonymous, and to mean a building or a group of buildings in
which sleeping accommodations are offered to the public and intended primarily
for rental to transients with daily charge, as distinguished from multiple-
family dwellings (apartments) and rooming or boarding houses, where rentals are
for periods of a week or longer, and occupancy is generally by residents rather
than transients.
   "IMPERVIOUS SURFACE." All surface areas of a lot or parcel, including
portions of occupied buildings or structures, where surface drainage waters are
unable to freely percolate downward through the natural soils.
   "IMPROVEMENTS." Street pavements, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, alley
pavements, walkway pavements, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or
drains, street names, signs, landscaping, permanent reference monuments (PRMs),
permanent control points (PCPs), or any other improvements required by the city
or these regulations.
   "INSTRUCTIONAL STUDIO." Fine arts museums and fine arts instruction
including: art instruction limited to painting, sculpture, pottery, and
photography. Dance instruction, including but not limited to, ballet, tap, jazz
and modern dance. Music instruction limited to piano, non-percussion symphony
instruments, and non-amplified stringed instruments.
    "JUNKYARD." A place, structure, or lot where junk, waste, and discarded,
salvaged, or similar materials such as old metals, wood, slush, lumber, glass,
paper, rags, cloth, bagging, cordage, barrels, containers, and the like, are
brought, bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored or
handled, including used lumber and building material yards or places for the
storage, sale, or handling of salvaged house wrecking or structural steel
materials. This definition shall not include automobile wrecking and automobile
wrecking yards, or pawnshops and establishments for the sale, purchase, or
storage or secondhand cars, clothing, salvaged machinery, furniture, radios,
stoves, refrigerators, or similar household goods and appliances, all of which
shall be usable; nor shall it apply to the processing of used, discarded, or
salvaged materials incident to manufacturing activity on the same site where
that processing occurs.
   "KENNEL." Land or improvements used for raising, breeding, boarding, and
grooming, for profit, more than five domestic animals such as dogs or cats, but
excluding customary farm animals, or exotic species such as lions.
   "LAKE." Any natural body of water of two acres or more so designated
according to the latest United States Geological Survey map. For the purposes
of this chapter, a lake must contain water throughout the year.
   "LAKEFRONT PROPERTY." Property abutting a lake, or having deeded access to a
lake.
   "LAND." Any ground, soil, earth, water, or combination thereof, including
all things found permanently thereon whether by nature or by the hand of man.
The term shall also include the words, "water," "marsh," or "swamp."
   "LAND OWNER." The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all of the land
proposed to be included in a development; the holder of an option or a contract
to purchase; or a person having possessory rights or equal dignity, will be
deemed to be a land owner for the purpose of this chapter so long as the
written consent to the development of the owners of all other interest in the
land concerned is obtained.
   "LAND SURVEYOR." A land surveyor registered under state statutes who is in
good standing with the State Board of Professional Engineers and Land
Surveyors.
   "LAND USE." The development that has occurred on the land, or the
development that is proposed by a developer on the land; or the use that is
permitted or permissible on the land under an adopted comprehensive plan, or
element or portion thereof, or under land development regulations or a land
development code, as the context may indicate.
   "LAND USE PLAN." An element of the comprehensive plan which establishes the
policies, objectives, and map for future land use within the city.
   “LATTICE COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.” A tower sometimes referred to as “self-
support” because it is free-standing. It stands 200 to 400 feet tall with a
triangular base and three to four sides. It is typically used for telephony.
   "LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE." A business that provides home-type washing, drying,
or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   “LIGHT, DECORATIVE.” A light fixture that is designed for aesthetic appeal
as well as illumination. Wall packs, flood lights, bare incandescent or
fluorescent light bulbs, and the like, are not considered to be a decorative
light.
   “LIVE LOCAL ACT.” Is F.S. § 166.04151, as amended from time to time.
   "LOCAL STREET." A street which provides access to property, serving as the
first level of roadway for a neighborhood. It serves as a feeder to collector
streets. Average daily traffic is normally less than 1,000 vehicles.
   "LOT."
      (1)   General. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet
minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such
yards and other open spaces as are required in this chapter. A lot shall have
frontage on a public street or on an approved private street, and may consist
of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record;
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of these zoning regulations.
      (2)   Lot types.
         (a)   "CORNER LOT." A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees.
         (b)   "INTERIOR LOT." A lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street.
         (c)   "REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT." A lot in which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angle less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot, an interior lot, or a through lot.
         (d)   "THROUGH LOT." A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots.
   "LOT FRONTAGE." The portion of a lot nearest the street right-of-way. For
the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner and through lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to street rights-of-way shall be considered frontage,
and yards shall be provided as set forth in the zoning regulations.
   "LOT MEASUREMENT, DEPTH." The distance between the midpoints of straight
lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the
rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
   "LOT MEASUREMENT, WIDTH." The distance between straight lines connecting
front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of
the required front yard; provided, however, that width between side lot lines
at their foremost points (where they intersect with the street line) shall not
be less than 80% of the required lot width except in the case of lots on the
turning circle of a cul-de-sac, where the 80% requirement shall not apply.
   "LOT OF RECORD."
      (1)   A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Seminole County; or
      (2)   A lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of
which has been so recorded on or before the effective date of these zoning
regulations or of prior zoning and subdivision regulations governing the
creation of lots.
   "LOT WIDTH AT THE BUILDING LINE." The distance between the side lot lines,
measured at the front building line and parallel to the front lot line.
   “MACRO WIRELESS FACILITY.” A large wireless communication facility that
provides radio frequency coverage for a personal wireless service. Generally,
macro cell antennas are mounted on ground-based towers, rooftops and other
existing structures, at a height that provides a clear view over the
surrounding buildings and terrain. Macro cell facilities typically contain
antennas that are greater than three cubic feet per antenna and typically cover
large geographic areas with relatively high capacity and mav be capable of
hosting multiple wireless service providers.
   “MAJOR TRANSPORTATION HUB.” A commuter rail or transit station where two or
more transit routes intersect with service frequencies of 15 minutes or less
during morning and afternoon peak hours and hourly Sunday service. A “MAJOR
TRANSPORTATION HUB” includes covered structure(s) to provide protection from
the elements, adequate seating to accommodate a minimum of ten people, and a
fare collection box.
   "MARINA." A premises or site used as a commercial establishment for the
provision of rental of covered or uncovered boat slips or dock space, or
enclosed dry storage space; rental or sale of boats and boat motors, marine
fuel and lubricants, bait and fishing equipment; on-shore restaurants; and
small boat hauling or launching facilities. The premises or site shall not
include boat or motor manufacturing as an incidental use.
   “MAUSOLEUM.” A building with stacked vaults for the entombment of the
deceased.
   "MEAN HIGH WATER LINE." The land contour line as indicated on the United
States Geological Survey quadrangle map.
   "MINI-WAREHOUSES." A structure or structures used for the purpose of
personal storage. It is not permitted to operate a business from a mini-
warehouse unit, nor shall a mini-warehouse unit be used for the storage, sale,
or assembly of property in the conduct of a business. No mini- warehouse shall
be used for human occupancy of any type. "HUMAN OCCUPANCY" includes the use of
any building, structure, or facility for living or sleeping purposes.
   "MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL." As used in F.S. § 166.04151(7)(a) and (f), a
maximum of 65% of the square footage is residential: and 35% is high end
commercial or class-A office, not including a home-based business or an
institutional use. The ground floor of each building includes a nonresidential
use. For purposes of this definition, "HIGH END COMMERCIAL" means specialty
retail stores focusing on certain categories of goods; "CLASS-A OFFICE" means
premier office space with high quality finishes, amenities and technology
systems. All mixed use residential that includes multi-family housing must
comply with §
154.59 and §
154.140 of the land development code.
   "MIXED USE ZONING," As used in F.S. § 166.04151(7)(a), property with a
zoning category consistent with a comprehensive plan future land use
designation of "Mixed Use Midtown" or "Mixed Use District." The property must
have more than one use, and cannot include a residential use.
   "MOBILE FOOD VENDOR." A person who is in the business of selling prepared
food from a vehicle which has a current registration and license from the State
of Florida and complies with the provisions of §
154.21(C) of the city's Code of Ordinances.
   "MOBILE HOME." See "HOME, MOBILE."
   “MONOPOLE COMMUNICATIONS TOWER.” A single tube tower which typically stands
between 100 and 200 feet with antennas mounted on the exterior of the tower.
Its primary use is telephony.
   "MOTEL." See "HOTEL."
   "MOTOR HOME." A portable temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation, and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
   "NATURAL FLOW PATTERN." The rate, volume, and direction of the surface of
ground water flow occurring under natural conditions for any given portion of
the city.
   "NEW AND USED VEHICLE SALES." The sale, lease, or rental of new or used
vehicles such as cars, trucks, recreational vehicles, or motorcycles, including
servicing and parts sales.
   "NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION."   A newspaper published at least on a
weekly basis and printed in the language most commonly spoken in the area
within which it circulates; but does not include a newspaper intended primarily
for members of a particular professional or occupational group, a newspaper
whose primary function is to carry legal notices, or a newspaper that is given
away primarily to distribute advertising.
   "NIER." Nonionizing electromagnetic radiation.
   "NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES." Existing improvements which do not meet required
parking and loading regulations, height regulations, area regulations, floor
area regulations, or other applicable regulations for the district in which
they are located.
   "NONCONFORMING USE." See "USE", (1)(d) "NONCONFORMING."
   "NURSERY SCHOOL." See "DAY CARE CENTER."
   "NURSING HOME." A facility, licensed as a nursing home by the state, where
24-hour a day nursing, medical, convalescent, or custodial care is provided for
persons suffering from illness, disease, or mental or physical infirmity,
except from contagious disease or sociopathic or psychotic behavior, and not in
need of hospital care.
   "OFFICE." A building or portion of a building wherein services are performed
involving predominantly administrative, professional, or clerical operations.
   "OFFICE, MEDICAL." A building or portion of a building that contains health
care facilities; establishments which dispense health services, as well as
establishments providing support to the medical profession and patients,
including but not limited to, medical and dental laboratories, and
miscellaneous types of medical supplies and services.
   "OFFICIAL ZONING MAP." An official map depicting the boundaries and
identification of the zoning districts established by the City Commission
through the provisions of law and the zoning regulations.
   "OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITY." A lot or parcel of land or structure
designed, constructed, or utilized for the temporary storage or parking of
motor vehicles.
   "OPEN SPACE." An exterior ground level area, open to the sky and devoid of
buildings, structures, and parking, loading, or other vehicular use areas.
   "OUTDOOR ADVERTISING." The commercial business of utilizing a non-accessory
sign on a parcel of land to display a commercial message relating to a
business, product, service, event, or person located somewhere other than the
parcel of land where the sign is located, whether as a wall sign or as a ground
sign or in any other manner, including but not limited to any such commercial
business that requires a state outdoor advertising license under F.S. Chapter
479 (Outdoor Advertising).
   "OUTDOOR LICENSED FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER." A food service establishment that
is not located in a vehicle, and that operates as an accessory use at a fixed
location providing support services for specific required functions of a beer
garden or craft brewery only in the Downtown Centre Zoning District. A mobile
food vendor shall not be considered an outdoor licensed food service provider.
The outdoor licensed food service provider shall meet distance and safety
requirements as outlined in the Florida Fire Prevention Code, § 154.21(C),
except for (C)(1), (5), (6)(a)-(c), (g), (h), and all other applicable codes.
   "PACKAGE STORE." A place where alcoholic beverages are dispensed or sold in
containers for consumption off the premises.
   "PAIN MANAGEMENT CLINICS." A pain management clinic shall mean any medical
office/facility that is required to register with the Florida Department of
Health, under F.S. §§ 458.3265 or 459.0137, as may be amended from time to
time.
   "PARCEL OF LAND." Any quantity of land capable of being described with such
definiteness that its location and boundaries may be established, and which is
designated by its owner or developer as land to be used or developed as a unit,
or which has been used or developed as a unit.
   "PARK." Property set apart for public or private recreation, containing
natural or man-made permanent improvements.
   "PARKING." The standing of a prohibited vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   “PARKING, COVERED.” In connection with maximum percentage of lot coverage
requirements, an accessory structure:
      (1)   Separate from or attached to the principal building;
      (2)   Erected for the purpose of protecting automotive vehicles from the
elements; and
      (3)   Having an external appearance, architectural definition, of
construction which, when viewed public ways, including waterways, shall
resemble the external surface, appearance, architectural definition, or type or
construction of the main building.
      (4)   Use of aluminum or other metal sheeting shall not qualify as
covered parking, unless the principal building is similarly constructed.
   “PARKING LOT.” A paved area, open to the sky, intended or used for parking
more than four vehicles.
   “PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.” A space adequate for parking a standard size
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room. A required
off-street parking area for three or more automobiles shall have individual
spaces marked, and shall be so designed, maintained, and regulated that no
parking or maneuvering incidental to parking shall be on any public street,
walk, or alley, and so that any automobile may be parked and unparked without
moving another. Minimum size for an individual off-street parking space shall
not be less than nine feet by 19 feet. For purposes of rough computation, an
off-street parking space and necessary access and maneuvering room may be
estimated at 300 square feet, but off-street parking requirements will be
considered to be met only where actual spaces meeting the requirements above
are provided and maintained, improved in the manner required by these
regulations and in accordance with all ordinances and regulations of the city.
(See
Chapter 155, Appendix B .)
   “PARKWAY STRIP.” The unpaved portion of the right-of-way between the back of
curb and the sidewalk. The parkway strip typically includes street light poles
and lights, utility poles, regulatory signage, traffic signal equipment and
street trees. In some instances, a streetscape zone may not have a parkway
strip. See Graphic A below definition of “STREETSCAPE ZONE.”
   “PATIO HOME, CLUSTER HOME, OR ZERO LOT LINE.” A single-family dwelling
designed and located as part of an approved complex where dwellings are placed
at or near a lot line or otherwise arranged in clustered groups, so as to
create minimum individual yard areas that are compensated with large, common
open space areas for the use and enjoyment of all residents.
   “PCP (PERMANENT CONTROL POINT).” A secondary, horizontal-control monument as
defined in F.S. § 177.031 (13).
   “PEDESTRIAN CLEAR ZONE.” The unencumbered paved, or sidewalk portion of the
streetscape zone inside the right-of-way. The pedestrian clear zone may or may
not be separated from the travel lane by a street furniture zone or parkway
strip. See Graphic A below for definition of “STREETSCAPE ZONE.”
   “PERMITTED USES.” See “USE”, (1)(e) “PERMITTED.”
   “PERSONAL SERVICES.” Includes such uses as beauty salons, barber shops,
reducing or slenderizing studios, or any similar uses where sales of
merchandise is only incidental to the primary services provided.
   “PHARMACY.” A place where drugs and medicines are prepared and sold.
   “PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.” Land under unified control which:
      (1)   Meets the minimum requirements as stated therein, and
      (2)   Is planned and improved in a single development operation or in a
programmed series of development phases according to an officially adopted
master plan for the development and related program for the provision,
operation, and maintenance of the area improvements.
   “PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.” An official advisory body of the city, the
functions and powers of which are described in §
154.25.
   “PLAT.” A map or delineated representation of the subdivision of lands,
being a complete, exact representation of the subdivision and other information
in compliance with the requirement of all applicable statutes and local
regulations. May include the terms “replat” or “revised plat.” In whatever
tense used, “to plat” shall mean to divide or subdivide land into lots, blocks,
tracts, sites, streets, rights- of-way, easements, or other divisions, however
designated.
   “PORTABLE STRUCTURE.” A structure that is designed to be moved or that can
be readily disassembled for moving, including calf pens, farrowing pens, animal
feed and shelter units, temporary silos, and the like.
   "PORTICO." A set of columns or colonnade that support a roof or covered
walkway leading to a building entrance.
   “PRELIMINARY MASTER PLAN.” The proposal for development of a planned unit
development which shall include information as required by this chapter.
   “PRELIMINARY PLAN.” Those submittals required by and following the
procedures of the city’s subdivision regulations, showing building lots and
other information necessary for providing a general description of the
subdivision of a parcel of land.
   “PRIVATE CLUB.” An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic,
social, cultural, religious, literary, political, recreational, or like
activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general
public.
   “PRIVATE STREET.” See “STREET, PRIVATE.”
   “PRM (PERMANENT REFERENCE MONUMENT.” A monument as defined in F.S. § 177.031
(15).
   “PROHIBITED VEHICLE.” Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a roadway, except devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks as regulated by F.S. Chapter 316 as
same may from time to time be amended, having a rated capacity of one ton or
more including, but not limited to: farm tractors, road tractors, school buses,
semitrailers, truck tractor-trailers having an overall length of more than 12
feet, and excluding emergency vehicles while in use in response to an official
dispatch or request for assistance and excluding vehicles commonly referred to
as pickup trucks or recreational vehicles.
   “PROJECT.” The particular structures and improvements proposed by the
applicant on a particular land area, which are part of a common plan of
development.
   “PROPERTY OWNER.” The person named in the Seminole County Tax Collector’s
public records as the owner of real property or a legal representative.
   “PROJECT INITIATION.” All acts antecedent to actual construction activities
including, but not limited to, land clearing, utility construction, and the
like.
   “PUBLIC STREET.” See “STREET, PUBLIC.”
   “PUBLIC UTILITY.” Any publicly or privately operated utility, such as, but
not limited to, storm drainage, sanitary sewer, electric power, water service,
gas service, or telephone lines, whether underground or overhead.
   “QUALIFYING DEVELOPMENT.” Shall mean a mixed-use residential development
proposed pursuant to F.S. § 166.04151(7), with 65% of the total square footage
used for residential purposes, at least 40% of which are affordable, as defined
in F.S. § 420.0004, for a period of at least 30 years, with the remaining 35%
of the total square footage dedicated to non- residential uses, as provided in
§
154.09 .
   “RECHARGE.” The inflow of water into a project, site aquifer, drainage
basin, or facility.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” An automobile trailer, camper, pickup camper, bus,
or other vehicle with or without motive power, designed and constructed to
travel on public thoroughfares without special permit in accordance with the
provisions of the State Vehicle Code. For the purposes of this chapter, a
“RECREATIONAL VEHICLE” shall not be considered a dwelling unit.
   “REDEVELOPMENT.” The reconstruction, remodeling, upgrading or repair of a
structure associated with a conversion in use, structural alteration,
relocation, enlargement or change of occupancy, per Chapter 154 of the City's
Land Development Code. Redevelopment projects are required to meet all
applicable standards of this chapter.
   “RENOVATION.” The reconstruction, remodeling, upgrading or repair of a
structure without modification of structural design and not in conjunction with
a change of use of the structure or land. Renovation projects are encouraged to
meet the standards of this chapter but are not required to unless such
renovation project can be defined as a redevelopment project.
   “RESERVOIR AREA.” An area not on the public right-of-way which is provided
for the temporary use of vehicles waiting to enter or leave a vehicle-oriented
service or an off-street parking facility.
   “RESTAURANT.” An establishment where food is ordered from a menu, prepared,
and served for pay primarily for consumption on the premises and the semiannual
average percentage of alcoholic beverage sales does not exceed 49%.
   “RE-SUBDIVISION.” A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat, if the change affects any street layout on the map, or area reserved
thereon for public use, of any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
   “RETAINING WALL.” A wall designed to prevent the lateral displacement of
soil or other material. For the purpose of §
154.20 of this chapter, tree wells are not considered to be retaining walls.
   “RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS WITH INCIDENTAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES.” An
establishment primarily devoted to the retail sale of goods, which also has on-
site consumption of alcoholic beverages. The sale of alcoholic beverages for
on-site consumption shall not exceed 15% of the gross revenue of other products
and shall be reported per the methodology listed in the definition of
“SEMIANNUAL AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES” in this section.
Patrons may also consume alcoholic beverages which are brought onto the
premises and not sold or supplied to the patrons by the establishment, similar
to a bottle club. Restaurants shall not be classified as “RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
WITH INCIDENTAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES.” “RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS WITH
INCIDENTAL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES” may not have a 4COP liquor license from
the State of Florida.
   “RETAIL MANUFACTURING OUTLET STORE.” An ancillary and incidental retail
operation to the principle manufacturing use. A retail manufacturing use. A
“RETAIL MANUFACTURING OUTLET STORE” is specifically limited to the sale of
products that are manufactured and warehoused on site. No products manufactured
or distributed by any other business may be stored, displayed or sold at such
an outlet store.
      (1)   The maximum area of the outlet store is limited to 10% of the total
square footage of the manufacturing operation or 2,500 square feet, whichever
is less.
      (2)   The store may be contained within the principle manufacturing
building or detached from the principal manufacturing building. If the outlet
store is detached it must be on the same property and owned by the same owner
(s) as the principal manufacturing building.
      (3)   All applicable site plan regulations as codified in
Chapter 156 shall apply to the approval of an outlet store.
      (4)   The hours of retail operation shall be coincident with the hours of
manufacturing operation and/or limited to 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Monday
through Sunday.
      (5)   Signage shall be limited to wall signs only. Sign area shall be
limited to a maximum of 32 square feet and shall be calculated as a portion of
the maximum allowable sign area for the principal manufacturing use.
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW).” Land dedicated, deeded, used, or to be used for a
street, alley, walkway, boulevard, public utility, drainage facility, access
for ingress and egress, or other purpose by the public, certain designated
individuals, or governing bodies.
   “ROADWAY.” The paved portion of a street available for vehicular traffic.
   “SCHOOLS.” For the purposes of §
154.13 , as defined in F.S. § 562.45, which may be amended from time to time.
   “SELF-SUPPORT TOWER.” A communication tower that is constructed without guy
wires and ground anchors including lattice towers.
   “SEMIANNUAL AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES.” The following
formula shall be applied:
          A    X 100 = C
          B
      (1)   A = the total of gross sales derived from alcoholic beverages for
six consecutive months, or fraction thereof.
      (2)   B = The total gross sales.
      (3)   C = The semiannual average percentage of alcoholic beverage sales.
      (4)   The reporting periods shall be from January through June and from
June through December, or fraction thereof. As provided in §
154.13, no later than July 15 and January 15, the business owner shall provide
documentation of its revenues to the City of Lake Mary Community Development
Department, per the above formula.
   “SERVICE DRIVE.” A public street, generally paralleling and contiguous to a
main traveled way, primarily designed to promote safety by eliminating
promiscuous ingress and egress to the right-of-way, and providing safe and
orderly points of access at fairly uniformly spaced intervals.
   “SERVICE STATIONS.” See “AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.”
   “SETBACK.” A minimum open space distance expressed in feet, which must be
maintained to provide separation between a front, side, or rear lot line and
the base building foundation line, where no building, structure, or portion
thereof shall be permitted, erected, constructed, or placed unless specifically
permitted by this chapter.
   “SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL.” A septic tank or any other sewage
treatment device approved by the County Health Department in accordance with
the regulations of the state, and servicing only one lot.
   “SHOPPING CENTER.” A group of retail stores, planned and developed for the
site upon which they are built, with off-street parking provided on the
property.
   “SIDEWALK.” That concrete portion of a right-of-way intended for pedestrian
use.
   “SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE.” The triangular clip required on any intersection
corner to permit a vehicle operator an unobstructed view of the crossing
roadway for a minimum sight distance in either direction along the crossing
roadway.
   “SITE.” Property suitable for a specific use under this chapter.
   “SITE PLAN.” An illustration of the details of the development of areas,
such as, but not limited to, commercial, industrial, recreational, and
multiple- family residential uses.
   “SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.” A wireless communication facility that meets the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna associated with the facility is located inside an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of antennas
that have exposed elements, each antenna and all of its exposed elements could
fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume: and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switches,
cutoff switches, vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services, and utility poles or other support structures.
   “SOIL POTENTIAL, LOW.” Serious soil limitations exist that are difficult to
overcome and the practices necessary to overcome the limitations are relatively
costly compared to those required for soils with higher potential; necessary
practices may involve environmental values and considerations; performance for
the intended use is poor or unreliable.
   “SOIL POTENTIAL, VERY LOW.” Very serious soil limitations exist that are
most difficult to overcome; initial cost of the practices and maintenance cost
are very high compared to those for soils with high potential; environmental
values are usually depreciated; performance for the intended use is inadequate
or below acceptable standards.
   “SPECIAL RESTRICTION.” Those restrictions placed on any permitted or
conditional land use within a particular zoning classification.
   “STABLE, PRIVATE.” A stable with a capacity of not more than one horse for
each 7,000 square feet of lot area whereon the stable is located, and where the
horses are owned by the owners or occupants of the premises and are not kept
for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   “STORY.” That part of a building contained between any floor and the floor
or roof next above.
   “STREET.” A public or approved private thoroughfare which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property. Includes lanes, ways, places,
drives, boulevards, roads, avenues, or other means of ingress or egress,
regardless of the descriptive term used. Driveways and alleys are not
considered streets.
   “STREET FURNITURE ZONE.” The paved portion of the streetscape zone typically
located between the back of curb and the sidewalk. The street furniture zone
typically includes street light poles and lights, utility poles, regulatory
signage, traffic signal equipment and street trees. In some cases, a
streetscape zone may not have a furniture zone. See Graphic A below for
definition of “STREETSCAPE ZONE.”
   "STREET, PRIVATE." A privately-owned vehicular access easement to property
owners within a planned unit development, cluster development, apartment and
condominium project, or townhouse project. Private streets shall be platted in
an ingress or egress easement, but need not be dedicated to the general public;
they shall not be accepted by or improved or maintained by the city until such
time as the city may elect to accept the streets as public streets. The term
"private street" shall include the term "approved private street."
   "STREET, PUBLIC." A vehicular right-of-way that has been dedicated to and
accepted by the city for maintenance.
   "STREETSCAPE ZONE." The portion of a street between the back of curb and the
adjacent property lines, consisting of a sidewalk and a parkway strip or a
street furniture zone. See Graphic A below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6335.jpg]
 
   "STRUCTURE." Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground;
including but not limited to, buildings, towers, storage tanks, walls,
billboards, and the like, but not including cement slabs at ground level or
less than six inches above ground level. The word "STRUCTURE" includes the word
"BUILDING", as well as other things constructed or erected on the ground,
attached to something having location on the ground, or requiring construction
or erection on the ground.
   "STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY." Any structure to serve a use temporarily, such as a
field or sales office, contractor's office, or trailer sign.
   "SUBDIVISION." The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of the transfer
of ownership, and includes all cases where the subdivider advocates, proposes,
suggests, or exhibits a proposed plan, map, or plat of development of land. The
word "SUBDIVISION" includes re-subdivision, and, when appropriate to the
context, shall mean the process of subdivision or the land subdivided. Whenever
a final plat and site plan has been approved by the City Commission, and the
plat and site plan reflects the location of multiplex structures with proposed
lot divisions which may be utilized by the developer to convey a fee simple
title to each individual and separate unit of the multiplex structure, the
subsequent conveyance of title to any such separate unit including the
underlying land shall not constitute a subdivision or re-subdivision.
   "SURVEY DATA." All information shown on the face of a plat that would
delineate the physical boundaries of the subdivision and any parts thereof.
   "SWIMMING POOL." Any confined body of water, located either above or below
the existing finished grade of the site, exceeding 150 square feet in surface
area and two feet in depth, designed, used, or intended to be used for swimming
or bathing purposes. Swimming pools located at finished grade shall not be
considered as lot coverage unless totally enclosed by a semi-opaque or opaque
obstruction. All swimming pools must adhere to the regulations of
Chapter 155, Appendix G.
   "TOWNHOUSE." A single-family dwelling unit constructed as a part of a series
of dwellings, all of which are either attached to the adjacent dwelling or
dwellings by party walls or are located immediately adjacent there to with no
visible separation between walls or roofs. The term “TOWNHOUSE” shall include
the term “ROWHOUSE.” A townhouse unit and the lot on which it is located may be
individually owned. Each “TOWNHOUSE” unit shall be constructed on a separate
platted lot; provided, however, that the roof lines may overhang onto adjacent
lots or common areas with the approval of the Zoning Administrator. Each
“TOWNHOUSE” unit shall be serviced with separate utilities and other facilities
and shall otherwise be independent of one another, except where approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
   “TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (TDR).” A program offered by the City of
Lake Mary that allows for the purchase of development rights (dwelling units)
from city-owned properties located within the boundaries of the Downtown
Development District. The purchased dwelling units may be utilized on property
having either DDD/TOD overlay land use or DDD/TOD/DEPI land use and DC
(Downtown Centre) or PUD (Planned Unit Development) zoning. The resultant
density of the residential development may exceed the maximum density permitted
in the DDD land use designation with the final decision to be made by the City
Commission based on compatibility with adjacent development.
   “TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS RECEIVING SITE.” The property within the
downtown where the proposed TDR dwelling units are to be developed.
   “TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS SENDING SITE.” The city owned property from
which the TDR dwelling units are taken.
   “TRANSIT STOP.” A LYNX designated bus stop located on LYNX route 45 with a
covered structure providing protection from the elements and seating to
accommodate a minimum of two people, and the SunRail Commuter Rail Station. To
be considered a transit stop, the stop and/or station shall be serviced with
transit frequencies of 30 minutes or less during off-peak hours.
   “TRUCK STOP.” An establishment where the principal use is primarily the
refueling and servicing of trucks and tractor-trailer rigs. These
establishments may have restaurants or snack bars and sleeping accommodations
for the drivers of over-the-road equipment, and may provide facilities for the
repair and maintenance of such equipment.
   “UNIFIED CONTROL.” Means all land within a qualifying development, pursuant
to F.S. § 166.04151(7), must be under the control of the applicant (an
individual, partnership, or corporation, or group of individuals, partnerships,
or corporations). The applicant shall present satisfactory legal documents to
constitute evidence of the unified control of the entire area, which shall be
approved by the city attorney.
   "USE."
      (1)   The purpose for which land, water, or a structure thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended to be occupied or utilized, or for which it
is occupied or maintained.
         (a)   "USES AND STRUCTURES ACCESSORY." A use or structure that is
incidental, related, appropriate, and clearly subordinate to the main use of
the lot or building and unless otherwise provided, on the same premises. The
accessory use shall not alter the principal use of the subject lot or
significantly affect other properties in the district. An accessory use or
structure may include such uses or structures as an implement shed, barbeque
pit, garden or ornamental landscape structure, garden/green house, gazebo, play
structure, remote TV receiver, satellite dish, antenna, a structure used for
human habitation, commerce, and for the parking of motor vehicles.
         (b)   "USE, CONDITIONAL." A use, either public or private, which
because of its unique characteristics cannot be permitted by right within a
district, but which is allowed subject to certain conditions enumerated in §§
154.70 through
154.73.
         (c)   "USE, INCOMPATIBLE." Uses which differ to such an extent in
character and intensity that major conflicts arise between them in terms of
traffic generation, noise, and aesthetics.
         (d)   "USE, NONCONFORMING." Any use of a building or structure, any
use of land or water, any lot, site development, or improvement which lawfully
existed prior to the enactment of the zoning regulations, but which now fails
to conform to all applicable provisions of the zoning regulations.
         (e)   "USE, PERMITTED." A use which may be established by right in a
particular district, provided that it conforms to all of the requirements and
regulations of that district.
      (2)   The words "USED" or "OCCUPIED" include the words "INTENDED,"
"DESIGNED," or "ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED."
   “UTILITY POLE.” A pole or other similar structure that is used in whole or
in part to provide communication services or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function. The term includes
the vertical support structure for traffic lights but does not include a
horizontal structure to which signal lights or other traffic control device are
attached and does not include a pole or similar structure 15 feet in height or
less unless the city grants a waiver for the pole. The term does not include a
“UTILITY POLE” owned by the city. This definition does not include electric
transmission poles. For purposes of these regulations, “UTILITY POLES” shall be
classified as the following types:
      (1)   “EXISTING UTILITY POLE.” A “UTILITY POLE” within the rights-of-way
that exists at the time an application to place attachments on that “UTILITY
POLE,” such as a communications facility, is filed with the city.
      (2)   “NEW UTILITY POLE.” A “UTILITY POLE” that does not exist within the
rights-of-way at the time an application to place a communications facility on
that “UTILITY POLE” is filed with the city, is proposed to be installed to
support the proposed communications facility, and is not a replacement “UTILITY
POLE.”
      (3)   “REPLACEMENT UTILITY POLE.” An existing “UTILITY POLE” that has
been renovated, reconfigured, or replaced with a similar structure so as to
continue serving its primary existing purpose while also supporting the
attachment of communications facilities that is approximately in the same
location and serving the same function as the existing structure and in such a
manner that does not result in a net increase in the number of “UTILITY POLES”
located within the public rights-of-way, does not interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular access and complies with applicable codes. The “REPLACEMENT UTILITY
POLE” remains the property of the owner of the existing structure prior to the
repurposing, unless ownership otherwise lawfully changes.
   "VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION, SITE PLANS, AND APPENDICES TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
CODE." As used in Chapters
155 and
156 and all appendices thereto, a variance is a modification of the required
terms of those chapters and appendices where the variance will not be contrary
to the public interest and where, owing to the conditions peculiar to the
property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship;
or where the variance will allow for the construction of improvements in
conformity with the intent of the subdivision regulations while providing
improved design standards within the subdivision.
   "VARIANCE, ZONING." As used in connection with provisions dealing with
zoning, a variance is a modification of the terms of the zoning regulations
where variance will not be contrary to the public interest, and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this chapter a zoning variance is authorized
only for height, area, and size of structure, or size of yards and open spaces.
Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed
by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of the presence of
nonconformities in the zoning district or classification, or adjoining zoning
districts or classifications.
   "VETERINARY HOSPITAL." Any structure or premises used primarily and
essentially for the medical and surgical care of ill, disabled, or injured
animals other than humans. Kennels shall be allowed only as an accessory use
and only in soundproof structures.
   "VOLUME." Occupied space measured in cubic units.
   "WATER QUALITY." The characteristics of water as set forth in Chapter 17-3,
Florida Administrative Code, together with physical, chemical, and biological
characteristics of water that affect the propagation of fish, wildlife, aquatic
plants, and animals.
   "WATER RETENTION STRUCTURE." A facility which provides for storage of storm
water runoff.
   "WATER RETENTION STRUCTURE, WATER MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE." A facility which
provides for storage of storm water runoff and the controlled release of runoff
during and after a flood or storm.
   "WATERS." Shall include, but not be limited to, rivers, lakes, streams,
springs, impoundments, and all other waters or bodies of water, whether surface
or subsurface, and whether navigable or non-navigable. The term shall encompass
all bottom lands lying below the mean-high-water mark, whether those bottom
lands are submerged or not.
   "WATER SUPPLY, INDIVIDUAL." A water source, distribution system, and other
appurtenances supplying only one lot.
   "WATER SYSTEM." Any plant, wells, pipes, tanks, reservoirs, system,
facility, or property used, useful, or having the present capacity for future
use in connection with the obtaining and supplying of water for human
consumption, fire protection, irrigation, consumption by business, or
consumption by industry; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing
definition, shall embrace all necessary appurtenances and equipment, and shall
include all property, rights, easements, and franchises relating to any such
system and deemed necessary or convenient for the operation thereof.
   "WETLANDS." Swamps and wet woodlands, characterized by specific vegetational
types and plant communities, whether flooded at all times, flooded only
seasonably, or having a water table within six inches of the ground surface for
at least three months of the year.
   “WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.” Any equipment or facility used for the
transmission or reception of wireless communications. This term includes but is
not limited to wireless support structures, antennas, cabling, regular and
backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration (including distributed antenna systems (“DAS”) and small cell
networks). For purposes of this definition, the term shall not include
communication towers.
   “WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.” A freestanding structure, such as a monopole,
a guyed or self-supporting tower, or another existing or proposed structure
designed to support or capable of supporting wireless communication facilities.
The term does not include a utility pole, pedestal, or other support structure
for ground-based equipment not mounted on a utility pole and less than five
feet in height.
   "YARD." Required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward; however, fences, walls, hedges, poles,
posts, children's play equipment, and other customary yard accessories,
ornaments, statuary, and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to
height limitations and requirements limiting obstructions to visibility.
      (1)   "FRONT." A yard extended between side lot lines across the front of
a lot adjoining a street. Depth of a required front yard shall be measured at
right angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of the side lot
lines. (See also "LOT FRONTAGE.")
      (2)   "REAR." A yard extending across the rear of the lot between inner
side yard lines. In the case of through lots, there will be no rear yards, only
front and side yards.
      (3)   “SIDE.” A yard extending from the interior (rear) line of the
required front yard to the rear lot line; or, in the case of corner or through
lots, the yards remaining after front yards have been established.
   "ZONED." As it has been traditionally defined, the division of the city into
areas or districts that specify allowable uses for real property and
restrictions on the size and placement of buildings within these areas or
districts, all as set out in the land development code, as directed in the
policies of the comprehensive plan.
   “100 PERCENT CLEAR ZONE.” The requirement that in the event of a tower
failure, the entire height of the tower would fall completely within the
boundaries of the property on which it is located.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 343, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 345, passed
12-3-87; Am. Ord. 361, passed 3-17-88; Am. Ord. 364, passed 4-7-88; Am. Ord.
369, passed 5-5-88; Am. Ord. 447, passed 8-3-89; Am. Ord. 484, passed 1-18-90;
Am. Ord. 503, passed 5-17-90; Am. Ord. 542, passed 4-18-91; Am. Ord. 583,
passed 1-16-92; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 718, passed 10-6-94; Am.
Ord. 762, passed 8-24-95; Am. Ord. 783, passed 3-21-96; Am. Ord. 802, passed 9-
5-96; Am. Ord. 817, passed 2-6-97; Am. Ord. 829, passed 3-6-97; Am. Ord. 836,
passed 4-3-97; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-18-97; Am. Ord. 869, passed 2-19-98; Am.
Ord. 874, passed 3-19-98; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-26-99; Am. Ord. 1120, passed
3-4-04; Am. Ord. 1147, passed 10-7-04; Am. Ord. 1297, passed 8-21-08; Am. Ord.
1341, passed 1-21-10; Am. Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 12-
20-12; Am. Ord. 1488, passed 7-18-13; Am. Ord. 1499, passed 12-5-13; Am. Ord.
1501, passed 12-19-13; Am. Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14; Am. Ord. 1567, passed 6-
15-17; Am. Ord. 1611, passed 9-19-19; Am. Ord. 1616, passed 11-21-19; Am. Ord.
1618, passed 3-5-20; Am. Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20; Am. Ord. 1681, passed 4-20-
23; Am. Ord. 1685, passed 6-29-23; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.10 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Within the districts established by these zoning regulations or
amendments that may later be adopted, there may exist lots, structures, uses of
land or water and structures, and characteristics of uses which were lawful
before these zoning regulations were adopted or amended, but which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of these zoning
regulations or future amendments. It is the intent of these zoning regulations
to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are voluntarily removed
as required by these zoning regulations, but not to encourage their survival. A
nonconformity may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided
that:
      (1)   Enlargement, increase, intensification, alteration. No
nonconforming use shall be enlarged, intensified, increased in height, or
extended to occupy a greater area of land or water than was occupied at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations.
      (2)   Movement. No nonconforming use or structure shall be moved in whole
or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the
use at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations.
      (3)   Discontinuance. If any nonconforming use ceases for any reason
(except when governmental action impedes access to the premises) for a period
of more than three consecutive months, or for more than six months during a
two-year period, any subsequent use of that land shall conform to the
regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the district in which
that land is located.
      (4)   Destruction. Should any nonconforming structure or nonconforming
portion of structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of
its replacement value at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of these zoning regulations. In
connection with any outdoor advertising sign regulated by F.S. Chapter 479, the
sign shall only be considered destroyed if it is destroyed within the meaning
of F.S. Chapter 479 and Rule 14-10.007(6)(a), Florida Administrative Code.
      (5)   Subdivision or structural additions. No land in nonconforming use
shall be subdivided, nor shall any structures be added on the land except for
the purposes and in a manner conforming to the regulations for the district in
which the land is located. However, subdivision may be made which does not
increase the degree of nonconformity of the use.
      (6)   Change in tenancy or ownership. There may be a change in tenancy,
ownership, or management of a nonconforming use, provided there is no change in
the nature or character of the nonconforming use.
      (7)   Unsafe nonconforming structures because of lack of maintenance. If
a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure, or any structure
containing a nonconforming use, becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to
lack of repairs or maintenance, and is declared by the duly authorized official
of the city to be unsafe or unlawful by reason of its physical condition, it
shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (8)   Casual, temporary, or illegal use. The casual, temporary, or
illegal use of land or structures, or land and structures in combination, shall
not be sufficient to establish the existence of a nonconforming use or to
create rights in the continuance of such use.
   (B)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in these zoning regulations shall be
deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations and upon which actual
building construction has been carried on diligently. Such construction shall
be completed within the time period specified in the building permit originally
granted for the construction.
   (C)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected,
expanded, or altered on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations, notwithstanding limitations
imposed by other provisions of these zoning regulations. The lot must be in
separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same
ownership. This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area or width, or both, shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is vacated. Variance of yard requirements shall be
obtained only through action of the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (D)   Any provisions of §§
154.63 through
154.66 and
157.03 of this code which shall cause existing shopping centers to become
nonconforming shall not operate or act to preclude the ability of the owners of
nonconforming shopping centers to make such alterations to any shopping center
structure existing on the effective date of this section as same may be
necessary to accommodate the needs of existing or future tenants of the
shipping center provided that the uses of individual tenants comply with all
other applicable codes of the city and do not require an increase in square
footage of height of the existing structure.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-6-90; Am. Ord. 1499, passed
12-5-13; Am. Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.11 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary structures, including mobile homes and travel trailers, may
be used as construction field offices and tool sheds and sales offices when
accessory to the development of a subdivision or site plan and subject to the
following regulations:
      (1)   Use shall be temporary and shall expire when 90% of the subdivision
is completed, or within 18 months, whichever comes first.
      (2)   In the case of individual permanent structures (site plans), this
temporary use shall not exceed one year, or ten days after completion of the
permanent structure, whichever comes first.
      (3)   Permits for temporary structures shall be obtained from the
Building Division. When these permits expire, they may be renewed by the
Building Division for a period not to exceed one 90-day period. Upon expiration
of any permit for a temporary structure, the structure shall be removed from
the premises.
   (B)   Temporary structures, including model homes, mobile homes, and travel
trailers, may be used as sales offices for a subdivision in a residential
district. Such sales offices shall not include sales of real estate outside the
subdivision, and are subject to the above regulations.
   (C)   Temporary structure including mobile homes, travel trailers and
modular structures may be used as government offices. Such offices may be used
for the necessary day to day services a government entity provides. The
temporary structure shall be required to obtain conditional use and/or site
plan approval in accordance with the zoning district regulations governing the
property and also subject to the following:
      (1)   Use shall be temporary and shall expire within 18 months from the
date of issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, unless a new conditional use
and/or site plan is approved by the City Commission for a time period not to
exceed 12 months.
      (2)   The temporary structure shall be located on the site in accordance
with underlying zoning district setbacks for the property and published safety
standards.
      (3)   Due to the temporary nature of the use, the City Commission may
defer landscaping requirements and paved parking.
      (4)   The use shall be provided with all applicable required
infrastructure and comply with all applicable building codes.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 697, passed 6-2-94; Am. Ord. 911, passed
12-17-98) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.12 LAKES AND LAKEFRONT PROPERTY.
   The city reaffirms its authority to regulate and control the use and
occupancy of lakes and lake bottoms within the corporate limits, in the
interest of benefiting the health, welfare, safety, and convenience of its
citizens. For these purposes and to maintain a healthy water quality, the
following regulations shall apply to all lakefront property in addition to all
other zoning district requirements. The area within the Big Lake Mary overlay
zoning district shall also comply with the provisions of §
154.90.
   (A)   All lakefront development must maintain a 200-foot buffer area from
the mean-high-water line to any building or pavement area except in the case of
a single- family development, where there shall be a minimum lot size of 40,000
square feet and a minimum lakefront setback of 75 feet from the mean-high-water
line. The septic tank and drainfield must be located in the front yard.
   (B)    Docking facilities. For the purpose of this section, the term docking
facility shall mean any fixed or floating structure, dock or boathouse or
shelter providing access on or over submerged lands (all those lands waterward
of the MHWL (mean high water line) and the area occupied by that docking
facility. Watercraft are defined as any boat, vehicle or vessel designed for
operation as recreation and/or transportation over or under the surface of a
waterbody or lake which is propelled by oars, sails, or one or more internal
combustion engines.
      (1)   Docking facilities may be erected within the buffer/setback area,
subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   The maximum length of a docking facility shall include those
areas of the facility that occupy or cause to occupy the affected water surface
waterward of the mean high water line (MHWL) and shall not exceed 75 feet in
length as measured from the MHWL.
         (b)   No docking facility may occupy or cause to occupy more than 25%
of any waterway width as measured at the location of the docking facility,
excluding forested wetland and/or cypress areas. The waterway width with
respect to any dock to which the measurement applies is the straight line
distance from the point at which the centerline of the docking facility
intersects the MHWL of the opposite shore of the waterway. If forested cypress
areas exist on either or both shorelines waterward of the MHWL, then the
distance shall be measured from the most waterward edge of those cypress.
         (c)   No docking facility may be located in such a manner as to impede
normal navigation.
         (d)   Access to docking facilities through any shore line protection
zone area including cypress and or wet land communities shall comply with the
applicable provisions which protect these resources in keeping with the Lake
Mary Comprehensive Plan and code of ordinances, including but not limited to
the following:
            1.   Run-off. All new development, redevelopment of existing lots,
additions to existing structures and the construction of accessory structures
shall provide on-site stormwater retention, per code.
            2.   During construction of all new development, redevelopment of
existing lots, additions to existing structures and the construction of
accessory structures, the owner of the property shall install silt fence and/or
any other means of erosion control approved by the city to prevent the run-off
of sediments.
            3.   During construction, at least once a week, the city shall
inspect the construction site and the silt/erosion control measures to ensure
that such measures are in place and functioning as they are designed. If such
measures are found to be operating at less than optimal level, the city shall
require the contractor and/or owner of the property to take such actions as are
necessary to return the silt control measures back to optimal efficiency. If
such measures are not taken in what the city determines to be a timely manner,
the city may issue a "Stop Work Order" for the subject property.
            4.   All permits for work on lots shall be accompanied by a survey
that clearly shows the type and location of all soils, the location of all
wetlands, the 100-year flood elevation and the mean high water elevation.
            5.   Wetlands shall be delineated by a professional biologist,
ecologist or other consultant, approved by the city.
            6.   Except as permitted by the St. Johns River Water Management
District and/or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, existing
wetlands shall not be removed, reduced in size by mowing and/or other
mechanical means, impacted and/or degraded by chemical application.
             7.   Except as permitted by the St. Johns River Water Management
District and/or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the
construction of docks, as permitted in this section, shall not encroach into,
remove and/or impact existing wetlands.
            8.   Except as permitted by the City Engineer, the maximum slope of
any lot for new development and/or redevelopment shall not exceed 4 to 1.
             9.   At the time of permitting, the plans shall be checked to
ensure that the proposed development complies with the maximum allowable
grades.
            10.   Prior to the approval of the certificate of occupancy (CO),
staff shall verify that the grades of the property do or do not comply with
grades shown on the approved plans.
         (e)   If state or federal permission is required for the erection of
any docking facility, that permission shall be presented in writing to the
building official prior to the issuance of any building permit for the docking
facility. The agencies may include, but are not limited to, the Department of
Natural Resources, Department of Environmental Regulation and/or the Army Corp
of Engineers.
         (f)   The mooring of watercraft at a docking facility shall be
restricted to watercrafts registered to the adjacent upland property owner, the
upland property owner's guests and neighbors.
         (g)   No more than three watercraft shall be moored at any docking
facility.
         (h)   Docking facilities must be located in such a manner as to avoid
the need for dredging.
         (i)   There shall be a minimum side setback of ten feet from adjacent
properties and any docking facility must be placed on owner's property,
waterward and landward.
         (j)   Docking facilities are recognized as accessory uses to a primary
use of the adjacent upland property. As such, no docking facility shall be
constructed prior to the establishment of a primary use, except for single
docking facilities on single family zoned lots when allowed by the zoning.
         (k)   Docking facilities shall be constructed in a manner that will
withstand a 100 M.P.H. wind load. Top of the deck of a docking facility shall
be at least one foot above MHWL and no greater than five feet above MHWL.
         (l)   No boat, floathouse or other watercraft shall be used as a
dwelling, nor shall any docking facility be used for dwelling purposes or
contain any overnight sleeping or living accommodations, or any permanent
cooking or restroom (bathroom) facilities with the exception of outdoor showers
or faucets.
         (m)   No docking facility shall have any provision for retail or
wholesale sales of any kind. All proposed docking facilities' activities must
be water- dependant and must not be contrary to the public interest, laws, or
ordinances.
         (n)   Unsafe or unsightly watercraft or docking facilities may result
in conditions that are unhealthy, unsafe, unsightly, or a blight upon the
neighborhood and community at large. All boats or watercraft moored or docked
in any waterway or waterbody of the city shall be maintained in good order and
repair. All docking facilities, likewise, shall be maintained in good order and
repair. The Code Enforcement Officer or Building Official shall have the
authority to inspect any watercraft or docking facility for the purpose of
determining whether it is safe and in good order and repair.
         (o)   No more than one docking facility shall be permitted for each
single-family residence on a waterfront lot.
         (p)   Docks.
            1.    A dock shall be defined as any decking, posts, or pilings,
not covered for boat or storage shelter, which extends into a waterbody. It may
be floating or fixed to the shore or waterbody's bottom.
            2.   Maximum dock area, 300 square feet waterward of the MHWL (mean
high water line)
            3.   Maximum dock height above MLWL (mean low water line), five
feet.
         (q)   Boathouses (boatshelters).
            1.    Boathouses may be permitted in association with a dock
provided that the structure is no greater than 500 square feet in area and is
no greater than 20 feet in height, at its highest point, above the adjacent
access dock or MHWL, whichever is greater.
            2.    The construction of roofed structures, other than boathouses
or boatshelters, on or over any docking facility or navigable waterway is not
permitted.
            3.    The roof of any boathouse shall be pitched with at least a 2
to 1 slope. No flat roofs or sun decks are permitted.
            4.    Any decking within the boathouse shall not apply to the 300
square foot maximum for dock area but shall not exceed 200 square feet,
including any storage area.
            5.   Enclosed storage area within a boathouse may not exceed 80
square feet.
      (2)   Nonconforming docking facilities and boathouses. Where a lawful
docking facility or boathouse exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this section that could not be built under the terms of this
section by reason of restrictions on area, height, length, location, or other
requirements, such structure may continue to exist so long as it otherwise
remains lawful and is maintained in good repair, subject to the following
provisions:
         (a)   No nonconforming docking facility or boathouse may be enlarged
or altered in a way to increase its nonconformity.
         (b)   Should such docking facility or boathouse be moved for any
reason for any distance, it shall thereafter be in conformance with these
regulations.
         (c)   Routine maintenance is permitted including the replacement of
decking surface. The replacement, moving or removal of 50% or more of the
existing pilings is not considered maintenance and any such activity must only
be conducted in accordance with this section.
   (C)   All lakefront development shall be subject to subdivision regulations
or site plan approval in accordance with Chapters
155 and
156. Additional drainage, landscape, access, and boat traffic regulations may
be imposed to protect or enhance the water quality of the lake in question, and
to insure the safety and security of lake front residents and all citizens of
the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 679, passed 3-3-94; Am. Ord. 1282, passed
3-6-08) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.13 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Application. Any person, firm, or corporation wishing to sell or
dispense any alcoholic beverages within the city shall make written application
for a city business tax receipt accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Evidence that the applicant holds, or will hold upon issuance of
the business tax receipt, a valid, current state beverage license.
      (2)   Evidence that the establishment at which the alcoholic beverages
will be sold or dispensed meets all local zoning, land use and locational
criteria.
   (B)   Reporting requirements. Any person, firm, or corporation issued a
business tax receipt for a restaurant or retail establishment with incidental
alcoholic beverage sales shall file a report with the city. The reporting
period shall be from January through June, and from June through December, or
fraction thereof. No later than July 15 and January 15, business owners shall
provide documentation of the revenues in the previous six-month reporting
period, based on the formula set forth in §
154.09, under the definition of “Semiannual Percentage of Alcohol Sales.” It
shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation holding a business tax
receipt for a restaurant or for a retail establishment with incidental
alcoholic beverage sales to fail to comply with the reporting requirements
stated above.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the reporting requirements stated above
shall result in penalties as provided in §
154.999.
      (2)   If the semi-annual average percentage of alcoholic beverage sales
exceeds the maximum percentage allowed by this code, as noted on the business
tax receipt, the holder of the receipt shall be notified in writing that he or
she has six months to comply with the requirements of this code in respect to
sales ratios or be subject to revocation of that receipt.
      (3)   Drive-in businesses which serve alcoholic beverages for the
consumption on premises and bottle clubs as defined in this chapter shall also
be subject to the distance, zoning, reporting, and licensing requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Separation requirements.
      (1)   Restaurants, as defined by this chapter, which have a DC, Downtown
Centre, zoning designation, shall have no separation
requirements from churches, schools, single- family residential, other
restaurants and/or alcoholic beverage establishments.
      (2)   Craft breweries, and beer gardens, as defined by this chapter,
which have a DC, Downtown Centre, zoning designation, shall have a 300-foot
separation requirement from other craft breweries, and beer gardens, and a 500-
foot separation requirement from churches; schools; and single-family
residential that is not within the Downtown Development District.
      (3)   Bars/cocktail lounges, as defined by this chapter. which have a DC,
Downtown Centre, zoning designation, shall have a 500-foot separation
requirements from other alcoholic beverage establishments, and a 1,000-foot
separation from churches; schools; and single-family residential that is not
within the Downtown Development District.
      (4)   Restaurants which serve alcohol for consumption on premises as
defined by this chapter with a zoning designation other than DC, Downtown
Centre, shall have a minimum separation of 300 feet from any church, school, or
single-family residential zoning district or land use which permits single-
family residential development. This separation may be lessened to 200 feet
from single-family residential if there is no bar or no outdoor seating.
      (5)   Retail establishments with incidental alcoholic beverage sales as
defined by this chapter shall have no separation requirements from churches,
residential zoning, restaurants, and alcoholic beverage establishments or other
retail establishments with incidental alcoholic beverage sales. There shall be
a 500-foot separation from schools.
      (6)   All other alcoholic beverage establishments and/or bottle clubs as
defined by this chapter, not already outlined in the above regulations, shall
have a minimum separation of 1,000 feet from churches, and schools. Alcoholic
beverage establishments and/or bottle clubs shall have a minimum separation of
500 feet from any single-family residential zoning district or land use which
permits single-family residential development or from another alcoholic
beverage establishment and/or bottle club.
      (7)   Retail establishments with package sales of alcoholic beverages
shall have no separation requirements from churches, schools, other restaurants
and/or other alcoholic beverage establishments.   
   (D)   Measuring separation requirements. The following methodology shall be
utilized when determining the required separation, per division (C)(2) and (4)
above.
      (1)   Measurements from schools, churches, and single-family residential
areas shall be in accordance with division (C) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Measurements between two alcoholic beverage establishments or
bottle clubs shall be measured from the nearest exterior point of each
establishment’s nearest exterior weight bearing wall.
         (b)   If alcoholic beverages are served or consumed outdoors by one or
both establishments then the distance shall be measured from the nearest point
of any area designated for the serving or consumption of alcohol if that
distance is greater than the distance as measured in division (D)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   Establishments which serve alcoholic beverages within the principal
structure, courtyard, or pool area of an approved hotel or motel site shall be
exempt from the separation requirements between like establishments.
      (4)   Measurements between an alcoholic beverage establishment and a
school, church, or single-family residential area shall be measured from the
alcoholic beverage establishment’s nearest weight bearing wall to the nearest
weight bearing wall of the school, church or residence. For vacant property
zoned single-family residential, measurement shall be from the alcoholic
beverage establishment’s nearest weight bearing wall to the property boundary
line of the property zoned single-family residential.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 718, passed 10-6-94; Am. Ord. 1341, passed
1-21-10; Am. Ord. 1616, passed 11-21-19) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.14 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Requirements for all accessory structures.
      (1)   Submittal of a building permit application is required for all
accessory structures. A building permit or zoning approval must be obtained
prior to construction and/or installation.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit building plans for the accessory
structure, including a sketch showing the proposed
location of the accessory structure within the yard, setback dimensions,
building height, proposed use, and impervious surface ratio. Upon compliance
with all applicable codes, the city shall issue a building permit for the
accessory structure, however accessory structures exempt from the Florida
Building Code will receive only zoning approval.
         (b)   Accessory structures that have utility hookups shall require
additional building permits as applicable.
      (2)   All of the following shall be considered accessory structures,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Private garages;
         (b)   Accessory structures for human habitation, including garage
apartments or guest houses, as permitted in the applicable zoning districts and
if otherwise in compliance with code requirements for human habitation;
         (c)   Accessory structures used for home-based businesses;
         (d)   Pool cabanas/houses;
         (e)   Tool or implement sheds;
         (f)   Pergolas/gazebo;
         (g)   Covered parking/carport;
         (h)   Barbeque pit or outdoor/summer kitchen;
         (i)   Garden or ornamental landscape structure, garden/green house;
         (j)   Play structure; and
         (k)   Mechanical units.
      (3)   An accessory use or structure shall not be located in the following
areas:
         (a)   Front yards, including yards facing side streets;
         (b)   Any easement located on the lot.
      (4)   No accessory structure shall be located closer than 25 feet to the
mean high water line of any lake except for docks and docking facilities, as
set forth in §
154.12.
      (5)   No accessory structure shall be located within a Wetland Protection
Zone, as defined in §
160.02.
      (6)   No accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal
building.
      (7)   A separate structure attached to the principal building by a
roofline or breezeway and the like, shall be considered an accessory structure
and subject to the requirements established herein.
      (8)   Distances between accessory structures and the principal building
must be compliant with the current Florida Building Code.
      (9)   No accessory structure shall be constructed prior to construction
of the principal building.
      (10)   Any accessory structure located on a corner lot shall comply with
minimum side yard setbacks after the front yards have been established as set
forth in §
154.09.
      (11)   The cumulative floor area of all accessory structures located on
the lot shall not exceed the floor area of the principal building, without
including in the calculation of the floor area of the principal building any
carports, garages, porte cocheres, breezeways, or screened or open porches.
   (B)   Categories and standards for accessory structures.
      (1)   Accessory structures less than 400 square feet and less than eight
foot height shall have a minimum setback of four feet. If any portion of the
accessory structure exceeds eight feet in height, then the entire structure
shall be setback an additional one foot for every one foot of height which
exceeds eight feet.
      (2)   Accessory structures 400 square feet and greater shall comply with
the following:
         (a)   Shall be architecturally compatible with the principal building.
An accessory structure shall include a minimum of three of the following
elements to be considered architecturally compatible with the principal
building: matching exterior colors including trim, matching structural and
vertical articulation, matching facade material, matching window(s) occupying
20% of the area of the primary facade facing the right-of-way and 10% of the
other facades (secondary facade requirement for building lengths larger than 20
feet only);
         (b)   Shall meet the minimum setbacks of the zoning district in which
they are located unless otherwise stated herein; and
         (c)   If any portion of the accessory structure exceeds 12 feet in
height, then the entire accessory structure shall be setback an additional one
foot for every one foot of height which exceeds 12 feet, without exceeding the
height of the principal building.
      (3)   Mechanical units including, but not limited to, air conditioner
units, pool pumps, heat pumps, and the like.
         (a) Cannot be located in any required front yard or easements.
         (b) Must comply with the setbacks of the zoning district in which they
are located.
            1.   If screened from view of adjacent property owners and rights-
of-way by landscaping, or other approved screening treatment, then it may be
located no closer than three feet from any side or rear property line as long
as it is not located within an easement.
   (C) Garage apartments (as allowed in combination with garages) and guest
houses.
      (1) The structure containing the private garage and the garage apartment
or guest house may not exceed the height of the principal building.
      (2) Garage apartments or guest houses shall have a minimum floor area of
600 square feet. The maximum floor area shall not exceed 25% of the floor area
of the principal dwelling, without including in the calculation of the floor
area of the principal dwelling any carports, garages, porte cocheres,
breezeways and screened or open porches.
      (3) The minimum yard requirements (setbacks) that apply to the principal
building shall also apply to the guest house and/or the structure containing
the garage apartment.
      (4)   A minimum of one off- street parking space shall be provided for a
garage apartment or guest house which is located on the same lot or parcel and
served by the same driveway as the principal dwelling. This space shall be
paved or improved with a stabilized surface acceptable to the City Engineer.
      (5) A structure containing a garage apartment or guest house shall have
unity of title with the principal dwelling and the garage apartment or guest
house shall not be subdivided from the lot on which the principal building is
located.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 349, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 484, passed
1-8-90; Am. Ord. 829, passed 3-6-97; Am. Ord. 874, passed 3-19-98; Am. Ord.
1014, passed 2-1-01; Am. Ord. 1059, passed 4-18-02; Am. Ord. 1076, passed 10-3-
02; Am. Ord. 1297, passed 8-21-08; Am. Ord. 1701, passed 5-2-24) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.15 POLES, TOWERS, ANTENNAS, AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   Purpose and intent. The regulations and requirements of this section are
intended to:
      (1)   Provide for the appropriate location and development of
communication towers, antennas, and wireless communication facilities to serve
the residents and businesses of the city;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers, communication antennas,
and wireless communication facilities through careful design, siting, and
vegetative screening;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower,
communication antennas, and wireless communication facility failure through
engineering and careful siting of tower, antenna structures, and wireless
communication facilities; and
      (4)   Maximize use of any new or existing communication tower to reduce
the number of towers needed.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   All new communication towers, antennas, amateur radio towers, and
wireless communication facilities, including those located on privately owned
and publicly owned property, in city, county, or state public rights-of-way,
and in public easements within the corporate limits of the city, shall be
subject to these regulations and all other applicable regulations.
      (2)   All communication towers legally existing on August 20, 2020 (the
effective date of Ordinance No. 1625) shall be considered permitted uses,
allowed to continue their usage as they presently exist; provided however,
except for eligible facilities requests in accordance with division (E), or
routine maintenance, including without limitation, structural modifications
including provisions for additional antennas or additional providers and/or new
construction on an existing communication tower, shall comply with the
requirements of division (C)(3), with the exception of separation distances.
Routine maintenance which does not otherwise qualify as an eligible facilities
request shall be permitted on such existing towers upon issuance of a building
permit. For purposes of this section, “ROUTINE MAINTENANCE” shall mean ordinary
repairs and incidental alterations for maintenance purposes no greater than 20%
of the current assessed valuation of the structure, provided that no structural
alterations shall be made except those required by law.
      (3)   All government towers and wireless communication facilities with
public safety systems or equipment shall be exempt from the requirements of
divisions (C) and (D).
   (C)   Communication towers and antennas.
      (1)   Permitted uses and conditional uses.
         (a)   Guyed, lattice and self-support communication towers are
prohibited within the city limits.
         (b)   Monopole communication towers and communication antennas are
permitted as follows:
            1.   Monopole communication towers and communication antennas are a
permitted use in all zoning districts provided that the structures do not
exceed the established height limitation.
            2.   Monopole communication towers and communication antennas which
exceed the established height limitation are a conditional use in C-1, C-2, M-
1A, M-2A and nonresidential PUD zoning districts.
            3.   Monopole communication towers and communication antennas which
exceed the established height limitation in all zoning districts other than C-
1, C-2, M-1A and M-2A, are prohibited.
            4.   Communication towers and communication antennas which exceed
200 feet in height are prohibited within the city.
            5.   Monopole communication towers and antennas constructed
pursuant to this section shall be exempt from the minimum separation distances
between towers established in Table 2.
         (c)   Rooftop-mounted monopole communication towers or antennas may be
approved as a conditional use in any C-1, C-2, M-1A, and M-2A zoning district
or within any nonresidential PUD subject to the following:
            1.   The height of the tower or antenna does not extend more than
15 feet above the average height of the roof line;
            2.   The building is at least two stories in height;
            3.   Screening, if appropriate, may be required to minimize the
visual impact of a proposed tower or antenna upon adjacent properties;
            4.   A roof-mounted monopole tower must be set back from the edge
of the roof a minimum of 15 feet;
            5.   Roof-mounted monopole communication towers and antennas
constructed pursuant to this section shall be exempt from the minimum distances
from residential zoning districts established in Table 1.
         (d)   Additional uses permitted on site.
            1.   Monopole communication towers may be located on sites
containing another principal use in the same buildable area. Monopole
communication towers may occupy a leased parcel on a site meeting the minimum
lot size requirement for the zoning district in which it is located. When joint
use of a lot is permitted, the city shall require the execution of a unity of
title if two or more lots are utilized for setback purposes or to prohibit the
unlawful division of a lot containing a tower and another principal use. The
minimum distance between a monopole communication tower and other principal
uses located on the same lot are indicated in Table 1. This separation between
monopole communication towers and other on-site principal uses is required to
assure compatibility of land uses and to provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of individuals and structures occupying the same structures.
            2.   The City Commission or City Manager, as appropriate, shall
prohibit the joint use of a site when a proposed or existing principal use
includes the storage, distribution, or sale of volatile, flammable, explosive,
or hazardous wastes such as LP gas, propane, gasoline, natural gas, and
corrosive or dangerous chemicals.
      (2)   Collocation of communication antenna on existing tower or other
structure. Additional antennas, reception or transmission dishes, or other
similar receiving or transmitting devices proposed for attachment to an
existing communication tower will require building permit review and review for
compliance with F.S. § 365.172 and this section. To encourage collocation, a
conditional use permit shall not be required. The intent of this requirement is
to ensure the structural integrity, visual aesthetics, and land use
compatibility of communication towers upon which additional antennas,
communication dishes, etc., are to be installed. The application for approval
to install additional antennas, dishes, or other similar receiving devices
shall include certification from an engineer, registered in Florida, indicating
that the additional device or devices installed will not adversely affect the
structural integrity of the communication tower.
         (a)   Generally.
            1.   Monopole communication towers shall be engineered and
constructed to accommodate a minimum of one additional communication service
provider.
            2.   Camouflaged communication towers may be engineered and
constructed without accommodating additional communication service providers.
            3.   Communication towers located within electrical substations may
be engineered and constructed without accommodating additional communication
service providers. Such towers shall be monopole construction and shall be
subject to all the requirements of this division. The substation shall be
located within one of the zoning categories specified in division (C)(1).
            4.   Proposed communication antennas may, and are encouraged to,
collocate onto existing communication towers. Provided such collocation is
accomplished in a manner consistent with divisions (C)(1) and (3), such
collocation is permitted and new or additional conditional use approval is not
required.
            5.   If determined by the city that a proposed tower is situated in
a location which will benefit the city's telecommunication systems, then the
tower shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate the additional
telecommunication equipment beneficial to the public system at a cost to the
city no greater than the actual expense to the provider in so engineering and
constructing the tower to meet the city's needs.
            6.   On-site location. A communication tower which is being rebuilt
to accommodate the collocation of an additional communication antenna may be
moved on-site within 50 feet of its existing location, however, the antenna
shall meet the setback requirements in division (C)(3)(b). After the
communication tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only one tower may
remain on the site.
            7.   A relocated on-site communication tower shall continue to be
measured from the original tower location for purposes of calculating
separation distances between towers pursuant to division (C)(3)(b). The
relocation of a tower in accordance with this division shall in no way be
deemed to cause a violation of division (C)(3)(b). The on-site relocation of a
communication tower which comes within the separation distances to
residentially zoned lands or residential uses shall require variance approval.
         (b)   1.   Collocation of communication antenna on communication
towers. Collocation of communication antenna on existing communication towers,
including nonconforming communication towers, are subject only to building
permit review, which may include a review for compliance with this section, if
the applicants meet the following requirements:
               a.   The collocation does not increase the height of the tower
to which the antennas are to be attached, measured to the highest point of any
part of the tower or any existing antenna attached to the tower; and
               b.   The collocation does not increase the ground space area,
commonly known as the compound, approved in the site plan for equipment
enclosures and ancillary facilities, except as allowed under this section; and
               c.   The collocation consists of antennas, equipment enclosures,
and ancillary facilities that are of a design and configuration consistent with
all applicable regulations, restrictions, or conditions, if any, applied to the
initial antennas placed on the tower and to its accompanying equipment
enclosures and ancillary facilities and, if applicable, applied to the tower
supporting the antennas. Such regulations may include the design and aesthetic
requirements but not procedural requirements, other than those authorized by
this section, of the applicable land development code in effect at the time the
initial antennas placement was approved.
            2.   Such collocations shall not be subject to the design or
placement requirements of the land development code in effect at the time of
the collocation that are more restrictive than those in effect at the time of
the initial antenna placement approval, to any other portion of the land
development code, or to public hearing review. Such collocation applications
are not subject to the Planning and Zoning Board's approval and shall be
decided by the City Manager or designee.
         (c)   Collocation on structures other than communication towers.
Except for structures within the public right-of-way, or a historic building,
structure, site, object, or district, the following collocation applications on
all other existing structures shall be subject to no more than a review for
compliance with F.S. § 365.172, this section and building permit standards, if
they meet the following requirements:
            1.   The collocation does not increase the height of the existing
structure to which the antennas are to be attached, measured to the highest
point of any part of the structure or any existing antenna attached to the
structure; and
            2.   The collocation does not increase the existing ground space
area, otherwise known as the compound, if any, approved in the site plan for
the equipment enclosures and ancillary facilities. The City Manager shall
require a new landscape plan for the expanded ground space area indicating, at
a minimum, compliance with the previous conditions of approval or buffer
requirements at the time the previous landscape plan or buffer was approved.
            3.   The collocation consists of antennas, equipment enclosures,
and ancillary facilities that are of a design and configuration consistent with
any applicable structural or aesthetic design requirements and any requirements
for location on the structure in effect at the time of approval of the
structure, but not prohibitions or restrictions on the placement of additional
collocations on the existing structure or procedural requirements other than
those authorized by this section at the time of the collocation application;
and
            4.   The collocation consists of antennas, equipment enclosures,
and ancillary facilities that are of a design and configuration consistent with
all applicable restrictions or conditions, if any, that do not conflict with
division (C)(3), and were applied to the initial antennas placed on the
structure and to its accompanying equipment enclosures and ancillary facilities
and, if applicable, applied to the structure supporting the antennas.
         (d)   If only a portion of the collocation does not meet the
requirements of any of the above divisions, such as an increase in the height
or a proposal to expand the ground space approved in the site plan for the
equipment enclosures by more than 400 square feet or 50% where all other
portions of the collocation meet the requirements of this division, that
portion of the collocation only may be reviewed as if it were a new facility. A
collocation proposal under this subsection that increases the ground space area
approved in the original site plan, for equipment enclosures and ancillary
facilities, by no more than a cumulative amount of 400 square feet or 50% of
the original compound size, whichever is greater, shall require no more than
administrative review for compliance with the city's regulations; including,
but not limited to, the land development code and building permit review;
provided, however, that any collocation proposal that increases the original
compound size more than such greater cumulative amount shall be reviewed as if
it were a new communications facility.
         (e)   Any existing tower, including a nonconforming tower, may be
structurally modified to permit collocation or may be replaced through no more
than administrative review and building permit review, and is not subject to
public hearing review, if the overall height of the tower is not increased and,
if the replacement tower is a monopole tower or, if the pre-existing tower is a
stealth tower, the replacement tower is a similar stealth tower.
         (f)   The owner of the existing tower on which the proposed antennas
are to be collocated shall remain responsible for compliance with any
applicable condition or requirement of a permit or agreement, or any applicable
condition or requirement of the land development code to which the pre-existing
tower must comply, including any aesthetic requirements, provided the condition
or requirement is not inconsistent with this section.
         (g)   Collocations, or portions thereof, not meeting the requirements
set forth in divisions (b) and (c) above shall be subject to the approval and
permitting process set forth in divisions (3) and (4) below.
      (3)   Performance and construction standards.
         (a)   General regulations.
            1.   The minimum regulations in this division (3) shall apply in
addition to the regulations for the zoning district in which a communication
tower/antenna is to be located.
            2.   Approval required from other governmental agencies. Each
conditional use application for a monopole communication tower shall include
written approval or a statement of no objection from other federal, state or
county agencies that regulate communication tower siting, design, and
construction.
         (b)   Setbacks and related location requirements.
            1.   Communication towers shall comply with the minimum setbacks
requirements provided in
Table 1.
            2.   Communication towers shall comply with the minimum
requirements relating to the height of a proposed communications tower and
minimum distances from residential zoning districts, minimum distances from
other on-site principal uses, and minimum setbacks for tower supports as
provided in
Table 1.
            3.   Communication towers shall comply with the minimum
requirements relating to distances between towers as provided in
Table 2. Waivers may be granted from these distance requirements for
camouflaged towers by the City Commission in consideration of the factors set
forth at division (C)(3)(r).
            4.   All buildings and other structures to be located on the same
property as a communication tower shall conform with the setbacks established
for the underlying zoning district.
            5.   Communication towers shall be designed and constructed to
accommodate the collocation of additional communication equipment including
antennas, dishes, and similar transmitting and receiving devices.
TABLE 1
Location Requirements:
TABLE 1
Location Requirements:
               MONOPOLE       MONOPOLE        MONOPOLE        MONOPOLE
Height         50 feet or     51-100 feet     101-150 feet    151-200 feet
               less
(Freestanding) (c)*           (c)             (c)             (c)
Required       Greater of 20% Greater of 20%  Greater of 20%  Greater of 110%
Setback from   tower height   tower height or tower height or breakpoint or
Property       or zoning      zoning district zoning district zoning district
Line**         district       setback         setback         setback
               setback
Minimum
Distance from
Residential    150 feet       330 feet        660 feet        1,320 feet
Zoning
District***
Minimum                       Greater of 20%  Greater of 20%  Greater of 110%
Distance from  None           of tower height of tower height break point or 25
Other On-Site                 or 20 feet      or 25 feet      feet
Principal Uses
Minimum        Greater of 20  Greater of 20   Greater of 20   Greater of 20
Setbacks for   feet or zoning feet or zoning  feet or zoning  feet or zoning
Tower Supports district       district        district        district setback
               setback        setback         setback
NOTES:
*      “(c)” stands for conditional use, which is only required if the pole is
taller than the maximum height limit in the zoning district.
**   At least 50 feet from any public right-of-way.
***   Measured on a straight line from the two closest points between the
nearest residential zoning district line and the nearest property line of the
site upon which a tower is proposed to be located.
 
TABLE 2
Minimum Tower Separation Distances
TABLE 2
Minimum Tower Separation Distances
All communication towers constructed after February 6, 1997, shall conform to
the minimum tower separation requirements of this table.
MINIMUM TOWER SEPARATION
(Freestanding) (c)       (c)         (c)
TOWER HEIGHT   < 50 feet 50-100 feet 101-200 feet
< 50 feet      330 feet  660 feet    660 feet
50-100 feet    660 feet  1,320 feet  2,640 feet
101-200 feet   660 feet  2,640 feet  5,280 feet
NOTES:
(1)   The separation distances shall be measured along a straight line between
the closest point on the base of the existing or approved tower and the
closest point on the base of the proposed tower.
(2)   Separation distances shall be measured between proposed communication
towers in the city and any communication tower whether existing, approved or
proposed in the city or outside of the city limits.
(3)   Rooftop-mounted communication towers and antennas lawfully installed
shall be exempt from the minimum separation distances established in
Table 2 .
(4)   “(c)” stands for conditional use.
 
         (c)   Aircraft hazard. Communication towers shall not encroach into or
through any established, public or private airport approach path, as
established by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Each application to
construct a communication tower shall include proof of application for approval
from the FAA and shall be submitted with each conditional use application for a
communication tower. Based upon the location or height of a proposed tower, the
city may require a statement of no objection from the Orlando Sanford Airport
Authority. A building permit for an approved communication tower shall not be
issued until FAA approval is obtained.
         (d)   FCC emission standards. All personal wireless service facilities
in the public rights-of-way shall comply with current radio frequency emissions
standards of the Federal Communications Commission.
         (e)   Fencing and landscaping.
            1.   An eight-foot fence or wall, as measured from the finished
grade of the site, shall be required around the base of a communications tower.
The required fence or wall may include a maximum of three strands of barbed
wire at the top to further prevent unauthorized access to the site. If a chain
link fence or other type of wire fence is utilized it must be vinyl coated/
colored black.
            2.   Landscaping, consistent with the requirements of this code,
shall be installed around the entire perimeter of the fence. Additional
landscaping may be required around the perimeter of the fence and around any or
all anchors or supports if deemed necessary to buffer adjacent properties. The
City Commission may require landscaping in excess of the requirements of this
code in order to enhance compatibility with adjacent residential and
nonresidential land uses. Landscaping shall be installed on the outside of the
perimeter fence.
         (f)   High voltage and “No Trespassing” warning signs.
            1.   If high voltage is necessary for the operation of the
communications tower or any accessory structures, “HIGH VOLTAGE - DANGER”
warning signs shall be permanently attached to the fence or wall and shall be
spaced not more than 40 feet apart.
            2.   “NO TRESPASSING” warning signs shall be permanently attached
to the fence or wall and shall be spaced not more than 40 feet apart.
            3.   The letters for the “HIGH VOLTAGE,” “DANGER” and “NO
TRESPASSING” warning signs shall be at least six inches in height. The two
warning signs may be combined into one sign. The warning signs shall be
installed at least five feet above the finished grade of the fence.
            4.   The warning signs may be attached to freestanding poles if the
content of the signs may be obstructed by landscaping.
         (g)   Equipment storage. Mobile or immobile equipment not used in
direct support of a tower facility shall not be stored or parked on the site of
the communication tower, unless repairs to the tower are being made.
         (h)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for
signs or advertising purposes, including company name, banners, streamers,
etc., is prohibited.
         (i)   Colors. The city may require that towers shall be painted in
neutral colors, designed to blend into the surrounding environment. This
requirement may be superseded by the requirements of other county, state, or
federal regulatory agency possessing jurisdiction over communications towers.
         (j)   Lighting. Artificial tower lighting shall be limited to
mandatory safety lighting required by county, state, or federal regulatory
agencies possessing jurisdiction over communications towers. Security lighting
around the base of a tower may be provided if such lighting does not adversely
affect adjacent property owners. Unless required otherwise by the FAA, safety
lighting of a communication tower at night shall be limited to red lights.
White strobe lighting at night is prohibited.
         (k)   Inspections.
            1.   The City Commission may require periodic inspections of
communication towers to ensure structural integrity. Such inspections may be
required as follows:
               a.   Monopole towers: at least once every ten years;
               b.   Nonconforming communications towers: at least once every
five years.
            2.   Inspections shall be conducted by an engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Florida. The results of such inspections shall be
provided to the Director of Community Development. Based upon the results of an
inspection, the City Commission may require repair or removal of a
communication tower.
         (l)   Non-interference. No communication tower or antenna shall
interfere with public safety communication. Frequency coordination is required
to ensure non-interference with public safety system or public safety entities.
Additionally, each application for conditional use to allow construction of a
communication tower shall include either a preliminary or a certified statement
that the construction of the tower, including reception and transmission
functions, will not interfere with the usual and customary transmission or
reception of radio, television, etc., service enjoyed by adjacent residential
and nonresidential properties. In the event only a preliminary statement is
submitted with the application, a final, certified statement of non
interference will be provided and approved by the city prior to the issuance of
a building permit. The statement shall be prepared by an engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Florida or other professional accepted by the city.
         (m)   Measurement of tower height. Tower height shall be measured from
the finished grade at the base of the tower to the highest point of the tower
or appurtenance attached thereto.
         (n)   Exemption from minimum distance requirements. Communication
towers installed and operated for public purposes by a federal, state, or local
governmental agency shall be excluded from calculation of minimum distance
requirements for communication towers operated for private purposes.
         (o)   Certification required. All plans for construction of a
communication tower, including foundation plans, shall be certified by an
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Florida.
         (p)   Hurricane evacuation routes. Communication towers shall not be
constructed at a height and location that, in the event of tower failure, the
tower may totally or partially block or impede any road or street designated as
a hurricane evacuation route.
         (q)   Nonconforming communication towers. Any legal nonconforming
communication tower, antenna or similar transmitting and receiving device is
subject to § 154.10. Bona fide nonconforming communication towers rendered
nonconforming due to separation requirements that are damaged or destroyed may
be rebuilt only in compliance with these regulations.
         (r)   Type of construction. Communication towers shall be monopole
construction; provided, however, camouflaged construction may be approved, and
a waiver to the setbacks as established in Table 1 or the separation distances
in Table 2 for camouflaged towers may be approved by the City Commission at a
conditional use hearing, upon consideration of the following factors in
addition to those set forth in the Code of Ordinances for conditional use
approval:
            1.   Compatibility with adjacent properties;
            2.   Architectural consistency with adjacent properties; and
            3.   Visual impact on adjacent properties, including visual access
of adjacent properties to sunlight.
      (4)   Approval and permitting process.
         (a)   Site plan review. All communication tower, and applicable
communication antenna applications shall be reviewed under the general site
plan review procedure prior to issuance of a building permit pursuant to the
site plan review requirements of Chapter 156. Any request to deviate from any
of the requirements of this section shall require conditional use approval from
the City Commission. In addition to the submittal requirements contained
therein, the following information shall be required:
            1.   The exact location of the proposed tower/antenna located on
the most recent version of a Seminole County Property Appraisers Tax Map;
            2.   Documentation of compliance with separation requirements of
Tables 1 and 2. The applicant shall indicate the exact distance, location, and
identification of other communication towers on an appropriate map or drawing.
This documentation shall include, but not be limited to, the distances between
the base of the tower and the location of the residential uses and residential
zoning districts as documented by a professional surveyor. The applicant shall
also identify the type of construction of the existing communication tower(s)
and the owner/operator of the existing tower(s) within three miles of the
proposed tower location;
            3.   Drawing(s) showing elevation and height of the proposed
communication tower, indicating the finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
            4.   The location of the proposed tower/antenna, placed upon an
aerial photograph possessing a scale of not more than one inch equals 300 feet,
indicating all adjacent land uses within a radius of 2,640 feet from all
property lines of the proposed tower/antenna location site;
            5.   Line of sight analysis. The line of sight analysis shall
include the following information:
               a.   An identification of significant existing natural and
manmade features adjacent to the proposed tower/antenna location, to include
those features that will provide buffering for adjacent properties and public
rights of way;
               b.   An identification of at least three specific points within
a 2,000 foot radius of the proposed tower/antenna from which the line of site
analysis is presented;
               c.   A statement as to the potential visual and aesthetic
impacts of the proposed tower/antenna from which the line of site analysis is
presented:
               d.   A graphic illustration of the visual impact of the proposed
tower/antenna on all adjacent residential zoning districts;
               e.   Such other additional information as may be required by
city staff to fully review and evaluate the potential impact of the proposed
tower/antenna.
               f.   The exact location of the specific points to be included
within the line of site analysis shall be determined in coordination with the
city staff, prior to preparation and completion of the analysis.
               g.   The visual impact analysis shall be prepared and sealed by
an engineer or architect registered in the State of Florida. The city, at the
expense of the applicant may employ consulting assistance to review the
findings and conclusions of the visual impact analysis.
            6.   Site plans, landscape plans, or other information showing
compliance with the performance standards outlined in division (C)(3);
            7.   For new tower applications, a statement by the applicant as to
how construction of the communication tower will accommodate collocation of
additional antennas for future users. This documentation shall include
information that collocation shall provide accommodation for a communication
provider of identical technology. The statement shall set forth all efforts
made to collocate on existing structures;
            8.   If applicable, a signed affidavit from the landowner or tower
owner that an executed lease agreement with a service provider for placement of
the communication antenna collocation exists or will be executed upon approval
of the application, and where the tower or antenna will be collocated;
            9.   For new tower applications, a written evaluation of whether an
existing structure can reasonably be used for the antennae placement instead of
the construction of a new tower. If the tower is proposed in a residential
area, a statement that residential areas cannot be served from outside the
residential area. The application shall also include a statement that the
proposed height of a new tower or initial antennae placement or proposed height
increase of a modified tower, replacement tower, or collocation is necessary to
provide the designed service. The evaluation shall analyze, but is not limited
to, the following factors:
               a.   Structural capacity of the tower or towers;
               b.   Radio frequency interference;
               c.   Geographic service area requirements;
               d.   Mechanical or electrical incompatibilities;
               e.   Inability or ability to locate equipment on the tower or
towers; and
               f.   Any restrictions or limitations of the Federal
Communications Commission that would preclude the shared use of the tower.
               g.   This division does not apply to the installation of a
utility pole in the right of way designed to support a small wireless facility.
         (b)   Conditional use review.
            1.   All communication towers requiring conditional use review
shall be subject to the conditional use review criteria in §§
154.70 through
154.73. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this section, if a
communication tower is to be located on city-owned property, the tower shall in
all cases be subject to the conditional use approval process. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the City Commission, following an advisory
recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Board, may deny any application for a
conditional use to permit construction of a communication tower/antenna if, in
the opinion of the City Commission, the above land use compatibility or line of
site analysis demonstrates that any of the following may occur:
               a.   The tower/antenna will be highly visible from one or more
public rights-of-way;
               b.   The tower/antenna may adversely affect a residential
neighborhood, indicated when an average of at least 50% of total height of the
proposed tower/antenna will be visible from said neighborhood;
               c.   The tower/antenna may adversely affect surrounding
residential or nonresidential properties; or
               d.   The proposed tower/antenna will be of a height, bulk and
scale that is not compatible with surrounding residential or nonresidential
uses.
            2.   As a condition of conditional use approval, time limitations
on said approval may be established upon the expiration of which the
conditional use shall be reevaluated at a public hearing by the City Commission
after a recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (c)   Building permits. Except for eligible facilities requests in
accordance with division (E), a building permit shall be required for the
construction and modification of all communication towers and communication
antennas.
         (d)   Permit processing timeframes; “shot clock”. The city's action on
proposals to place or maintain Communications Facilities shall be subject to
the applicable standards and time frames set out in F.S. § 365.172, 47 U.S.C.
§1455(a) and orders issued by the FCC, as same may be amended from time to
time. All federal and state “shot clock” timeframe guidelines that apply to any
particular permit are hereby recognized by the city, and the city will make all
reasonable efforts to comply.
         (e)   The following procedures apply to construction of a new
communication tower or modifications thereto, including the collocation of
communication antenna:
            1.   Notification of completeness. The City Manager or designee
shall notify the applicant within 20 business days after the date the
application is submitted as to whether the application is, for administrative
purposes only, properly completed and has been properly submitted in accordance
with the requirements set forth above. However, such determination shall not be
deemed as an approval of the application. Such notification shall indicate with
specificity any deficiencies which, if cured, could make the application
properly completed.
            2.   The city shall grant or deny each properly completed
application for a collocation based on the application's compliance with this
section, applicable provisions of the City Code and any other applicable
regulations, and within the normal timeframe for a similar building permit
review but in no case later than 45 business days after the date the
application is determined to be properly completed. This timeframe shall not
apply to lease negotiations for collocation on city-owned property. Eligible
facilities shall be subject to the requirements set forth in division (E).
            3.   The city shall grant or deny each properly completed
application for any other communication tower or antenna based on the
application's compliance with this section and any other applicable law.
including but not limited to the City Code, and within the normal timeframe for
a similar type of review, but in no case later than 90 business days after the
date the application is determined to be properly completed. This timeframe
shall not apply to lease negotiations for wireless communications facilities on
city-owned property.
            4.   An application is deemed submitted or resubmitted on the date
the application is received by the city. If the city does not notify the
applicant in writing that the application is not completed in compliance with
the city's regulations within 20 business days after the date the application
is initially submitted or additional information resubmitted, the application
is deemed, for administrative purposes only, to be properly completed and
properly submitted. However, the determination shall not be deemed as an
approval of the application. If the application is not completed in compliance
with the city's regulations, the city shall so notify the applicant in writing
indicating with specificity any deficiencies in the required documents or
deficiencies in the content of the required documents which, if cured, would
make the application properly completed. Upon resubmission of information to
cure the stated deficiencies, the city shall notify the applicant, in writing,
within the normal timeframes of review, but in no case longer than 20 business
days after the additional information is submitted, of any remaining
deficiencies that must be cured. However, if applicant does not cure the
application deficiencies within 20 business days after receiving the notice of
deficiencies, the application shall be considered withdrawn or closed unless an
extension, due to reasonable circumstances, of the time to cure is requested by
the applicant prior to the expiration of the 20-day period, and such extension
is granted by the City Manager or designee.
            5.   The timeframes specified above may be extended, only to the
extent that the application has not been granted or denied, because the city's
procedures generally applicable to all other similar types of applications
require action by the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Board, and such
action has not taken place within the specified timeframes. Under such
circumstances, the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Board, as applicable,
shall either grant or deny the application at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, or, otherwise, the application shall be deemed automatically approved;
accordingly, the City Manager or designee may by letter to the applicant extend
the timeframe for a decision until the next available scheduled meeting date of
the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Board as to whether to grant or deny
an application for a permit taken pursuant to this section. To be effective, a
waiver of the timeframes set forth herein must be voluntarily agreed to by the
applicant and the city. The city may request, but not require, a waiver of the
timeframes by the applicant, except that, with respect to a specific
application, the city may require a one-time waiver in the case of a declared
local, state, or federal emergency that directly affects the administration of
all permitting activities of the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
and an applicant may voluntarily agree to waive the timeframes set forth above.
         f.   Public notice. For purposes of this section, any conditional use
request, variance request, or appeal of the Planning and Zoning Board's
decision regarding this section shall require public notice to all directly
abutting property owners and all property owners of properties that are located
within the corresponding separation distances listed in division (C)(3)(b).
   (D)   Wireless communication facilities. All wireless communication
facilities in the city shall be subject to these regulations except as noted
for small wireless facilities:
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Within the city, wireless communication facilities, as defined
in this chapter, shall be permitted on private or public property, and within
the city, county, and state public rights-of-way and public easements, subject
to the requirements of this division (D). For wireless facilities in the right-
of-way,
Chapter 97 applies.
         (b)   All wireless communication facilities in/on privately-owned or
public-owned property and in public rights-of-way and public easements shall be
subject to the city's zoning and land use regulations which are consistent with
state and federal law. If in the right-of-way,
Chapter 97 applies.
         (c)   Collocation of wireless communication facilities is strongly
encouraged. Where multiple providers are seeking to locate in the same
geographic area, every effort should be made to collocate, where consistent
with state law.
         (d)   Wireless communication facilities attached to a permitted and
legally installed and maintained vertical structure in a public right-of-way,
such as a street light pole or utility pole, is strongly encouraged, but still
subject to the applicable design standards in
Chapter 97, except as provided in state law.
         (e)   Privately owned fire, radio, television towers, stage towers,
smoke stacks, and flag poles are prohibited within the rights-of-way.
      (2)   Use, height and separation requirements.
         (a)   Zoning and maximum heights. Wireless communication facilities
shall be permitted in the zoning districts indicated below in Table 3, at the
maximum heights indicated. The zoning of the nearest adjacent property will
apply to wireless communication facilities proposed in a city, county, or state
public-right-of-way.
 
TABLE 3
Permitted Zoning Districts and Maximum Heights Requirements*
ZONING DISTRICT            PRIVATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY MAXIMUM HEIGHT
                           Other than small wireless
                           facilities in the right-of-
A-1,RCE, RM, R-l A, R-1AA, way, not permitted on
R-l AAA, R-1B, GU, R-2, R- residentially zoned
3, DC, or property with    property unless applicant
Downtown Development       can conclusively            35 feet/10 feet above
District Future Land Use   demonstrate to the          structure for small
Category. Residential Use  satisfaction of the city    wireless
in a PUD. Any similar      that it cannot reasonably
zoning district in         provide its wireless
adjoining jurisdictions.   service to the residential
                           area from outside of the
                           district.
C-l, PO, Commercial or                                 35 feet/10 feet above
Office Use in a PUD. Any   Permitted                   structure for small
similar zoning district in                             wireless
adjoining jurisdictions.
C-2. Any similar zoning                                35 feet/10 feet above
district in adjoining      Permitted                   structure for small
jurisdictions.                                         wireless
M-l A, M-2A. Any similar                               45 feet/10 feet above
zoning district in         Permitted                   structure for small
adjoining jurisdictions.                               wireless
NOTE:
*   The height and zoning requirements set forth herein shall not apply to
the installation of a small or micro wireless facility in the rights of way
permitted in accordance with
Chapter 97 . In accordance with F.S. § 337.401, the height for a new utility
pole installed in conjunction with the collocation of a small wireless
facility shall be limited to the tallest existing utility pole as of July 1,
2017, located in the same right-of-way, other than a utility pole for which a
waiver has previously been granted, measured from grade in place within 500
feet of the proposed location of the small wireless facility. If there is no
utility pole within 500 feet, the height of the utility pole shall not exceed
50 feet. Small wireless facilities can be placed up to ten feet above the
utility pole or structure.
 
         (b)   Permitted use in PUD. Wireless communication facilities shall be
indicated as permitted use in a PUD master land use plan in order to be
considered as permitted on private and public property pursuant to the above
table.
         (c)   Height compatibility. The size and height of structures
supporting wireless communication facilities in the right-of-way shall not be
greater than the maximum size and height of utility poles in the same block-
face, subject to the maximum heights provided above. For small wireless
facilities, the structures cannot be greater than the maximum size/height of
utility poles within 500 feet.
         (d)   Determination of similar zoning district in adjoining
jurisdictions. When a wireless communication facility other than a small
wireless facility is proposed to be located in a right-of-way within the city
limits which is adjacent to property located in an adjoining jurisdiction, the
Community Development Director, in consultation with the City Manager, shall
determine the corresponding city zoning district for purposes of applying the
zoning and maximum height requirements of this section.
         (e)   Separation from adjacent off-site residential. In accordance
with F.S. §337.40l(7)(d)4, except for the placement of small wireless
facilities in the right-of-way or collocated facilities pursuant to Chapter 97
of this code, no wireless communication facility shall be permitted within 75
feet of any adjacent off-site single-family or multi-family residential
principal structure unless applicant can conclusively demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the city that it cannot reasonably provide its wireless service
to the residential area from outside of the district. Documentation shall be
submitted with any application for permit approval to demonstrate conformance
with the separation requirement.
         (f)   Separation distances between wireless communication facilities.
In accordance with F. S. § 337.401(7)(d)4, the placement of small wireless
facilities in the right of way or small wireless facilities collocated pursuant
to Chapter 97 are not limited by minimum separation distances. With that
exception, the minimum separation distance between all other wireless
communication facilities shall be 1,000 feet. Separation distances shall be
irrespective of jurisdiction or location in rights-of-way or on parcels of land
and shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the base
of the existing wireless communication facility and the base of the proposed
facility. Documentation shall be submitted with any request for a wireless
communication facility to demonstrate conformance with the requirement for
separation distances between wireless communication facilities.
         (g)   The city may request that the proposed location of a small
wireless facility be proposed for another location in the right-of-way and
placed on an alternative city utility pole or support structure or a new
utility pole. The city and the applicant may negotiate the alternative
location, including any objective design standards and reasonable spacing
requirements for ground-based equipment, for 30 days after the date of the
request. At the conclusion of the negotiation period, if the alternative
location is accepted by the applicant, the applicant must notify the city of
such acceptance and the application shall be deemed granted for any new
location for which there is agreement and all other locations in the
application. If an agreement is not reached, the applicant must notify the city
of such non-agreement and the city must grant or deny the original application
within 90 days after the date the application was filed. A request for an
alternative location, an acceptance of an alternative location, or a rejection
of an alternative location must be in writing and provided by electronic mail.
      (3)   Approval and permitting process.
         (a)   Private and public property (except public right-of-way).
Wireless communication facilities that comply with the requirements of this
division may be installed and located on private or public property through the
building permit review and approval process. If in the right-of-way,
Chapter 97 applies. Also a right-of-way permit is required, unless the
application is for the replacement or modification of a wireless facility,
except a tower, that would result in a wireless facility not discernibly
different from the existing facility; then only building permit review is
required. Such wireless communication facilities shall be exempt from site plan
review by the Development Review Committee and the Planning and Zoning Board
provided the proposed wireless communication facility does not impact or
conflict with improvements or landscaping on the subject property. In the event
a proposed wireless communication facility conflicts with existing or proposed
improvements or landscaping on the subject property, a site plan revision shall
be required before permit issuance.
            1.   Submittal requirements. In addition to the standard building
permit submittal requirements, applicants for wireless communication facilities
shall submit plans which include the following:
               a.   A site plan of the entire property indicating where the
limits of work are located on the property, and a blow-up of the limits of work
area depicting the details of the proposed installation.
               b.   Depiction and identification within a minimum of 50 feet of
work of all above ground infrastructure and improvements, including without
limitation, pavement, curb, sidewalks, buildings, utility poles, etc. and all
below ground infrastructure and utilities, including without limitation,
foundations, tanks, utilities, etc., within limits of work.
               c.   Depiction and identification within a minimum of 50 feet of
work of all existing landscaping and vegetation.
               d.   Depiction and identification of all existing easements
within limits of work and any additional easement(s) acquired (e.g., access
easement, temporary construction easement, or other easement) for construction
of work. Easements must denote recording information.
               e.   Except for small wireless facilities, depiction and
identification of the separation distance from all residential uses, include
addresses, zoning, and type of residential use (e.g., single-family
residential, multi-family, townhomes).
               f.   A profile view of the wireless communication facility
demonstrating overall height and compliance with the pole construction
requirements, design requirements, and all other applicable requirements of
this section.
               g.   Indication of the assigned address on the plan and a copy
of the address assignment letter from Seminole County.
               h.   Except for small wireless facilities, depiction and
identification of all wireless communication facilities located within a 600-
foot radius measured from the center of the proposed wireless communication
facility to the center of any existing wireless communication facility. If none
exist within the 600-foot radius, the plans must denote this.
               i.   Depiction and identification of all proposed improvements
for the wireless communication facility.
            2.   Permit processing timeframes; “shot clock”. The city's action
on proposals to place or maintain communications facilities shall be subject to
the applicable standards and time frames set out in F.S. §365.172, 47 U.S.C.
§1455(a) and orders issued by the FCC, as may be amended from time to time,
which supersede this code. All federal and state “shot clock” timeframe
guidelines that apply to any particular permit are hereby recognized by the
city, and the city will make all reasonable efforts to comply. The following
procedures apply to construction or installation of a new wireless
communication facility or modification thereto:
               a.   Notification of completeness. The City Manager or designee
shall notify the applicant within 20 business days after the date the
application is submitted as to whether the application is, for administrative
purposes only, properly completed and has been properly submitted in accordance
with the requirements set forth above. However, such determination shall not be
deemed as an approval of the application. Such notification shall indicate with
specificity any deficiencies which, if cured, could make the application
properly completed.
               b.   The city shall grant or deny each properly completed
application for a collocation based on the application's compliance with this
section, applicable provisions of the City Code and any other applicable
regulations, and within the normal timeframe for a similar building permit
review, but in no case later than 45 business days after the date the
application is determined to be properly completed. This timeframe shall not
apply to lease negotiations for collocation on city-owned property. Eligible
facilities shall be subject to the requirements set forth in division (E).
               c.   The city shall grant or deny each properly completed
application for any other wireless communications facility based on the
application's compliance with this section and any other applicable law,
including but not limited to the City Code, and within the normal timeframe for
a similar type of review, but in no case later than 90 business days after the
date the application is determined to be properly completed. This timeframe
shall not apply to lease negotiations for wireless communications facilities on
city-owned property.
               d.   An application is deemed submitted or resubmitted on the
date the application is received by the city. If the city does not notify the
applicant in writing that the application is not completed in compliance with
the city's regulations within 20 business days after the date the application
is initially submitted or additional information resubmitted, the application
is deemed, for administrative purposes only, to be properly completed and
properly submitted. However, the determination shall not be deemed as an
approval of the application. If the application is not completed in compliance
with the city's regulations, the city shall so notify the applicant in writing
indicating with specificity any deficiencies in the required documents or
deficiencies in the content of the required documents which, if cured, would
make the application properly completed. Upon resubmission of information to
cure the stated deficiencies, the city shall notify the applicant, in writing,
within the normal timeframes of review, but in no case longer than 20 business
days after the additional information is submitted, of any remaining
deficiencies that must be cured. However, if applicant does not cure the
application deficiencies within 20 business days after receiving the notice of
deficiencies, the application shall be considered withdrawn or closed unless an
extension due to reasonable circumstances of the time to cure is requested by
the applicant prior to the expiration of the 20-day period and such extension
is granted by the City Manager or designee.
               e.   The timeframes specified above may be extended only to the
extent that the application has not been granted or denied, because the city's
procedures generally applicable to all other similar types of applications
require action by the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Board, and such
action has not taken place within the specified timeframes. Under such
circumstances, the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Board, as applicable,
shall either grant or deny the application at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, or, otherwise, the application shall be deemed automatically approved;
accordingly, the City Manager or designee may by letter to the applicant extend
the timeframe for a decision until the next available scheduled meeting date of
the City Commission or Planning and Zoning Commission. To be effective, a
waiver of the timeframes set forth herein must be voluntarily agreed to by the
applicant and the city. The city may request, but not require, a waiver of the
timeframes by the applicant, except that, with respect to a specific
application, the city may require a onetime waiver in the case of a declared
local, state, or federal emergency that directly affects the administration of
all permitting activities of the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
and an applicant may voluntarily agree to waive the timeframes set forth above.
         (b)   Public rights-of-way. Wireless communication facilities that
comply with the requirements of this section may be installed and located
within city, county, and state public rights-of-way and public easements within
the city limits of the city through the right-of-way permitting process set
forth in
Chapter 97.
         (c)   Compliance with Land Development Code. An existing or proposed
wireless communication facility on private or public property or in public
rights-of-way or public easements shall only be constructed, utilized, and
maintained in a manner consistent with the City Land Development Code where
consistent with state and federal law.
      (4)   Design standards. These design standards apply to all wireless
facilities, except for small wireless facilities in the right-of-way. (See
Chapter 97).
         (a)   Type of pole construction. The following vertical pole
structures may be used as support structures for new wireless communication
facilities,subject to compliance with the requirements of this division, to
include the use and height requirements:
            1.   Utility poles.
               a.   Utility poles may be used as wireless support structures
when wireless communication facilities are added to an existing utility pole,
or an existing utility pole is replaced in order to support wireless
communication facilities.
               b.   Except for small wireless facilities collocated or
installed in accordance with
Chapter 97 in the right- of-way, wireless communication facilities shall not be
installed on existing, replacement, or new wood utility poles. To be utilized
for wireless communication facilities, the utility pole must be upgraded to
metal or another material acceptable to the city in order for the
infrastructure to be hidden from view.
               c.   New and replacement utility poles that support wireless
communication facilities shall substantially match the style, design, and color
of non-wood utility poles in the surrounding area.
               d.   New utility poles shall not be permitted in areas that have
street-scaping or where the above-ground utilities have been removed or placed
underground.
               e.   Where decorative street lights are the predominant fixture,
utility poles that support wireless communication facilities shall match the
style, design, and color of the decorative streetlight poles
            2.   Street lights and on-site light poles.
               a.   Street lights in rights-of-way and on-site light poles may
be used as wireless support structures when wireless communication facilities
are added to an existing light pole, or an existing light pole is replaced in
order to support wireless communication facilities.
               b.   Such street lights or on-site light poles shall continue to
match the style, design, and color, of existing street light poles on that
particular street or particular parcel of land.
            3.   Stand-alone wireless support structure applicable to macro
wireless facilities.
               a.   New poles designed specifically to support wireless
communication facilities may be used for wireless communication facilities.
               b.   For placement in public rights-of-way, an applicant must
provide satisfactory evidence to the city that no existing utility poles or
street lights can be reasonably used for the wireless communication facility
placement instead of the construction of a new, single-purpose support pole.
               c.   New wireless communication facility support poles shall be
decorative monopoles with a black finish, and shall be concealed or stealth
poles.
            4.   Traffic signal poles. Except for small wireless facilities
collocated pursuant to Chapter 97, wireless communication facilities shall not
be installed on a traffic signal pole, whether owned by the city, county, or
other agency, unless authorized by the agency owning the pole and the city.
         (b)   Installation and stealth requirements.
            1.   Stealth design for above-ground communications facilities,
utility poles and wireless support structures, shall be utilized wherever
possible to minimize the visual impact of communications facilities on, and
preserve compatibility with, surrounding neighborhoods, and to eliminate the
need to locate any ground or elevated equipment on the exterior of a
communications facility or existing structure. Stealth design is not required
with respect to wireline pole attachment installations made in the
communication space of utility poles. The city will not limit the size or
configuration of a small wireless facility or any of its components, if the
size is in accordance with F.S. §337.401. To the extent reasonably practicable
for the site, and to the extent permitted by state law, stealth design features
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
               a.   For new utility poles and new wireless support structures,
as well as existing structures in the public rights-of-way, (1) top-mounted
antennas within enclosures that do not extend the diameter of the supporting
communications facility pole, wireless support structure, existing structure or
other support structure at the level of antenna attachment, or (2) side-mounted
antennas within enclosures that extend no more than two feet beyond the
exterior dimensions of the supporting structure at the level of antenna
attachment, shall be utilized. For purposes of calculating the above, the
dimensions of the supporting communications facility pole, wireless support
structure, existing structure or other support structure do not include any
platform, rack, mount or other hardware used to attach an antenna or antenna
enclosure to the supporting structure. Nothing contained in this division a.
shall be construed to limit stealth design as specified in other divisions
below.
               b.   Small wireless facilities are prohibited on utility poles,
wireless support structures, or similar structures 15 feet or less in height
unless incorporated into and hidden in the pole under a top mounted street
light in a design substantially similar to the acorn lights in the city.
               c.   The use of foliage and vegetation, based on conditions of
the specific area where the communication facility is to be located. Trees
shall be approved by the City's Community Development Director under separate
permit.
               d.   Equipment wraps (the imagery in a wrap shall not contain
any commercial speech).
               e.   Flag poles.
               f.   Street light fixtures.
               g.   Other stealth design proposed by an applicant and approved
by the city based on unique circumstances applicable to the facility or the
location or both.
            2.   Ground-mounted equipment cabinets and battery backup cabinets
shall be permitted. On private and public property, equipment boxes for
wireless communication facilities must be located in areas with existing
foliage or another aesthetic feature to obscure the view of the equipment box.
Additional plantings may be required in order to meet this requirement. The
external finish of all ground-mounted cabinets and associated hardware shall be
black.
            3.   Equipment cabinets or battery backup cabinets shall not be
mounted to the exterior of a pole, except as provided in F.S. §337.401, for
small wireless facilities.
            4.   Electric power and communication lines servicing wireless
communication facilities shall be located underground. Aerial connections shall
be prohibited, except as provided in F.S. §337.401, for small wireless
facilities.
            5.   No exposed wiring or conduit is permitted. All conduit and
wiring shall be located inside the pole, except as provided in F.S. §337.401,
for small wireless facilities.
            6.   Exterior looping of excess cable length installed on any
wireless communication facility is prohibited, except as provided for in F.C.
§337.401, for small wireless facilities.
            7.   Electric meters and disconnect switches shall not be located
on the pole. All such infrastructure shall be hidden in an equipment cabinet
off the pole, except as provided for in F.S. §337.401, for small wireless
facilities.
            8.   The grounding rod shall not extend above the top of the
sidewalk and must be placed in a pull box, and the ground wire between the pole
and ground rod must be inside an underground conduit.
            9.   All pull boxes must be vehicle load bearing, comply with FDOT
Standard Specification 635 and be listed on the FDOT approved products list. No
new pull boxes may be located in pedestrian ramps.
            10.   No signals, lights, or illumination shall be permitted on an
antenna, except in the case of a light pole to which such antenna is attached,
unless required by applicable state or federal laws or rules.
            11.   For purposes of emergency contact, the owner of the wireless
communication facility shall place one identification label on the equipment
advising of the name and contact telephone number of the owner of the wireless
communication facility.
            12.   FCC emissions standards. All personal wireless service
facilities in the public rights-of-way shall comply with current radio
frequency emissions standards of the Federal Communications Commission.
            13.   Aerial towers and aerial fiber optic cable connections are
not permitted, except as provided in F.S. §337.401, for small wireless
facilities.
         (c)   Placement requirements applicable to macro wireless facilities
except for small wireless facilities in the right-of-way (unless required by
applicable codes).
            1.   All wireless communication facilities and accessory equipment
shall be located to avoid any physical or visual obstruction to pedestrian,
bicycle, or vehicular traffic, or to otherwise create safety hazards to
pedestrians, bicyclists, or motorists.
            2.   When located within a public right-of-way or private street:
               a.   Where available, wireless communication facilities shall be
located inthe parkway strip or street furniture zone, as defined in §
154.09. When a parkway strip or street furniture zone is available, wireless
communication facilities shall not be located in the pedestrian clear zone as
defined in this chapter. Wireless communications facilities in the parkway
strip or street furniture zone shall generally be placed in the center of the
parkway strip or street furniture zone and shall meet minimum Florida
Department of Transportation and City of Lake Mary roadway setback requirements
from the back-of-curb.
               b.   Where there is no parkway strip or street furniture zone,
wireless communication facilities shall maintain a minimum five-foot wide
pedestrian clear zone between the wireless communication facility and edge of
sidewalk.
               c.   Wireless communication facilities shall be located at least
ten feet from the edge of existing trees 12 inches or greater in diameter at
breast height.
            3.   When located in any other location that is adjacent to a
sidewalk or pedestrian way, a minimum five foot wide pedestrian clear zone
shall be maintained.
            4.   Wireless communication facilities shall be located at least
ten feet from a driveway.
            5.   Wireless communication facilities shall be set back a minimum
of 25 feet from a traffic signal pole and set back a minimum of 15 feet from
any pedestrian ramp.
            6.   Notwithstanding the above, the city may require greater
setbacks from these and other fixtures in the right-of-way to ensure proper
sight lines for public safety purposes.
            7.   When adjacent principal use buildings are located within ten
feet of the right-of-way, wireless communication facilities shall be located
between tenant spaces or adjoining properties where their shared property line
intersect the right-of-way.
            8.   The city may request that the proposed location of a small
wireless facility be proposed for another location in the right-of-way and
placed on an alternative city utility pole or support structure or on a new
utility pole. The city and the applicant may negotiate the alternative
location, including any objective design standards and reasonable spacing
requirements for ground-based equipment, for 30 days after the date of the
request. At the conclusion of the negotiation period, if the alternative
location is accepted by the applicant, the applicant must notify the city of
such acceptance and the application shall be deemed granted for any new
location for which there is agreement and all other locations in the
application. If an agreement is not reached, the applicant must notify the city
of such non-agreement and the city must grant or deny the original application
within 90 days after the date the application was filed. A request for an
alternative location, an acceptance of an alternative location, or a rejection
of an alternative location must be in writing and provided by electronic mail.
         (d)   Setback and landscape buffer requirements. When located on
privately or publicly owned parcels of land (i.e., not right-of-way), wireless
communication facilities, support structures/poles, cabinets, and equipment
shall conform to the following setback and landscape buffer requirements, which
are similar to the requirements for other types of accessory uses:
            1.   Front yards. Wireless communication facilities shall be
located behind the front building line established by existing buildings onthe
property, and shall not be located in front landscape buffers.
            2.   Side yards. Wireless communication facilities shall not be
located in the required side yard setback or landscape buffer. Exception:
utility poles located in public utility easements that support wireless
communication facilities.
            3.   Rear yards. Wireless communication facilities shall be no
closer than six feet to the rear lot line. Exception: utility poles located in
public utility easements that support wireless communication facilities.
            4.   The city may require the use of landscaping as a buffer,
consistent with the landscaping otherwise located on the property. Additional
landscaping or fencing may be required if deemed necessary to buffer adjacent
properties or to screen the proposed wireless communication facility equipment.
      (5)   Modification of existing wireless communication facilities.
Collocation, removal, or replacement of reception or transmission equipment for
an existing wireless communication facility, which does not otherwise qualify
as an eligible facilities request in accordance with division (E), shall only
be subject to a building permit on private or public property, or a right-of-
way utilization permit in public rights-of-way, either of which shall include
an administrative review for compliance with this division, provided the
modification does not result in a wireless communication facility that is
readily discernibly different in size, type and appearance, when viewed from
ground level, from surrounding properties, and the replacement or modification
of equipment that is not visible from surrounding properties, all as reasonably
determined by the City Engineer. This requirement shall not supersede any lease
agreement between a service provider and landowner, including the city.
      (6)   Maintenance.
         (a)   All wireless communication facilities shall be maintained
consistent with city approvals, the requirements of the Land Development Code,
and in good repair, including exterior finishes, surfaces and structures.
         (b)   Routine maintenance not modifying the wireless communications
facility from the approved permitted drawings may be performed without a permit
from the city.
         (c)   Damaged poles or facilities shall be immediately repaired,
removed, or replaced. Within public rights-of-way, in the event that damage to
a wireless communication facility poses a safety hazard to the public, the city
has a right to remove at the owner's expense.
         (d)   All safety practices required by applicable law or accepted
industry practices and standards shall be used during the placement or
maintenance of communications facilities and wireless communication facilities.
         (e)   The use of any portion of a wireless communication facility or
support pole for the posting of signs or for advertising purposes, including,
but not limited to the display of lights, banners and streamers, is strictly
prohibited.
      (7)   Waivers. Notwithstanding the waiver provisions set forth in §
97.18, which are applicable to the collocation of small wireless facilities
within public rights-of-way, the Community Development Director has the
authority to grant the following waivers for wireless communication facilities
located on private or public property and in rights-of-way a finding that such
waiver would not be contrary to the public interest:
         (a)   To increase the maximum height of a wireless communication
facility up to 10% if the applicant demonstrates that the increased height:
            1.   Accommodates the collocation of antennas from more than one
wireless provider; or
            2.   Improves transmission impacted by surrounding buildings or
topography, provided that there is adequate tree canopy to mitigate for the
increase in height.
         (b)   To decrease the separation distance requirement between wireless
communication facilities set forth in division (D)(2)(f), by up to 10%, if the
applicant demonstrates:
            1.   An existing utility pole is being replaced; or
            2.   Impediments such as a dense tree canopy or tall structure
interfere with signal transmission.
         (c)   To reduce the design requirements in division (D)(4), the
placement requirements in division (D)(4)(c), or the setback and landscape
buffer requirements in division (D)(4)(d), if the applicant demonstrates that
the intent of this division is better served by such waiver.
      (8)   Compliance with franchise agreement. In addition to the
requirements contained herein, all applications that involve the utilization of
electric utility poles or facilities in city right-of-way shall include
documentation that the electric utility has complied with the requirements of
the franchise agreement which requires additional and separate permission from
the city to utilize its electric utility system facilities in the city's right-
of-ways to provide other, non-electric utility services or products.
      (9)   Registration. Registration with the city is required pursuant to
Chapter 97, prior to applying for permits to place, occupy, or maintain a
communication system in the public right-of-way.
   (E)   Eligible facilities request.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this division (E) only, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         “BASE STATION.”
            1.   A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. The term does not encompass a communication tower as
defined in §
154.09 , or any equipment associated with a tower. “BASE STATION” includes,
without limitation:
               a.   Equipment associated with wireless communications services
such as private, broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed
wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
               b.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration (including distributed antenna systems (DAS) and
small-cell networks).
               c.   Any structure other than a tower that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the city under this subsection, supports or
houses equipment described in divisions 1.a. and b. of this definition that has
been reviewed and approved under the applicable zoning or siting process, or
under another state or local regulatory review process, even if the structure
was not built for the sole or primary purpose of providing that support.
            2.   The term does not include any structure that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the city under this subsection, does not
support or house equipment described in divisions 1.a. and b. of this
definition.
         “COLLOCATION.” The mounting or installation of transmission equipment
on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
radio frequency signals for communication purposes. “COLLOCATION” includes the
first placement of transmission equipment on a wireless tower or base station.
         “ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST.” Any request for modification of an
existing tower or base station in the public rights-of-way that, in accordance
with the definitions contained in FCC regulations codified at 47 C.F.R. §
1.40001, does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing
structure and is requesting:
            1.   Collocation of new transmission equipment;
            2.   Removal of existing transmission equipment; or
            3.   Replacement of existing transmission equipment.
         “ELIGIBLE SUPPORT STRUCTURE.” Any tower or base station as defined in
this subsection, provided that it is existing at the time the relevant
application is filed with the city under this division (E).
         “EXISTING.” A constructed tower or base station existing for purposes
of this division that has been reviewed and approved under the applicable
zoning or siting process, or under another state or local regulatory review
process, provided that a tower that has not been reviewed because it was not in
a zoned area when it was built, but was lawfully constructed, is existing for
purposes of this division (E).
         “SITE.” For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, the
current boundaries of the leased or owned property surrounding the tower, and
any access or utility easements currently related to the “SITE,” and, for other
eligible support structures, further restricted to that area in proximity to
the structure and to other transmission equipment already deployed on the
ground.
         “SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE.” A modification that substantially changes the
physical dimensions of an eligible support structure if it meets any of the
following criteria:
            1.   For towers, other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it
increases the height of the tower by more than 10% or by the height of one
additional antenna array with separation from the nearest existing antenna not
to exceed 20 feet, whichever is greater; for other eligible support structures,
it increases the height of the structure by more than 10% or more than ten
feet, whichever is greater. Changes in height should be measured from the
original support structure in cases where deployments are or will be separated
horizontally, such as on buildings' rooftops; in other circumstances, changes
in height should be measured from the dimensions of the tower or base station,
inclusive of originally approved appurtenances and any modifications that were
approved prior to the passage of the Spectrum Act;
            2.   For towers other than towers in the public rights-of-way, it
involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the tower that would protrude
from the edge of the tower more than 20 feet, or more than the width of the
tower structure at the level of the appurtenance, whichever is greater; for
other eligible support structures, it involves adding an appurtenance to the
body of the structure that would protrude from the edge of the structure by
more than six feet;
            3.   For any eligible support structure, it involves installation
of more than the standard number of new equipment cabinets for the technology
involved, but not to exceed four cabinets; or, for towers in the public rights-
of-way and base stations, it involves installation of any new equipment
cabinets on the ground if there are no preexisting ground cabinets associated
with the structure, or else involves installation of ground cabinets that are
more than 10% larger in height or overall volume than any other ground cabinets
associated with the structure:
            4.   It entails any excavation or deployment outside the current
site;
            5.   It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible
support structure; or
            6.   It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting
approval of the construction or modification of the eligible support structure
or base station equipment; provided, however, that this limitation does not
apply to any modification that is noncompliant only in a manner that would not
exceed the thresholds identified in divisions a. through d. of this definition.
         “TOWER.” Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of
supporting any FCC-licensed or authorized antennas and their associated
facilities, including structures that are constructed for wireless
communications services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and the associated site.
         “TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT.” Equipment that facilitates transmission for
any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but
not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber optic cable, and
regular and backup power supply. The term includes equipment associated with
wireless communications services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
      (2)   Applicability and intent. This division implements Section 6409(a)
of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Spectrum Act) as
interpreted by the FCC’s Acceleration of Broadband Deployment Report and Order,
which requires local governments to approve any eligible facilities request for
modification of an existing tower or base station that does not result in a
substantial change to the physical dimensions of such tower or base station.
This division shall apply only to eligible facilities requests for an eligible
support structure that is a legal conforming or legal nonconforming structure
at the time a completed eligible facilities request is submitted to the city.
To the extent that the nonconforming structures and use provisions of the City
Land Development s request otherwise allowed under this section, such
provisions are superseded by this division. This division shall not apply to an
eligible facilities request which requests replacement of the existing tower or
base station. This division shall also not apply where the wireless
communications facility requested to be modified is located upon a city-owned
structure, or upon non-right-of- way property which is either city-owned or
city-leased.
      (3)   Application. No eligible facilities request shall be deemed
complete unless it is in writing, accompanied by the application fee, includes
the required submittals, and is attested to by the authorized person submitting
the application on behalf of the applicant. The application shall be submitted
on a form prepared by the city. The applicant shall be obligated to demonstrate
conclusively that the proposed modification satisfies the standards set forth
herein and that the modification shall meet all applicable codes.
      (4)   Timeframe for review. Within 45 days of the date on which an
applicant submits a request seeking approval under this division (E), the city
shall approve, and may not deny, an eligible facilities request, unless it
determines that the application is not covered by this division or proposes a
substantial change to the physical dimensions of the eligible support
structure.
      (5)   Tolling of timeframe for review. The 45-day period begins to run
when the application is filed with the Community Development Department in
person during the city's regular business hours, and may be tolled only by
mutual agreement, or in cases where the city determines that the application is
incomplete.
         (a)   To toll the time frame for incompleteness, the city must provide
written notice to the applicant within 14 days of receipt of the application,
clearly and specifically delineating all missing documents or information.
         (b)   The timeframe for review begins running again when the applicant
makes a supplemental submission in response to the city's notice of
incompleteness.
         (c)   Following a supplemental submission, the city shall have ten
days to notify the applicant that the supplemental submission did not provide
the information identified in the original notice, delineating missing
information. The timeframe is tolled in the case of second or subsequent
notices pursuant to the same procedure used for the first notice of
incompleteness. Except as may be otherwise agreed to by the applicant and the
city, second or subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing
documents or information that were not delineated in the original notice of
incompleteness.
         (d)   Notices of incompleteness from the city shall be deemed received
by the applicant upon the earlier of personal service upon the applicant, three
days from deposit of the notice in the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the
applicant, or by electronic mail if the applicant has agreed to receive notices
in such a manner.
         (e)   If after submittal of the application the applicant modifies the
eligible facilities request, the modified application shall be considered a new
application subject to commencement of a new application review period.
      (6)   Health and safety codes. Nothing in this division (E) shall relieve
the applicant from compliance with applicable codes and with other laws
codifying objective standards reasonably related to health and safety. Any
eligible facilities request may be conditioned upon compliance with such codes
and other laws.
      (7)   Expiration of approval. An approved eligible facilities request
shall be valid for a term of 180 days from the date of approval or the date the
application is deemed approved.
      (8)   Not covered as an eligible facilities request. Should the city
determine that an applicant's request is not covered by Section 6409(a) of the
Spectrum Act, the presumptively reasonable time frame under 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)
(7), as prescribed by the FCC's Shot Clock order, will begin to run from the
issuance of the city's decision that the application is not a covered request.
To the extent such information is necessary, the city may request additional
information from the applicant to evaluate the application under 47 U.S.C. §
332(c)(7), pursuant to the limitations applicable to other reviews under that
statute.
      (9)   Failure to act. In the event the city fails to approve or deny a
request under this subsection within the timeframe for review, accounting for
any tolling, the request shall be deemed granted. The application deemed
granted does not become effective until the applicant notifies the city in
writing after the review period has expired, accounting for any tolling, that
the application has been deemed granted.
   (F)   Removal of abandoned or unused facilities. All abandoned or unused
communication towers or wireless communication facilities must be removed by
the property owner within 90 days of cessation of use. In the event the use of
any communication tower or wireless communication facility has been
discontinued for a period of 180 consecutive days, the tower or facility shall
be deemed to be abandoned. Except for those facilities located within public
rights-of-way, determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the
Administrative Official who shall have the right to request documentation or
affidavits from the communication tower owner/operator regarding the issue of
tower usage. Upon such abandonment, the owner/operator of the tower shall have
an additional 180 days within which to: (1) reactivate the use of the tower or
transfer the tower to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the tower,
or (2) dismantle and remove the tower. Except as provided herein, the
abandonment of wireless communication facilities within public rights-of-way
shall be managed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
97.26. All conditional use, waiver, or variance approvals for the communication
tower or wireless communication facility shall automatically expire 180 days
from the date of abandonment without reactivation or upon completion of
dismantling and removal, whichever is first, or pursuant to the notice required
by §
97.26.
   (G)   Enforcement remedies.
      (1)   A communications services provider's failure to comply with
provisions of this section shall constitute a violation of this section and
shall subject the communications services provider to the code enforcement
provisions and procedures as provided in
Chapters 30 and
37. In addition, violation of this section may be punishable as provided in
F.S. § 162.22.
      (2)   No provision of this section shall be deemed to bar the city from
seeking or obtaining judicial relief from a violation of any provisions of this
section, or any rule, regulation, or general condition provided for hereunder,
whether administratively, judicially or both. Neither the existence of other
remedies identified in this section nor the exercise thereof shall be deemed to
bar or otherwise limit the right of the city to recover fines, penalties, or
monetary damages (except where liquidated damages are otherwise prescribed) for
such violation by the communications services provider. The remedies available
to the city shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided
bylaw or equity. The laws of the State of Florida shall govern with respect to
any proceeding in law or equity pertaining to the enforcement of this section
or any cause or action arising out of or in connection herewith.
      (3)   In any proceeding before the City Commission where there exists an
issue with respect to a communications services provider's performance of its
obligations pursuant to this section, the communications services provider
shall be given the opportunity to provide such information as it may have
concerning its compliance with the terms and conditions of this section. The
city may find a communications services provider that does not demonstrate
compliance with the terms and conditions of this section in default and apply
any appropriate remedy or remedies as authorized by this section. In
determining which remedy is appropriate, the City Commission shall take into
consideration the nature of the violation, the person bearing the impact of the
violation, the nature of the remedy required in order to prevent further
violations, and such other matters as the City Commission determines are
appropriate to the public interest.
      (4)   Failure of the city to enforce any requirements of this section
shall not constitute a waiver of the city's right to enforce that violation or
subsequent violations of the same type or to seek appropriate enforcement
remedies.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 817, passed 2-6-97; Am. Ord. 1567, passed
6-15-17; Am. Ord. 1625, passed 8-20-20)
§ 154.16 SETBACKS FOR FUTURE ROAD WIDENING.
   In addition to the setback requirements contained in the specific zoning
districts and the 104-foot setback along Lake Mary Boulevard, increased
setbacks may be established under a separate ordinance to insure an adequate
setback for planned road improvements under the city comprehensive plan, the
Seminole County Comprehensive Plan, the Seminole County Capital Improvements
Budget, the Florida Department of Transportation Five Year Work Program, and
this chapter or
Chapters 155 or
156. When different setbacks are established under separate ordinances for
these road improvements, the most restrictive shall prevail.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.17 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Development within the city shall conform to all elements of the
comprehensive plan in addition to the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   No gross residential density shall exceed the maximum density
designated on the land use map of the comprehensive plan, regardless of the
density permitted by the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.18 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibitions. The parking of a prohibited vehicle or vehicles, as
defined in §
154.09, in any residential zoning district of the city, including but not
limited to: RCE, R-1A, R-1AA, R-2, or R-3, except as otherwise permitted
hereunder, is prohibited.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the continued parking of a
prohibited vehicle in any of the zoning districts identified herein if and in
the event said vehicles are actually used in the operation of a business,
commercial, or industrial operation deemed a nonconforming zoning use in any of
said districts; provided, however, that the number of vehicles so used shall
not be increased or replaced subsequent to the passage and adoption of this
section.
   (C)   Penalty. The penalty for the violation of this section shall be as
provided in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances, which is adopted word for word and made a
part of this section by reference.
(Ord. 369, passed 5-5-88)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 154.19 RESIDENTIAL TENNIS COURT REGULATIONS.
   Tennis courts will be allowed in residential districts provided they meet
the following criteria:
   (A)   A tennis court must meet the side and rear setbacks for principal
structures of the zoning district in which the tennis court is located. A
tennis court must be setback a minimum of 25 feet from the front building line,
except for properties directly abutting Lake Mary Boulevard, where the setback
shall be a minimum of 25 feet from Lake Mary Boulevard and a minimum of 25 feet
from the street rights-of-way that intersect Lake Mary Boulevard. The setbacks
shall be measured from the edge of the tennis court surface.
   (B)   Tennis courts shall be fenced. The fence shall be no greater than ten
feet in height along the base line of the court nor shall the fence be greater
than eight feet in height along the sidelines of the court.
   (C)   A chain link fence shall be required and shall be covered with a
windscreen or screened by appropriate landscaping, i.e., a hedge three feet in
height at time of planting, to reduce its impact on surrounding properties.
   (D)   Lighting must be enviro-type lighting (i.e., downward directing
shoebox lighting). The maximum number of light poles allowable is four. The
maximum height of the lighting fixture is 20 feet.
   (E)   The lighting of tennis courts shall be prohibited between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 502, passed 5-17-90; Am. Ord. 1013, passed 2-1-01) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.20 RETAINING WALL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Retaining walls shall be allowed in all districts, provided they meet
the following criteria:
      (1)   All retaining walls shall be constructed of permanent, low-
maintenance construction materials, concrete, masonry, stone and the like. Wood
timber walls shall not be permitted.
      (2)   All retaining walls, excluding tree wells (see Figure 1) over 16
inches in height shall have a textured finish. Unacceptable finishes include,
but are not limited to raw concrete, exposed concrete masonry block and stucco.
Granting the following exceptions to this regulation is authorized by city
staff (all other exceptions are to be decided by the City Commission):
         (a)   Where a retaining wall that is attached to the primary structure
of a single family residence or residential duplex, the Zoning Administrator
may determine that it have a stucco finish if the primary structure also has a
stucco finish and if the stucco finish on both the primary structure and the
retaining wall have the same texture stucco finish; or
         (b)   Where a retaining wall at a non-residential site is designed in
a manner that the general public, patrons, customers, or persons on adjacent or
nearby properties (in their present or future states of development) are
precluded from observing the retaining wall, the Development Review Committee
(DRC) may determine that the retaining wall shall not finish as otherwise
required by this section.
      (3)   Acceptable finishes include, but are not limited to the following:
patterned concrete; rock-salted concrete; split-faces or ribbed concrete
masonry; stone; brick; or tile.
      (4)   Variation in design and materials is encouraged. The final
determination of the compatibility of a retaining wall shall be made by the
City Commission, except as stated in the exceptions set forth in subsection (2)
of this section.
      (5)   The maximum height of a retaining wall shall be four feet. Height
shall be considered to be the height of the exposed vertical face of the wall.
Railing will be as required at the discretion of the Public Safety Department.
      (6)   The maximum height of a retaining wall within ten feet of a
property line shall be three feet.
      (7)   No retaining wall shall be constructed nearer than five feet to a
property line.
      (8)   A terraced or stepped series of retaining walls is acceptable,
provided that all other requirements are met. All terraced walls shall have a
minimum separation of six feet measured from face of wall to face of wall and
the grade between two retaining walls shall have a maximum horizontal/ vertical
side slope of 6:1.
      (9)   The exposed surfaces of all retaining walls shall be screened by
landscaping. The Zoning Administrator may authorize an exception to this
regulation for residential or the DRC may authorize an exception to this
regulation for non-residential and development, where the retaining wall will
not reasonably be visible to the general public, patrons, customers, or persons
on adjacent properties (in their present or future states of development). All
other exceptions are to be decided by the City Commission. At a minimum, each
wall shall provide a landscaped strip/planter at least three feet in width at
the top and base of each retaining wall. The landscape strip shall contain the
following landscaping treatment:
         (a)   A continuous hedge at least two feet in height immediately upon
planting. Hedges shall be of an evergreen species and shall be planted and
maintained so as to form a continuous, solid, visual screen within one year of
planting. Individual plants shall be spaced a maximum of 30 inches on center.
Acceptable species shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                   Common Name
Viburnum suspensum               Sandankwa Viburnum
Viburnum odoratissimum           Sweet Viburnum
Ligustrum japonicum              Wax Leaf Ligustrum
Myrica cerifera                  Wax Myrtle
Feijoa sellowiana                Feijoa
Pittosporum tobira               Pittosporum
Photinia glabra                  Red-Tip Photinia
Juniperus chinensis "Pfitzerana" Pfitzer Juniper
Azalea Indica                    Indian Azalea
Ilex cornuta                     Chinese Holly
 
         (b)   With the approval of the City Commission, other forms of
landscaped treatment may be substituted for the hedge requirement. Such
landscape treatment may include, but not be limited to, the establishment of
climbing or trailing vines on the exposed face of the retaining wall. Vines
shall be planted a maximum of five feet on center and shall have a minimum
height of two feet fanned on wall upon planting. Acceptable species shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
Botanical Name              Common Name
Ficus pumila                Creeping Fig
Hedera helix                English Ivy
Trachelospermum Jasminoides Bigleaf Confederate Jasmine
Lonicera sempervirens       Coral Honeysuckle
 
         (c)   All required landscape areas shall be irrigated. Xeriscape and
water- conserving irrigation methods are encouraged.
         (d)   Retained and preserved existing vegetation may be used to count
against landscaping requirements, if approved by the City Commission.
      (10)   All retaining walls must provide for on-site access to all grade
levels for the use of landscape maintenance equipment.
      (11)   The owner, tenant or agent of a property shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of all retaining walls on the
property.
      (12)   Unless specific variances are granted, site plan approval may be
withheld and no building permits shall be issued on lands where violation of
this section are determined to exist, until appropriate remedial action is
agreed to by the city and completed by the owner of the land. A certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued by the Building Official for any construction
until all applicable remedies have been accomplished.
      (13)   The Building official will conduct periodic inspection to assure
compliance with the requirements of this section. Notice of noncompliance may
be given by the Building Official by certified mail, with a reinspection to be
made 30 days after the first notice. Continued violation after 30 days will be
referred to the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 874, passed 3-19-98)
   (B)   The City Commission may waive various provisions of this section if
the general intent and purpose of the ordinance is maintained. Cases where a
variance may be appropriate include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The preservation of existing trees is hindered by the retaining
wall requirements; or
      (2)   There is an unusual site size, location or configuration, causing
undue hardship to site development.
(Ord. 542, passed 4-18-91)
[See hard copy of the Code for Figure.]
§ 154.21 TEMPORARY/SEASONAL USES AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   The outside sale of food, goods, and services that would include but not be
limited to the following: sidewalk vending and sales, fruit and vegetable
sales, temporary amusement or recreational activity, Christmas tree sales and
fireworks sales.
   (A)   Seasonal uses. Seasonal uses include such uses as, but not limited to,
Christmas trees and fireworks sales. These uses shall be permitted subject to
the following (except charitable, fraternal, civic or religious organizations
which shall be exempt from (A)(1) and (7):
      (1)   Location shall be in an approved commercially (C-1), (C-2) or
industrially (M1-A, M2-A) zoned area;
      (2)   Submission of written permission from the property owner or
authorized agent to the Building Department;
      (3)   Any temporary structures or outdoor storage of goods to be sold
shall not encroach in a landscape buffer;
      (4)   The site shall have proper and safe ingress and egress;
      (5)   The use shall be approved for a maximum of 30 days;
      (6)   The site must be cleaned within three days following the holiday or
event for which the sales are associated;
      (7)   Only three occupational licenses for temporary sales shall be
issued per parcel per year.
   (B)   Short term uses (72 hours or less). Short term uses shall include, but
not be limited to, bake sales, car washes, flea markets, bazaars, hot dog sales
and the like. These uses shall be permitted subject to the following (except
charitable, fraternal, civic, or religious organization, which shall be exempt
from (B)(1) and (6)):
      (1)   Location shall be in an approved commercially (C-1, C-2) or
industrially (M1-A), (M2-A) zoned area;
      (2)   Submission of written permission from the property owner or
authorized agent to the Building Department;
      (3)   Any temporary structure or outdoor storage of goods to be sold
shall not encroach in a landscape buffer;
      (4)   The site shall have proper and safe ingress and egress;
      (5)   A site may be used from sunrise to 9:00 p.m on the day or days of
the event. The site must be cleaned the following day.
      (6)   A site may be used for a short term event no more than four times
per year.
   (C)   Mobile food vendors. Mobile food vendors shall be allowed to operate
on private property, as long as they comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   Zoning requirements. The property on which the mobile food vendor
proposes to locate must be zoned designation of M-1A, M-2A or PUD. If the
property is zoned PUD, the mobile food vendor shall be located only in the
nonresidential portion of the PUD. Mobile food vendors are not allowed in
residential areas or the residential portion of mixed use PUDs.
      (2)   Primary use. Mobile food vendors are accessory uses and shall only
be allowed on properties that are developed with permitted or conditional uses
appropriate for the zoning district in which they are located.
      (3)   Signage. The amount of signage on the mobile food vendor vehicle is
not regulated but signs must be mounted flat against the vehicle and cannot
project from the vehicles. The mobile food vendor shall be permitted to place
one sign, not to exceed 6 square feet on the subject property where the mobile
food vendor's vehicle is conducting business. Such signage shall be in addition
to temporary and permanent signs permitted for the subject property, per
Chapter 155, Appendix I.
      (4)   ADA standards. The mobile food vendor vehicle and the property on
which it is located shall meet all applicable ADA requirements.
      (5)   Vehicles. All vehicles associated with mobile food vending must be
operable, per §
91.65 of the city's Code of Ordinances, and have a Florida registration and
license for the current year.
      (6)   Requirements.
         (a)   The property on which the mobile food truck proposes to locate
shall contain a minimum size of five acres, not including the area of any
adjacent out-parcels.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum separation of 750 feet between any
existing restaurant and a mobile food vendor.
         (c)   A mobile food vendor shall not locate on any property on which
there is an existing restaurant, either on the same parcel or on an out-parcel.
         (d)   A mobile food vendor vehicle must not locate in any parking
space which is required to meet the minimum number of required parking spaces
for the subject property; or in driveways; loading zones; or designated public
safety lanes (i.e. fire lanes).
         (e)   The mobile food vendor must not be located within any required
landscape buffer on the subject property.
         (f)   The subject property occupant and the mobile vendor must not
conduct business in such a manner that would restrict or interfere with proper
ingress and egress for vehicles and pedestrians, or constitute a traffic
hazard.
         (g)   Except with permission of the city, mobile food vendors may
operate only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.
         (h)   Overnight parking of mobile food vendor vehicles is prohibited.
      (7)   Licensing. Annually, the mobile food vendor must secure a City of
Lake Mary Business Tax Receipt (BTR) and pay all relevant fees, and the
applicant must provide the following:
         (a)   A notarized statement from the owner of the subject property
authorizing the mobile food vendor to operate on the subject property.
         (b)   A copy of the appropriate license(s) from the Florida Division
of Hotels and Restaurants.
         (c)   A sketch plan showing the subject property and the proposed
location of the mobile food vendor vehicle. The sketch plan shall also document
that the mobile food vendor and the subject property meet or exceed all
relevant requirements.
         (d)   Other documentation as required by the city.
      (8)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
grounds for denial of a BTR. revocation an existing BTR or bring code
enforcement or civil action against the mobile food vendor or the owner of the
subject property, or both.
(Ord. 608, passed 8-6-92; Am. Ord. 1488, passed 7-18-13)
§ 154.22 OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Outdoor lights shall be arranged as not to create a hazard or nuisance
to traffic or to adjacent properties.
   (B)   Lighting standards.
      (1)   With the exception of canopies and drive-thru overhangs, the
maximum foot-candle levels shall not exceed 10.0, with a maximum of 7.2 foot-
candles at a radius of 25 feet from the light source. For canopies and drive-
thru overhangs, the maximum foot-candles shall not exceed 30.0. Illumination
onto adjacent properties shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candles.
      (2)   Outdoor light fixtures are required to conceal the actual source of
the light or disperse the light so that the fixture reduces glare and directs
the light to specific areas while shielding others.
      (3)   When the subject property is adjacent to any residentially zoned
property, residential PUD or property with a residential land use designation,
wall-mounted and/or pole-mounted lighting fixtures within fifty feet of the
residentially zoned or designated property shall be of a shoebox design and be
downward directed. Downward directed is determined when the light from a
fixture is projected below a horizontal plane running through the lowest point
of the fixture where light is emitted. Properties separated by a street, road
and/or right-of-way of 30' or wider shall not be considered adjacent.
      (4)   All other properties may use shoebox or other type lighting
fixture, inclusive of decorative type fixtures, as long as the applicant
demonstrates to the city's satisfaction that such lighting fixtures are
downward directed and the source of illumination is shielded or the light is
diffused so as to reduce glare.
      (5)   For lights under a canopy and/or building overhang, the source of
illumination and light defusing mechanism may not extend below the ceiling of
the canopy or overhang.
      (6)   The applicant shall submit a photometric plan depicting the
location of all outdoor light sources, foot-candle dispersion on the site, and
a detail of all proposed fixtures as part of the site plan/development
application.
      (7)   The maximum height of any outdoor light, as measured from the
ground to the top of the lighting fixture or light pole, whichever is higher,
shall be 25 feet.
      (8)   The location of outdoor lights shall not conflict with landscaping.
      (9)   The minimum setback of a light-source from a property line shall be
a horizontal distance of 20 feet.
      (10)    Except for parking lot lighting, the proposed regulations shall
not be applicable to the following:
         (a)   Tennis courts, sports fields, parks, golf courses, and miniature
golf courses;
         (b)   Stadiums, arenas, amphitheaters;
         (c)   Flea markets;
         (d)   Drive-in theaters; and
         (e)   One or two family dwellings.
      (11)   With the exception of parking lot lighting, the City Commission
shall review and act upon the proposed lighting for the uses contained in (B)
(10) above. For the uses listed in (B)(10) above, the parking lot lighting
shall be reviewed as part of the site plan review process.
      (12)   Lighting directed upon the national and state flags, lighting
within rights-of-way, architectural accent lighting and other accessory uses
granted by the Land Development Code are exempt from the provisions of this
section. The city shall determine if proposed lighting is for architectural
accenting.
      (13)   For the Downtown Development Core area, see the outdoor lighting
standards in §
154.67, Downtown Development Overlay Standards.
      (14)   Lighting for signage shall comply with the provisions of
Chapter 155, Appendix I.
(Ord. 1052, passed 3-21-02)
§ 154.23 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   All fences, gates, walls, or posts must be contained on-site, but may
be constructed up to the property line except where prohibited below. The
height of a fence or wall is measured from the finished ground elevation, not
the footer, to the top of the fence or wall. The finished ground elevation
shall extend a distance of at least one foot on either side of a wall or up to
the property line as determined by staff. The top of a wall footer shall be
buried a minimum of six inches below the finished ground elevation and not
placed beyond the property line. The post, column, or like features may not
exceed two feet above the top of the fence or wall. Posts of fencing shall be
positioned inward of the property where applicable (i.e. for wood panel
fencing, the slats attached to the rail would face outward and the posts would
be placed inward).
      (1)   Residential Districts. Fences and walls may be permitted provided
that no fence or wall shall be erected within 20 feet of a corner intersection
of street rights-of-way nor shall any fence or wall be erected within the front
or street side setbacks, except for decorative fences or walls which shall not
exceed six feet in height (see §
154.09 Definitions "FENCE AND WALL, DECORATIVE"). Fences or walls located
within the front yard or street side setbacks shall be limited to a maximum
height of six feet, except as allowed in this code within the Lake Mary
Boulevard Gateway Corridor (§
158.10). A fence or wall shall be limited to a maximum height of eight feet in
the rear and side yards. No electrically charged wire, nor any ribbon, barbed,
or other security fences shall be erected in any residential district. Property
with a combination of Rural Country Estate (RCE) zoning and Rural Residential
(RR) future land use designation may utilize vinyl coated (black or green)
chain-link fencing material within the front yard setback and to a maximum of
six feet.
      (2)   Non-residential districts. Fences or walls located within front
yard or street side setbacks must not interfere with the line-of-sight analysis
for purposes of public health and safety and shall be limited to a maximum
height of six feet, except as allowed in this code within the Lake Mary
Boulevard Gateway Corridor (§
158.10). A fence or wall shall be limited to a maximum height of eight feet in
the rear and side yards. Electrically charged wire, ribbon, barbed wire, or
other security fence may only be erected in industrial zoned districts,
provided that such use is limited to three strands, a minimum of six feet above
the ground.
      (3)   Public utilities. A fence or wall shall be limited to a maximum
height of ten feet within any setback. Electrically charged wire, ribbon,
barbed wire, or other security fence shall be limited to three strands, a
minimum of six feet above the ground.
      (4)   Government owned lands. Government units owning lands such as
property owned and exclusively used by any local, state, and federal
governmental units, and including but not limited to parks, open space areas,
preserves and other facilities, may not construct any fence or wall until after
first obtaining approval from the Development Review Committee (DRC). That
approval shall be based on, among other things, design criteria, materials,
height, appearance and safety considerations.
      (5)   Maintenance.
         (a)   All fences and walls shall be maintained in their original
upright condition.
         (b)   Fences and walls designed for painting or similar surface
finishes shall be maintained in their original condition as designed.
         (c)   Missing, severely damaged or rotted boards, pickets, or posts
shall be replaced in a timely manner with material of the same type and
quality.
      (6)   Wall materials.
         (a)   All freestanding walls must be constructed of a permanent, low
maintenance finish such as patterned concrete, rock-salted concrete, split face
block, ribbed concrete, stone, or brick.
         (b)   Purpose and intent. This material requirement applies to
residential and non-residential areas, and any wall or screening structure not
specifically addressed by other provisions of this Code (see Retaining walls (
154.20(A)); Wall as a visual screen (
157.04); Dumpster Enclosures (
157.06(A)); and Walls within the Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards (
158.10).
   (B)   Permit required. All fences and walls must obtain an approved building
permit prior to construction and/or installation.
(Ord. 1076, passed 10-3-02; Am. Ord. 1147, passed 10-7-04; Am. Ord. 1505,
passed 5-1-14)
§ 154.24 COLLECTION BINS.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It is the duty and responsibility of both the property owner and
the collection bin owner to comply with the provisions of this section co-
equally. The property owner and collection bin owner are individually, jointly
and severally liable for any violation of this section.
      (2)   The collection bin owner must obtain written consent from the
property owner or legal designee to establish the collection bin.
   (B)   Each collection bin is subject to a local business tax receipt under
Chapter 111.
   (C)   Location and site requirements.
      (1)   Collection bins are only permitted on developed property located in
the city’s commercial or industrial zoning districts: PO, C-1 , C-2, M-1A, M-
2A.
      (2)   Collection bins must be located on improved, level, paved surfaces
which constitute part of the location.
      (3)   Collection bins must:
         (a)   Not exceed six feet in height; five feet in width; and five feet
in depth.
         (b)   Not be placed on vacant land, unimproved parcels or lots.
         (c)   Not be placed on public property.
         (d)   Not be placed in public rights-of-way, utility easements or
utility
corridors.
         (e)   Not be placed in landscaped areas.
         (f)   Not be placed within 100 feet of a residential property line.
         (g)   Not be placed within 20 feet of a public right-of-way.
         (h)   Not cause a visual obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
         (i)   Not interfere with required off-street parking spaces.
      (4)   Collection bins must be constructed of metal or other appropriate
material, and must be constructed so as to not be accessible by anyone other
than those responsible for retrieval of the contents of the bins.
      (5)   The collection bins shall be serviced as needed, but no less than
once every seven days.
      (6)   Any and all items or material left outside the collection bin must
be
removed within 24 hours of discovery of the items or material, or upon
notification of the condition by the city.
      (7)   No more than two collection bins shall be allowed on a property,
and collection bins must be separated by a minimum distance of ten feet.
(Ord. 1611, passed 9-19-19)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Commission shall appoint a board to be
composed of five qualified electors of the city, to be known as the Planning
and Zoning Board. In addition, the City Commission may appoint one qualified
elector of the city to serve as an alternate member, designating them as such.
The alternate member shall only vote in the temporary absence or disability of
any regular member or vote when a regular member is otherwise disqualified in a
particular case that may be brought before the Board. The initial term of the
alternate member shall expire December 31, 2001. Thereafter, the term shall be
for three years.
   (B)   Terms. The members shall serve a term of three years commencing on the
first day of January.
   (C)   Qualification of members. Members shall be electors of the city and
shall be chosen from persons in a position to represent the public interest,
and shall come from diverse vocational backgrounds.
   (D)   Removal of a member. Members of the Planning and Zoning Board may be
removed as provided in §
30.15 of the code of ordinances.
   (E)   Vacancies on the Planning and Zoning Board. Vacancies on the Planning
and Zoning Board shall be filled by appointment by the City Commission for the
unexpired term of the member affected. It shall be the duty of the Chairperson
of the Planning and Zoning Board to notify the Mayor within ten days of the
occurrence.
   (F)   Compensation and expenses of members. Members of the Planning and
Zoning Board shall receive no salary or fees for service on the Board, but may
receive actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties of office, payable in a manner determined by City Commission resolution.
   (G)   Officers. The Planning and Zoning Board shall select a Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson in January of each year from among its members, and may create
and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (H)   Powers and duties of the Planning and Zoning Board. It shall be the
duty of the Planning and Zoning Board:
      (1)   To make recommendations to the City Commission on all proposed
changes of zoning, to make recommendations to the City Commission on variances
to Chapters
156 and
160, as well as granting variances to §§
154.14 and
154.55 through
154.66. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
administrative official charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
         The Planning and Zoning Board shall have the general responsibility
for the conduct of the comprehensive planning program and the preparation of
the comprehensive plan, or elements or portions thereof. The Board shall
monitor and oversee the effectiveness and status of the comprehensive plan and
recommend to the City Commission changes in the comprehensive plan that may
from time to time be required. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning
Board to prepare the comprehensive plan with required elements as provided in
F.S. Chapter 163, as may be amended from time to time. Final adoption of the
comprehensive plan or any amendment or alteration to it shall be by City
Commission approval.
      (2)   With respect to all areas of the Planning and Zoning Board's
responsibilities, it shall be the duty of the Board to review applications,
take testimony, and examine relevant materials and other review information
available to it in order to form a basis for its recommendations to the City
Commission.
      (3)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the administrative
official charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
      (4)   Variances from the terms of §§
154.14 and
154.55 through
154.66 shall not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would
result in unnecessary hardship. In order to authorize any variance from the
terms of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Board, and the City Commission
on appeal, must and shall find:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same zoning
districts; and
         (b)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant; and
         (c)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the ordinance to other lands,
buildings, or structures in the same zoning district; and
         (d)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of the ordinance
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zoning district under the terms of the ordinance and would work
unnecessary and undue hardship on the applicant; and
         (e)   That the variance granted is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land, building, or structure; and
         (f)   That the grant of the variance will be in harmony with the
general intent and purpose of the ordinance, will not be injurious to the
neighborhood, or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter. Violation of those
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable
as provided by this chapter.
      (6)   Under no circumstances shall the Board grant a variance to permit a
use not generally permitted in the district involved, or any use expressly or
by implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter in that district.
However, this section is not intended to diminish the general appeal powers to
administrative decisions of the Zoning Administrator, as outlined in division
(H)(1) above.
      (7)   Nonconforming uses of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings
in the same district, and permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings in
other districts, shall not be considered grounds for the issuance of a
variance.
   (I)   Rules of procedure. The Planning and Zoning Board shall adopt rules of
procedure necessary to govern the conduct of its affairs in keeping with state
laws and these regulations. A copy of the rules of procedure shall be available
in written form to the public.
   (J)   Prompt forwarding to City Commission. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall, after reviewing a proposed change, promptly submit in writing its
recommendations to the City Commission for any official action within 14 days.
   (K)   Mandatory procedures by the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (1)   All matters which fall within the scope of the responsibilities of
the Planning and Zoning Board shall be submitted to the Board for its
consideration and recommendation prior to official action by the City
Commission.
      (2)   Notice of application. Within seven days of receipt by the city of
an application for rezoning, variance, vacation, conditional use, site plan or
subdivision, a notice shall be posted stating that an application for the
particular land use action requested has been received by the city and
stipulating whom to contact at the city for more information. Additionally, no
less than 15 days before an item is scheduled to be reviewed and acted upon,
the applicant shall post on the subject property a notice (on a form specified
by the city), stating that an application for the particular land use action
requested has been received by the city, stipulating the decision making board,
address of the location where the hearing will be held, the date and time of
the hearing(s) and the name and telephone number of whom to contact at the city
for information concerning this item. The notice shall be posted by the
applicant in a conspicuous place on the lot, parcel, or tract of land to which
the application pertains, so as to be visible from a public street or road
adjacent to the property.
      (3)   The Board shall consider each item on its agenda and take
appropriate action.
      (4)   The Board may, from time to time, request additional information
from the applicant or other sources bearing on the applications, and, until the
formal recommendation has been made, may reconsider any aspect of the
application even though previously reviewed.
      (5)   Any recommendation for denial shall be accompanied by a finding of
fact.
   (L)   Voting.
      (1)   All members of the Board are voting members.
      (2)   A quorum of the Board necessary to conduct official business shall
consist of three members present in person.
      (3)   Each member shall vote on each matter presented for a vote before
the Board unless that vote is excused or prohibited by law.
   (M)   Conflict and disclosure.
      (1)   No member of the Planning and Zoning Board shall vote in an
official capacity upon any matter which grants to the member special private
gain, nor shall the member knowingly vote in an official capacity upon any
measure which adds to the special gain of any principal by whom the member is
retained.
      (2)   Any member having a conflict of interest as defined by state
statutes shall, prior to the vote being taken, state the nature of interest in
the matter, and, within 15 days after the vote occurs, disclose the nature of
his interest as a public record in a memorandum filed with the City Clerk, who
shall incorporate the memorandum as part of the minutes of that meeting.
   (N)   Representing others prohibited.
      (1)   No member of the Planning and Zoning Board shall appear before the
Planning and Zoning Board, or the City Commission as an agent or attorney for
another.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall prevent a member from representing himself
before any of the above boards or the City Commission.
   (O)   Appeals from Planning and Zoning Board decisions on §§
154.14 and
154.55 through
154.66.
      (1)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Planning and Zoning Board, may, within 30 days after the filing
of any decision in the office of the Board, but not thereafter, apply to the
courts or the City Commission for relief.
      (2)   An appeal to the City Commission shall stop all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed. The City Commission shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of the appeal; give public notice thereof, as well as due
notice to the parties in interest; and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Upon the hearing, any party may appeal.
   (P)   Time limit. Any variance granted by the Planning and Zoning Board or
City Commission shall expire one year after the effective date of the action by
the Planning and Zoning Board or City Commission, unless a development
application or development permit based upon and incorporating the variance is
approved or action is taken by the applicant which concludes the need for the
variance within that one year period. A maximum extension of six months may be
granted provided good cause is shown and provided the conditions of the
variance approval have not changed. An application for extension shall be filed
with the Planning and Zoning Board or City Commission at least 30 days prior to
the expiration of the one year period. An extension may be granted without
public hearing. A reapplication administration fee shall be charged in an
amount equal to the amount of the original application fee.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 345, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 389, passed
9-15-88; Am. Ord. 536, passed 1-17-91; Am. Ord. 592, passed 2-20-92; Am. Ord.
597, passed 4-2-92; Am. Ord. 598, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 676, passed 12-2-93;
Am. Ord. 917, passed 3-4-99; Am. Ord. 1100, passed 8-7-03; Am. Ord. 1505,
passed 5-1-14)
Cross-reference:
   Establishment of Planning and Zoning Board, see §
30.15
§ 154.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries and identification of the zoning districts established by
this chapter are shown on the official zoning map of the city as filed in the
office of the City Clerk. This map is hereby declared to be incorporated in
this chapter as fully as if set out herein. No building or land shall be used,
and no building shall be erected or altered, except in conformity with the
regulations prescribed in this chapter for the district designated and
identified on the official zoning map in which the building or land is located.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.27 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING REGULATIONS AND MAP.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed in accordance
with the following regulations.
   (A)   General procedure for amendments. The general procedure for the
amendment of this chapter is as follows.
      (1)   A zoning amendment may be proposed by:
         (a)   The City Commission;
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Board;
         (c)   Any department or agency of the city; or
         (d)   Any individual, corporation, or agency.
      (2)   All proposed zoning amendments and changes to restrictions or
regulations to be enforced therein shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board for study and recommendation. The Planning and Zoning Board shall
study these proposals to determine:
         (a)   The need and justification for the change;
         (b)   The effect of the change, if any, on the particular property and
on surrounding properties;
         (c)   The amount of undeveloped land in the general area and in the
city having the same classifications as that requested; and
         (d)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to the purpose of the
city's comprehensive plan, with appropriate consideration as to whether the
proposed change will further the purposes of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan.
      (3)   No recommendation for a zoning change or amendment to the
restrictions or regulations to be enforced therein may be considered by the
Planning and Zoning Board until the request has been reviewed in accordance
with the general procedures of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit the request for change
or amendment to the City Commission with written reasons for its
recommendations, and its determinations related to the items listed in division
(A)(2) above and other related issues.
      (5)   If a Planning and Zoning Board recommendation for change is not
acted upon by the City Commission within six months of the date of its receipt
by the City Commission, the petition upon which the recommendation was based
shall be deemed to have been denied.
   (B)   Limitations.
      (1)   No amendment to rezone property shall contain conditions,
limitations, or requirements not applicable to all other property in the
district to which the particular property is rezoned, except that planned unit
development rezoning shall not be subject to the limitations of this section.
      (2)   Whenever the City Commission has taken action to deny a petition to
rezone property, the city shall not:
         (a)   Consider any further petition for the same rezoning of all or
any part of the same property for a period of one year from the date of that
action.
         (b)   Consider a petition for any other kind of zoning on all or any
part of the same property for a period of six months from the date of that
action.
      (3)   Whenever the City Commission has, by amendment, changed the zoning
of any property, the Planning and Zoning Board shall not consider any petition
for rezoning of all or any part of the same property for a period of six months
from the effective date of the amendatory ordinance.
      (4)   The time limits of this section may be waived by the City
Commission when such action is deemed necessary to prevent injustice.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 597, passed 4-2-92)
§ 154.28 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, or his designate, shall administer and
enforce this chapter with the assistance of the Code Enforcement Board, and
other administrative officials and officers of the city.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.29 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
structurally altered without a permit therefor, issued by the Building
Official. No building permit shall be issued except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, or except after written order from the Board of
Adjustment or the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see §
154.999
Cross-reference:
   Building permits, see §
150.06
§ 154.30 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The City Commission shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses, and a collection procedure for appeals and other matters pertaining
to this chapter.
   (B)   No application for variance, rezoning, or land use plan amendment
shall be accepted unless or until charges and fees have been paid in full.
City-initiated petitions shall not be subject to these charges and fees. Fees
may be waived for an applicant who presents a certificate from the Director of
the County Welfare Department stating that the applicant is qualified to
receive either federal, state, or county welfare assistance and is unable to
afford the subject application fee.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Cross-reference:
   City Commission may change fees and charges by resolution, see §
154.03
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS, BOUNDARIES, AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 154.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to classify, regulate, and restrict the uses of land, water,
buildings, and structures; to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of
buildings; and to regulate the area of yards, courts, and open spaces above and
around buildings, the city is divided into districts as follows:
   (A)   A-1 Agriculture.
   (B)   R-CE Rural Country Estates.
   (C)   R-1AAA Single-Family.
   (D)   R-1AA Single-Family.
   (E)   R-1A Single-Family.
   (F)   R-1B Single-Family.
   (G)   R-2   One- and Two-Family.
   (H)   R-3 Multiple Family.
   (I)   R-M Mobile Home Park.
   (J)   PUD Planned Unit Development.
   (K)   PO Professional Office.
   (L)   C-1 General Commercial.
   (M)   C-2 Commercial District.
   (N)   M-1A Office and Light Industrial.
   (O)   M-2A Industrial District.
   (P)   DC Downtown Centre.
   (Q)   GU Governmental Use.
   (R)   School Locational Criteria.
   (S)   BLM Big Lake Mary Overlay.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 449, passed 8-3-89; Am. Ord. 1219, passed
11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1342, passed 1-21-10)
§ 154.41 STATUTORY USES.
   Statutory uses: Mixed Use multi-family development pursuant to the Live
Local Act, F.S. § 166.04151, as it may be amended. For purposes of this
section, “Mixed Use” means a combination of residential uses and their
amenities with nonresidential uses, where the percentage of FAR devoted to
nonresidential uses is at least 35% of the total FAR. The nonresidential uses
shall be those uses allowed as permitted or conditional uses provided in the
underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
§ 154.42 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where the phrases, “all residential districts,” “residential districts,”
“zoned residentially,” or “residentially zoned,” or phraseology of similar
intent, are used in the zoning regulations, the phrases shall be construed to
include the following districts:
   (A)   A-1.
   (B)   R-CE.
   (C)   R-1AAA.
   (D)   R-1AA.
   (E)   R-1A.
   (F)   R-1B.
   (G)   R-2.
   (H)   R-3.
   (I)   PUD.
   (J)   Big Lake Mary Overlay.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 449, passed 8-3-89; Am. Ord. 1342, passed
1-21-10; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
§ 154.43 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where the phrases “commercial districts,” “commercially zoned,” “commercial
zoning,” or phraseology of similar intent are used in these zoning regulations,
the phrases shall be construed to include:
   (A)   C-2 Commercial District.
   (B)   C-1 General Commercial.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
§ 154.44 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where the phrases “industrial districts,” “zoned industrially,”
“industrially zoned,” “industrial zoning,” or phraseology of similar intent are
used in these zoning regulations, the phrases shall be construed to include:
   (A)   M-1A Office and Light Industrial.
   (B)   M-2A Industrial District.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
§ 154.45 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the districts as
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Centerlines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of dedicated streets, highways, alleys, or rights-of-way shall be
construed as following the centerlines as they exist on the ground, except
where variation of the actual location from the mapped location would change
the zoning status of any lot or parcel. In the case of a street closure, the
boundary shall be construed as remaining in its location except where ownership
of the vacated street is divided other than at the center, in which case the
boundary shall be construed as moving with the ownership.
   (B)   Lot lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines,
public property lines, and the like shall be construed as following those
lines. However, where such boundaries are adjacent to a dedicated street,
alley, highway, or right-of-way, the boundaries shall be construed as running
to the middle of the street, highway, alley, or right-of-way. In the event of
street closure, interpretation shall be provided as in division (A) above.
   (C)   City limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
limits shall be construed as following the city limits.
   (D)   Railroad tracks. Boundaries indicated as following railroad tracks
shall be construed as being midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Mean-high-water lines. Boundaries indicated as following mean-high-
water lines or centerlines of streams, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water
shall be construed as following those mean-high-water lines or centerlines. In
case of a change in mean high water line, or of the course or extent of bodies
of water, the boundaries shall be construed as moving with the change, except
where such moving would change the zoning status of a lot or parcel; and in
that case, the boundary shall be interpreted in a manner as to avoid changing
the zoning status of any lot or parcel.
   (F)   Body of water. Boundaries indicated as entering any body of water but
not continuing to an intersection with other zoning boundaries or with the
limits of jurisdiction of the city, shall be construed as extending in the
direction in which they enter the body of water to an intersection with other
zoning boundaries or with the limits of city jurisdiction.
   (G)   Boundaries parallel. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions
of features indicated in divisions (A) through (F) above shall be construed as
being parallel to or extensions of those features.
   (H)   Distances. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning
map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (I)   Other cases. In cases not covered above, or where the property or
street layout existing on the ground is at variance with that shown on the
official zoning map, the Zoning Administrator shall interpret the official
zoning map in accord with the intent and purpose of these zoning regulations.
Appeals from the interpretation of the Zoning Administrator shall be only to
the Planning and Zoning Board in conformity with these zoning regulations.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14)
§ 154.46 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations herein set forth within each district shall be minimums or
maximums, as the case may be, and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind
of structure, use, land, or water.
   (A)   Multiple use of required space prohibited. No part of a required yard
or other required open space, or required of street parking or off-street
loading space, provided in connection with one building, structure, or use,
shall be included as meeting the requirements for any other building,
structure, or use, except where specific provision is made in these zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Reduction of lot area prohibited. No lot or yard existing at the
effective date of these zoning regulations shall thereafter be reduced in size,
dimension, or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein, except by
reason of a portion being acquired for public use in any manner, including
dedication, condemnation, purchase, and the like. Lots or yards created after
the effective date of these zoning regulations shall meet at least the minimum
requirements established herein.
   (C)   Combination of lot areas. If two or more lots, or combinations of lots
and portions of lots with continuous frontage in single ownership, are of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of these zoning
regulations, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements
established for lot width and for area, the lands involved shall be considered
to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of these zoning regulations; no
division of any parcels shall be made which creates a lot with a width or area
below the requirements herein stated.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.47 VARIANCES.
   Variances to the zoning regulations will be in accordance with the powers
granted to the Planning and Zoning Board, as outlined in §
154.25(H).
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.55 A-1 AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and stabilize those areas within the city that are appropriate for
agricultural uses and to preserve the open character of certain environmentally
sensitive lands. Lands in the A-1 Agriculture District are largely devoted to
the production of citrus fruits, cattle grazing, general farming, and include
swamp lands and rural residential areas. As the need and demand for additional
land suitable for urban development is determined by the Planning and Zoning
Board and the City Commission, selected portions of this district may be
rezoned for more intensive forms of development. Areas of the city for which
this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the comprehensive plan as
rural residential/agriculture or conservation.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the A-1 District shall be used, and no building
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the
permitted and conditional uses listed below. The uses listed as conditional are
permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   General farming, citrus cultivation and production, dairies,
silviculture, agriculture, cattle grazing, cattle production, and horse
pasturing.
         (b)   Single-family dwellings, with their customary accessory uses.
         (c)   General poultry for family consumption only.
         (d)   A tenant dwelling, provided that the following conditions are
met:
            1.   The land must be utilized for a bona fide agricultural use
that encompasses three or more acres.
            2.   The structure must conform to building area regulations.
            3.   The structure shall house only those persons employed on-site
in carrying out the bona fide agricultural use, and their immediate family.
         (e)   A guest house or garage apartment incidental to the operation
and use of the property.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Cemeteries. Funeral homes and mausoleums may each be permitted
as an ancillary use to a cemetery subject to conditional use approval, but may
not be permitted as a singular use when not in association with a cemetery.
Such uses shall provide sufficient on-site parking, staging areas and/or
service drives in order to accommodate parking and staging of funeral
processions. Streets and public right-of-ways shall not be used for parking or
to form funeral processions.
         (b)   Veterinary hospitals and kennels.
         (c)   Churches and structures pertinent thereto.
         (d)   Country and golf clubs, fishing clubs.
         (e)   Fish ponds, when approved in accordance with applicable state,
federal, and county regulations and laws.
         (f)   Bait production and sales, provided that any sales structure is
set back at least 50 feet from the front or side line of the property.
         (g)   Community services and facilities.
         (h)   Retail or wholesale plant production, nurseries, and
greenhouses.
         (i)   Nursery schools, kindergarten, and day care centers.
         (j)   Fraternal clubs when chartered with the state.
   (C)   Site development standards. The following minimum standards are hereby
established to maintain the purpose of the district, to promote the safe and
efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and to otherwise
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Variable side-yard
setbacks within the stated range are permitted to encourage innovative site
planning and the preservation of trees.
      (1)   Minimum lot size (above the mean high water line), 3 acres.
      (2)   Minimum site width at building line, 200 feet.
      (3)   Minimum street frontage, 35 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard, 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yard, a combined setback of 20 feet with a minimum
dimension in each yard of eight feet.
         (c)   Rear yard, 30 feet.
      (5)   Maximum building height, 35 feet.
      (6)   Within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district, the minimum
building floor area, excluding carports, garages, porte cocheres, breezeways
and screened porches = 1,600 square feet.
   (D)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to Appendix B of
Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
      (4)   Properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
      (5)   When there is a conflict between of the Big Lake Mary overlay
zoning district, the provisions of §
154.90 take precedence.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 427, passed 5-18-89; Am. Ord. 503, passed
5-17-90; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-26-99; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord.
1282, passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.56 R-CE RURAL COUNTRY ESTATES.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and stabilize those geographic areas that are appropriate for the
development and maintenance of rural, country-like, single- family residential
estates of at least one acre in size. These areas are characterized by large
open spaces, single-family dwelling units, and limited agricultural activities
which do not create a detrimental effect on surrounding properties. Areas of
the city for which this category is appropriate are designated on the
comprehensive plan as rural residential/agricultural or low-density
residential.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the R-CE District shall be used, and no
building shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except
for the permitted and conditional uses listed below. The uses listed as
conditional are permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings and their customary accessory uses.
         (b)   A guest house or garage apartment incidental to the operation
and use of the property.
         (c)   Horses or fowl, provided that no more than one horse per acre of
pasture and 12 fowl shall be kept on site.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Community services and facilities.
         (b)   Golf courses and country clubs.
         (c)   Churches and structures appurtenant thereto.
   (C)   Site development standards. The following minimum standards are hereby
established to maintain the purpose of the district to promote the safe and
efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and to otherwise
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Variable side-yard
setbacks within the stated range are permitted to encourage innovative site
planning and the preservation of trees.
      (1)   Minimum lot size (above the mean-high-water line), one acre.
      (2)   Minimum site width at building line, 150 feet.
      (3)   Minimum street frontage, 35 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard, 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yard, a combined setback of 20 feet with a minimum
dimension in each yard of eight feet.
      (5)   Maximum building height, 35 feet.
      (6)   Minimum building floor area, 1,600 square feet, excluding carports,
garages, porte cocheres, breezeways, and screened or open porches.
   (D)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to Appendix B of
Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
      (4)   Properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
      (5)   When there is a conflict between the provisions contained in this
section and the provisions of the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district, the
provisions of §
154.90 take precedence.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 427, passed 5-18-89; Am. Ord. 503, passed
5-17-90; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1282, passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord.
1647, passed 10-7-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.57 R-1AAA, R-1AA, R-1A, and R-1B SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   Description of district. These districts are established in order to
identify and to stabilize those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of a low- density, single-
family residential environment. Areas of the city for which these categories
are appropriate are designed on the comprehensive plan as low-, medium- low-,
or medium-density residential.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the R-1AAA, R-1AA, R-1A, and/or R-1B districts
shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected, structurally
altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional uses listed
below. The uses listed as conditional are permitted only after approval in
accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses: Single-family dwellings and their customary
accessory uses.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Churches and structures appurtenant thereto.
         (b)   Community services and facilities.
         (c)   Temporary sales office (see §
154.11).
   (C)   Site development standards. The following minimum standards are hereby
established to maintain the purpose of the district, to promote the safe and
efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and to otherwise
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Variable side-yard
setbacks within the stated range are permitted to encourage innovative site
planning and the preservation of trees.
                                                                         R-1AAA   R-1AA    R-1A     R-1B
                                                                         21,780   14,000   10,890   5,000
(1)   Minimum lot sq. ft. (above the mean-high-water line)            square   square   square   square
                                                                         feet     feet     feet     feet
(2)   Minimum site width at building line                             115 feet 95 feet  75 feet  50
                                                                                                    feet
(3)   Minimum street frontage                                         35 feet  35 feet  35 feet  35
                                                                                                    feet
(4)   Minimum setbacks
      (a)   Front yard                                          25 feet  25 feet  25 feet  10
                                                                                                    feet
                                                                         A        A        A
                                                                         combined combined combined
                                                                         setback  setback  setback
                                                                         of 30    of 20    of 20
                                                                         feet     feet     feet
      (b)   Side yard                                           with a   with a   with a   5 feet
                                                                         minimum  minimum  minimum
                                                                         of 12    of 8     of 8
                                                                         feet for feet in  feet in
                                                                         one side one side one side
                                                                         yard     yard     yard
      (c)   Rear yard                                           30 feet  30 feet  30 feet  20
                                                                                                    feet
(5)    Maximum building height                                        35 feet  35 feet  35 feet  35
                                                                                                    feet
(6)   Minimum building floor area, excluding carports, garages, porte 1,300    1,300    1,100    1,100
cocheres, breezeways, and screened or open porches
 
   (D)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to
Appendix B of Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
      (4)   Properties located within the Big Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
      (5)   When there is a conflict between the provisions contained in this
section and the provisions of the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district, the
provisions of §
154.90 take precedence.
      (6)   The R-1B zoning designation is applicable only to property of 75 or
more acres that is adjacent to Interstate Highway 4.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 427, passed 5-18-89; Am. Ord. 449, passed
8-3-89; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1282, passed 3-6- 08; Am. Ord.
1342, passed 1-21-10; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.58 R-2 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and stabilize those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of a medium-density residential
environment. The purpose of this district is to limit construction to the
development of higher-density single- family dwellings (including cluster homes
and patio homes) and large-lot two-family dwellings (duplexes). Areas of the
city for which this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the
comprehensive plan as medium-low- and medium-density residential.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the R-2 District shall be used, and no building
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the
permitted and conditional uses listed below. The uses listed as conditional are
permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Two-family dwellings (duplex) with the customary accessory uses.
         (b)   Single-family dwellings with their customary accessory uses.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Churches and their appurtenant uses.
         (b)   Community services and facilities.
         (c)   Temporary sales office (see §
154.11).
   (C)   Site development standards. The following standards are hereby
established to maintain the purpose of the district, to promote the functional
compatibility of use, to promote the safe and efficient circulation of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (1)   Minimum lot size, above the mean-high-water line.
         (a)   Each single-family unit shall be located on a lot or parcel
having a land area not less than 7,500 square feet.
         (b)   Each duplex structure shall be located on a lot or parcel having
a land area not less than 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum site width at building line, 75 feet.
      (3)   Minimum street frontage, 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard, 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yard, a combined setback of 20 feet with a minimum
dimension in each yard of eight feet.
         (c)   Rear yard, 30 feet.
      (5)   Maximum building height, 35 feet.
      (6)   Minimum building floor area per dwelling unit, excluding carports,
garages, porte cocheres, breezeways, and screened and open porches, 750 square
feet.
   (D)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to Appendix B of
Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
      (4) Properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
       (5) When there is a conflict between the provisions contained in this
section and the provisions of the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district, the
provisions of §
154.90 takes precedence.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1282,
passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.59 R-3 MULTIPLE FAMILY.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and stabilize those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of high-density residential
development. Due to the higher than average concentration of persons and
vehicles, this district must have convenient access to arterials or collectors
and have adequate public and commercial services. Areas of the city for which
this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the comprehensive plan as
high-density residential.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the R-3 District shall be used, and no building
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the
permitted and conditional uses listed below. The uses listed as conditional are
permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   All R-2 permitted uses.
         (b)   Fee simple single family attached dwellings.
         (c)   Multi-family dwelling and special uses and structures designed
primarily for service to occupants of the multi-family dwellings.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Community services and facilities.
         (b)   Churches with their appurtenant structures.
         (c)   Schools, public and private.
         (d)   Adult congregate living facilities.
         (e)   Nursing homes.
         (f)   Daytime child care centers.
         (g)   Any structure exceeding 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Site development standards.
      (1)   All fee simple dwellings, including single family detached and
single family attached developments, are subject to the relevant provisions of
Chapter 155 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances. All other developments
are subject to the relevant provisions of Chapter 156.
      (2)   The following standards are hereby applicable to all R-3 zoned
developments:
         (a)   Maximum site size (above mean high-water-line), one acre.
         (b)   Maximum gross residential density, 9 du/a.
         (c)   Minimum street frontage, 50 feet.
         (d)   Minimum building setback from property line shall be determined
by the minimum landscape buffers, per
Chapter 157, but in no case shall the minimum building setback be less than 25
feet from any external property line and/or off-site roadway.
         (e)   Maximum building height, 35 feet.
   (D)   Fee simple development standards.
      (1)   For fee simple one and two family developments, refer to the
development standards contained in §
154.58.
      (2)   All fee simple developments are subject to the relevant provisions
of
Chapter 157 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   The following development standards are applicable to each lot in
all fee simple single family developments with three or more attached units:
         (a)   Minimum lot width, 21 feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot area, 2,400 square feet.
         (c)   Minimum internal side yard setback, 0 feet.
         (d)   Minimum dwelling unit size, 1,600 square feet.
         (e)   Maximum of six units per building.
         (f)   Minimum 20 foot separation between buildings.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to Appendix B of
Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
      (4)   Properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
      (5)   When there is a conflict between the provisions contained in this
section and the provisions of the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district, the
provisions of §
154.90 takes precedence.
      (6)   The first floor of each building must be nonresidential and all
floors must be built out in one phase. The nonresiden- tial use must have a
certificate of occupancy before the residential use is given a certificate of
occupancy.
      (7)   At least two uses are required in each multi-family building, both
residential and high end commercial or class-A office. Home-based businesses or
institutional uses are not appropriate second uses. "HIGH END COMMERCIAL" means
specialty retail stores focusing on certain categories of goods. "CLASS-
A OFFICE" means premier office space with high quality finishes, amenities, and
technology systems.
      (8)   The first floor of each multi-family building must be concrete.
      (9)   Minimum multi-family and condominium unit size: one-bedroom must be
larger than 750 square feet; two-bedroom must be larger than 1.000 square feet;
three or more bedrooms must be larger than 1.350 square feet.
      (10)   Minimum multi-family and condominium building setback: 50 feet for
buildings greater than 35 feet or when adjacent to single-family residential
use or zoning. The building setbacks for R-3 zoning applies for buildings 35
feet or less.
      (11)   Amenities required within multi-family developments include:
         (a)   Each unit must have an in-unit washer/dryer and an independent
balcony. All balconies shall be a minimum of 54 square feet of clear,
unobstructed space, at least six feet in depth. Balconies may be covered and
screened but cannot be fully enclosed. False, Faux, Juliet/Juliette,
Balconette, and other similar ornamental or standing-type balconies shall not
be considered a balcony and are prohibited where a balcony is referenced in
this section.
         (b)   Pool with restrooms.
         (c)   Gymnasium.
         (d)   Park space,
         (e)   Doggy runs (if pets are allowed).
         (f)   Internal concierge trash service.
         (g)   Enhanced landscaping to include a minimum-ten-foot-wide planting
area for building foundation landscaping, with a minimum of two understory
trees and five shrubs for every 40 feet of facade length. The remainder of the
planting area shall be landscaped with groundcover or other landscape
treatment. A minimum-ten-foot-wide landscape strip is required where four or
more rows of parking spaces abut; one canopy tree, one understory tree and
three shrubs must be planted for every 100 feet in length.
         (h)    Minimum-eight-foot-wide sidewalks.
         (i)   Flex office space.
         (j)   Parking garages must be provided for all units. An additional
0.25 spaces per dwelling unit for guests, provided either on-street internal to
the development or in an off-street parking lot. A minimum of one electric
vehicle charging station must be provided for a development requiring more than
50 parking spaces. The charging station shall serve two parking spaces.
      (12)   Enhanced architectural standards are required to be integrated
into the building form to break up large building mass and long walls.
Architectural features shall be displayed on all sides of a building,
incorporating a base, middle and top to maintain pedestrian scale. The building
mass shall be proportionate to the site, streets, open space, and surrounding
developments.
         (a)   Buildings shall include a minimum of three architectural
elements on facades fronting a right-of-way, and two elements on other facades.
Architectural elements shall include, but not be limited to, porticos,
balconies, columns, awnings, canopies, recessed/projected access.
         (b)   Integrated ornamental and structural building articulation,
including protections and recesses with a minimum depth of 24 inches.
         (c)   Varied roof line and form, stepped or decorative parapets,
cornices and eaves, and belt courses must be utilized in the building design.
         (d)   Building facades shall have a minimum of 30% fenestration
elements (windows, doors and openings). Windows and doors shall include
surrounds, casing or headers.
         (e)   Building materials and finishes shall be consistent on all
facades. High quality materials and finishes, such as brick, stone, vertical
board or batten siding, shall be used; stucco finish is only acceptable for a
maximum of 40% of the building facades; EIFIS shall not be used as a primary
material. Prohibited materials include unfinished concrete or block, corrugated
fiberglass or metal, sheet or tin siding.
         (f)   Light fixtures shall be consistent throughout the development
and shall complement the building architecture. Light fixtures shall be
decorative with concealed light sources, and light poles shall have fluted
bases. The use of illuminated bollards in lieu of poles is encouraged in
exclusively pedestrian areas.
         (g)   Accessory structures not designed or incorporated as part of the
principal building or as part of the amenities listed in this section are
prohibited.
      (13)   Transportation demand management standards apply, including, but
not limited to, strategies to reduce trips and parking demand, pedestrian-
oriented design elements, bicycle facilities, pay to park, or other fees based
on demand.
      (14)   Elements utilized to satisfy amenities required within multi-
family developments listed in this section shall not be credited as satisfying
other design requirements or standards.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 773, passed 11-2-95; Am. Ord. 1219, passed
11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1282, passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord. 1685, passed 6-29-23; Am. Ord.
1703, passed 6-20-24) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.60 RM MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and stabilize those limited areas within the city that are appropriate
for a mobile home subdivision for single-family occupancy. Mobile home sites
may be offered for sale, lease, or both, for residential purposes only. Areas
of the city for which this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the
comprehensive plan as medium-density.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the RM District shall be used, and no building
shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the
permitted and conditional uses listed below. The uses listed as conditional are
permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Only one single-family mobile home shall be allowed to be placed
on each designated parcel or lot.
         (b)   Screened porches or cabanas are allowed but must be attached to
the mobile home.
         (c)   Attached carports with utility or storage areas.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Office for on-site sales and rentals.
         (b)   Community services and facilities.
   (C)   Site development standards. The following minimum standards are hereby
established to maintain the purpose of the district, to promote the safe and
efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and to otherwise
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (1)   Each mobile home subdivision shall have a minimum of 10% of its
total area (defined as the perimeters of real property included within the
plotted subdivision) set aside for recreation purposes. That area may have a
swimming pool, recreational building, and recreational structures thereon.
      (2)   Maximum building height, 35 feet.
      (3)   Mobile residence space: Each mobile home parcel or space sold or
leased shall not be less than 5,000 square feet, with an average front of 50
feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Front yard, 20 feet.
         (b)   Side yard, a combined setback of 20 feet with a minimum
dimension in each yard of eight feet.
         (c)   Rear yard, 15 feet.
   (D)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All uses must conform to Appendix B of
Chapter 155 for off-street parking.
      (2)   All RM developments shall be subject to site plan or subdivision
approval in accordance with
Chapter 156.
      (3)   Each RM Mobile Home Park shall be not less than 20 acres nor more
than 100 acres in size.
      (4)   All mobile homes shall have permanent skirting around the bottom in
a manner as to prevent the accumulation of debris from collecting under the
mobile home, for the prevention of fire and the protection of health and
welfare.
      (5)   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
      (6)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1647,
passed 10-7-21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.61 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Description of district. The purpose of this district is as follows:
      (1)   To provide for planned residential communities containing a variety
of residential structures and a diversity of building arrangements, with
complementary and compatible commercial or industrial uses or both; planned
commercial centers with complementary and compatible residential or industrial
uses or both; or planned industrial parks with complementary and compatible
residential or commercial uses or both, developed in accordance with an
approved final development plan.
      (2)   To allow diversification of uses, structures, and open spaces in a
manner compatible with existing and permitted land uses on abutting properties.
      (3)   To reduce improvement costs through a more efficient use of land
and a smaller network of utilities and streets than is possible through the
application of other zoning districts.
      (4)   To insure that development will occur according to the limitations
of use, design, density, coverage, and phasing stipulated on an approved final
development plan.
      (5)   To preserve the natural amenities and environmental assets of the
land by encouraging the preservation and improvement of scenic and functional
open areas.
      (6)   To encourage an increase in the amount of usable open space areas
by permitting a more economical and concentrated use of building areas than
would be possible through conventional subdivision practices.
      (7)   To provide the maximum opportunity for the application of
innovative concepts of site planning in the creation of aesthetically pleasing
living, shopping, and working environments on properties of adequate size,
shape, and location.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the Planned
Unit Development District if designated on an approved final development plan.
      (1)   Planned residential communities: complementary and compatible
commercial uses may be included if they are compatibly and harmoniously
designed into the total residential community within a Planned Unit Development
District.
      (2)   Planned commercial center: complementary and compatible residential
and industrial uses may be included if properly designed into the total
commercial center within a Planned Unit Development District.
      (3)   Planned industrial parks: complementary and compatible residential
and commercial uses may be included if properly related to the total industrial
park within a Planned Unit Development District.
      (4)   Any other private, public, or semi-public use complementary to, and
compatible with, planned residential, commercial, or industrial developments.
   (C)   Site development standards.
      (1)   For properties having a DDD (Downtown Development District) future
land use designation, the minimum area for a PUD shall be two acres above the
ordinary high water elevation. For all other properties, the minimum area for a
PUD shall be five acres above the ordinary high water elevation.
      (2)   Site development standards shall be established for Planned Unit
Developments in order to insure adequate levels of light, air, and density to
maintain and enhance locally recognized values of community appearance and
design, to promote functional compatibility of uses, to promote the safe and
efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, to provide for the
orderly phasing of development, and to otherwise protect the public health,
environment, safety, and general welfare.
      (3)   The applicant shall propose, and the Planning and Zoning Board
shall recommend, maximum residential densities and maximum height limitations
to the City Commission. The Board may adopt the recommendation, or make changes
or amendments as it deems proper. Types of residential construction and
densities may be intermixed, so long as the gross density conforms to the
comprehensive plan.
      (4)   The criteria for establishing the residential density and height of
structures shall include:
         (a)   Compatibility with other zoning districts in the vicinity of
subject property, and with adopted city development plans and policies.
         (b)   The preservation of natural features and environmental assets of
the site.
         (c)   The provision of landscaped common open spaces for the leisure
and recreational use of the occupants.
         (d)   The adequacy of public roads, utilities, public services, and
facilities required to serve the development.
         (e)   For residential development, the Planned Unit Development shall
not exceed the density of the Future Land Use (FLU) designation of the subject
property.
            1.   For the purposes of the Planned unit Development, the net
residential acreage shall include all land above the 100- year flood plain that
is devoted to one particular residential use and its accessory recreational
uses.
            2.   The net residential acreage does not include general
development circulation, major recreation areas, or retention areas.
      (5)   For nonresidential development, the Planned Unit Development shall
comply with the maximum impervious ratio or other measure of intensity allowed
for the future land use designation of the subject property, in accordance with
the City of Lake Mary Comprehensive Plan.
      (6)   The following site development standards shall apply, unless
specifically waived by finding of the Planning and Zoning Board and the City
Commission that the unique characteristics of the development in question make
unnecessary the application of one or more of these provisions in order to
carry out the intent and purposes of the Planned Unit Development District:
         (a)   The natural topography, soils, and vegetation should be
preserved and utilized, where possible, through the careful location and design
of circulation ways, buildings and structures, parking areas, recreation areas,
open space, and drainage facilities.
         (b)   Landscaping shall conform to
Chapter 157 unless the final development plan is otherwise approved.
         (c)   Open space and recreation space shall be provided and should be
adequate in size and location to serve the residents of the planned unit
development.
         (d)   The proposed location and arrangement of structures should not
be detrimental to existing or prospective adjacent land uses, or to the
existing or prospective development of the neighborhood. Established minimum
floor elevations shall be observed. Lighting, access points, or activities
resulting in high noise levels, which adversely affect abutting property, shall
be prohibited.
         (e)   Streets to be dedicated to the public shall be designed and
improved in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix A.
            1.   Streets and driveways shall be constructed in accordance with
adopted road construction specifications, and designed to provide for the free
movement and safety of vehicular traffic, and to provide safe, efficient, and
convenient access to land uses within the development and to roadways adjacent
to the development.
            2.   The local, collector, and arterial street system must provide
adequate access to the development, and properly accommodate traffic generated
by the development.
            3.   Local streets shall provide access within the Planned Unit
Development in a manner that will discourage through traffic and provide for
convenient accessibility to parking areas serving each group of units. Local
streets shall be so located that future urban development will not require
their conversion to arterial routes.
            4.   Collector and arterial streets shall be free of backing
movements from adjoining parking areas.
         (f)   Parking and loading facilities requirements for residential,
commercial, and industrial uses shall be based on Appendix B of
Chapter 155. Entrances to parking areas shall be easily accessible and
identifiable from local streets and drives, and shall not interfere with
traffic movement on adjoining streets. Public rights-of-way shall not be
improved as parking areas. Grassed parking areas may be permitted where
frequency of use does not destroy ground cover.
         (g)   Wherever practical, vehicular and pedestrian passageways shall
be separated. A system of walkways and bicycle paths between buildings, common
open spaces, recreation areas, community facilities, and parking areas shall be
distinctively designed and adequately lighted where appropriate for nighttime
use.
         (h)   Central water systems, sewerage systems, storm water management
systems, utility lines, and easements shall be provided in accordance with the
appropriate regulations.
         (i)   All land shown on the final development plan as common open
space, private parks, and recreation facilities shall be subject to deed
restrictions which insure the payment of future taxes and the maintenance of
areas and facilities for a safe, healthful, and attractive living environment.
   (D)   Approval procedure. The procedure for obtaining approval of a Planned
Unit Development shall be a two-step process as follows:
      (1)   Step 1.
         (a)   The applicant shall meet with staff in a preapplication
conference. The purpose of the preapplication conference is for both staff and
the applicant to review the proposed PUD and discuss the review process.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit the required number of copies of a
preliminary development plan, supporting material, and fees as prescribed by
the City Commission. Staff shall schedule the Preliminary PUD for a meeting
with the Development Review Committee.
         (c)   The Development Review Committee shall meet on the proposed
preliminary development plan, and make a written recommendation to the Planning
and Zoning Board. A copy of the recommendation shall be sent to the applicant
prior to the review scheduled by the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (d)   Upon receipt of the written recommendation, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall review the application, hold a public hearing in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and submit its recommendation to the City
Commission for official action.
      (2)   Step 2.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit the required number of copies of a
final development plan, supporting materials, fees as prescribed by the City
Commission, and a preliminary subdivision plat if required. The final
development plan may cover all or a portion of the approved preliminary
development plan. The applicant shall schedule a meeting with the Development
Review Committee.
         (b)   The Development Review Committee shall review the final
development plan and submit a written recommendation to the City Commission. A
copy of the recommendation shall be sent to the applicant prior to the review
scheduled by the City Commission.
         (c)   The City Commission shall review the final development plan at a
regularly scheduled public meeting. If two or more parcels are proposed to be
created, the property shall be platted under the subdivision regulations in
Chapter 155. Review under the subdivision regulations may be carried out
simultaneously with, or subsequent to, review of the final development plan. It
is recommended that the applicant concurrently file the final development plan
and the preliminary plat.
         (d)   The City Commission shall find the following:
            1.   That there is substantial compliance with the purpose of the
Planned Unit Development District and the preliminary development plan.
            2.   That the phase of development in question can exist as an
independent unit capable of creating an environment of substantial desirability
and stability.
            3.   That existing or proposed utility services and transportation
systems are adequate for the population densities proposed.
            4.   That the preliminary engineering plans as required by the City
Engineer have been approved.
         (e)   The Community Development Director shall approve all land use
permits for buildings and structures in the area covered by the approved final
development plan if they are in conformity with the approved plan and with all
other applicable ordinances and regulations.
         (f)   The Community Development Director shall determine that all open
space improvements have been provided in accordance with the approved final
development plan prior to final acceptance of the last building or structure
covered by the approved final development plan.
   (E)   Preliminary development plan. The preliminary development plan,
consisting of properly identified exhibits and supporting materials, shall
clearly indicate the following:
      (1)   The name, location, legal description, acreage, and type of planned
unit development.
      (2)   The existing land use and the proposed development by phase of
construction, identifying for each phase and for the total development the
proposed use, the number of permanent or transient dwelling units or the floor
area of commercial or industrial use, the gross density, and the density by
number of dwelling units per net residential acre, for each residential
category and area, or the ratio of commercial or industrial floor area to the
gross acreage reserved for those uses.
      (3)   The existing topography and other natural features including lakes,
marshes or swamps, water courses (U.S. Geological Survey map acceptable), and
soils, and a general description of the vegetation.
      (4)   The maximum height of buildings and structures requested.
      (5)   The priority and phasing of the development and the manner in which
each phase of development can exist as an independent unit capable of creating
an environment of sustained desirability and stability.
      (6)   The location of collector and arterial streets and highways
proposed in the development, the general location of access points to abutting
arterial streets and highways, and projected traffic generation.
      (7)   The proposed method of providing for all necessary road
improvements, sewerage systems, water supply, storm water management systems,
and fire protection.
      (8)   The proposed location of public uses, schools, open space, and
recreation spaces.
      (9)   Identification of the present ownership and the developers of all
land included in the development.
      (10)   Identification of consultants involved in plan preparation.
   (F)   Final development plan. The final development plan, consisting of
properly identified exhibits and supporting materials, shall contain not less
than 30% engineering details and shall include the following:
      (1)   The preliminary subdivision plan, if the applicant proposes to
create two or more parcels.
      (2)   A location map showing the relationship between the area proposed
for the development, the remainder of the area within the approved preliminary
development plan, and the surrounding area.
      (3)   The legal description and gross acreage of the area submitted for
final approval.
      (4)   A plot plan with scale dimensions.
      (5)   The name, location, width, and design of existing streets,
including abutting arterial highways, within 200 feet of the property in
question.
      (6)   The names, locations, right-of-way widths, and width of pavements
of proposed streets, easements, pedestrian ways, bicycle paths, and water
courses.
      (7)   The locations, dimensions, design elevations or renderings, and
uses of all buildings and structures, including proposed property lines,
utilities, plants, and permanent signs.
      (8)   The proposed use; the number of permanent or transient dwelling
units, or the floor area of commercial or industrial use; the gross density;
the density by number of dwelling units per net residential acre, or commercial
or industrial floor area ratio; the setbacks and building separations; the
maximum lot coverage; and the height of structures.
      (9)   The open space, recreation space, and private outdoor living area.
      (10)   A landscaping and tree planting plan.
      (11)   The open and covered off-street parking areas, indicating
landscaping and external lighting systems.
      (12)   The distance of dwelling units from vehicular accessways and
parking areas.
      (13)   The walls, fencing, or landscaping, where required, between
private and common areas, along streets or highways, drainage ways, railroads,
and along the periphery of the development.
      (14)   Any refuse storage areas and methods of solid waste disposal.
      (15)   The treatment of street lighting, external lighting, and roof-
mounted equipment.
      (16)   The preliminary engineering plans for the provision of roads,
water, fire protection, sewerage, and storm water management systems for the
entire planned development.
      (17)   An environmental impact report.
      (18)   Any covenants, conditions, restrictions, agreements, and grants
which govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of buildings,
structures, and landscaping within the Planned Unit Development.
      (19)   Any areas to be conveyed or dedicated, and improved for roadways,
parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites, utilities, public buildings, and
other similar public and public service uses. Improvement bonds for facilities
to be owned and maintained by the city shall be posted before the issuance of
building permits. Before final acceptance of the Planned Unit Development as
outlined in division (H) below, all instruments of dedication shall be
submitted and accepted.
      (20)   The identification of the present ownership, and the developers of
all land included in the development.
      (21)   The identification of consultants involved in plan preparation.
   (G)   Alterations to preliminary or final development plans.
      (1)   Substantial proposed changes in requested uses, densities, phasing,
or other specifications of the preliminary development plan may be permitted
only following public hearing by the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (2)   Substantial proposed changes in requested uses, density, phasing,
or other specifications of the final development plan may be permitted
following review by the Development Review Committee and approval by the City
Commission.
   (H)   Control of development following completion.
      (1)   Upon the completion of the final development plan or any phase
thereof, the Community Development Director shall certify the completion on the
official zoning map.
      (2)   After that certification, the use of land and the construction,
modification, or alteration of any buildings or structures within the planned
development will be in accordance with the approved final development plan,
rather than with other provisions of the zoning regulations.
      (3)   After certification, no changes may be made in the approved final
development plan except under the procedures provided below:
         (a)   If any minor extensions, alterations, or modifications of
existing buildings, structures, or utilities are consistent with the purposes
and intent of the final development plan, they may be authorized by the
Community Development Director.
         (b)   Any uses not authorized by the final development plan may be
added to the final development plan if approved by the City Commission, which
shall hold a public hearing.
         (c)   A building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final development
plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Approval expiration.
      (1)   If a final development plan for all or part of the preliminary
development plan has not been submitted within 12 months following the approval
of the preliminary development plan, the City Commission may review the
preliminary development plan and changing conditions, and determine whether the
approved uses are still appropriate. Following this review, the City Commission
may take the following action:
         (a)   If there have been no significant changes in the surrounding
area, the City Commission may extend the approval for another 12 months.
         (b)   If significant changes have occurred in the area that make the
approved uses inappropriate, the City Commission may, after formal public
hearing and recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board:
            1.   Revise the preliminary development plan; or
            2.   Change the zoning classification to a more appropriate
district.
      (2)   Actual construction must begin on an approved final development
plan within 12 months of approval. If actual construction has not begun, the
final development plan must be re-submitted for review in accordance with
division (D)(2) above, before any building permits shall be issued.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 581, passed 1-16-92; Am. Ord. 1213, passed
9-21-06; Am. Ord. 1443, passed 10-20-11) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.62 PO PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.
   (A)   Description of district.
      (1)   This district is established in order to identify and provide for
geographic areas within the city that are appropriate for the development and
maintenance of an office-oriented environment. The purpose of this district is
to provide professional services at the neighborhood and community level. It is
often located in areas undergoing transition from residential uses. The PO
District is designed to be compatible with residential uses.
      (2)   Certain limited commercial uses are permitted as conditional uses
in demonstrated support of office uses. Areas of the city for which this zoning
category is appropriate are designated on the land use map of the comprehensive
plan as commercial, industrial, or the downtown district.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the PO District
shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected, structurally
altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional uses listed
below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval, in accordance with
§§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Professional offices offering consulting services, such as
architects, attorneys, engineers, accountants, doctors, dentists, and the like.
         (b)   Real estate offices.
         (c)   Financial institutions without drive-in facilities.
         (d)   Churches.
         (e)   Other uses which are similar or compatible and which promote
these intents and purposes.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Pharmacies.
         (b)   Child care centers.
         (c)   Community services and facilities.
         (d)   Living quarters in conjunction with PO use.
         (e)   Clinics that do not include overnight treatment or housing of
patients.
         (f)   Any permitted use requiring a structure exceeding the maximum
allowable building height.
         (g)   Parking garages.
         (h)   Instructional studios.
   (C)   Site development standards. All PO land uses are subject to site plan
approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare:
      (1)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Requirements.
      (2)   Minimum setbacks and buffers shall conform to
Chapter 157, but in no case shall the minimum building setback be less than 25
feet from any property line or right-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum building height:
         (a)   30 feet when adjacent to single family residential property.
         (b)   40 feet when not adjacent to single family residential property.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All PO uses must conform to applicable setback, landscape, and
buffer requirements.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 773, passed
11-2-95; Am. Ord. 848, passed 8-14-97; Am. Ord. 990, passed 8-3-00; Am. Ord.
1120, passed 3-4-04; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.63 C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and provide those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of a general commercial
district. The purpose of this district is to provide for a wide variety of
consumer-oriented commercial uses and activities located in relative proximity
to major thoroughfares and to residential concentrations. Areas of the city for
which this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the land use plan
as commercial or the downtown district.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the C-
1 District shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional
uses listed below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval in
accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the PO District.
         (b)   General office uses.
         (c)   Theaters, but not drive-in theaters.
         (d)   Restaurants, delicatessens and establishments for the retail
sales of prepared foods including establishments which serve alcohol for the
consumption on premises, but not drive-in restaurants.
         (e)   Retail sales establishments, such as bakeries, hardware stores,
florists, gift shops, department stores, drug stores, and other similar
businesses except for outdoor sales and flea markets.
         (f)   Child care centers.
         (g)   Dry cleaners with no on-site processing.
         (h)   Personal service establishments.
         (i)   Banks and financial institutions with drive-in facilities.
         (j)   Adult congregate living facilities.
         (k)   Instructional studios.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Shopping centers under 75,000 square feet.
         (b)   Nursing homes.
         (c)   Animal hospitals or veterinary clinics.
         (d)   Community services and facilities.
         (e)   Any permitted use requiring a structure exceeding the maximum
allowable building height.
         (f)   Post offices.
         (g)   Restaurants, delicatessens and establishments primarily for the
retail sales of prepared foods and which serve alcohol as an incident to the
sale of prepared foods for consumption on premises, adjacent to residential
zoning.
         (h)   Health clubs.
         (i)   Pharmacies with drive-in business.
         (j)   Funeral home. Funeral homes shall provide sufficient on-site
parking, staging areas and/or service drives in order to accommodate parking
and staging of funeral processions. Streets and public right-of-ways shall not
be used for parking or to form funeral processions.
   (C)   Site development standards. All C-1 land uses are subject to site plan
approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
      (1)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Requirements.
      (2)   Minimum setbacks. Minimum setbacks and buffers shall conform to
Chapter 157 of this code, but in no case shall the minimum building setback be
less than 25 feet from any property line or right-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum building height:
         (a)   30 feet when adjacent to single family residential property.
         (b)   40 feet when not adjacent to single family residential property.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with Appendix B of
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All C-1 uses must conform to applicable setback, landscape, and
buffer requirements in
Chapter 157 of this code.
      (2)   Lakefront and other development regulations are included in
division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 364, passed 4-7-88; Am. Ord. 422, passed
4-6-89; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-6-90; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord.
773, passed 11-2-95; Am. Ord. 783, passed 3-21-96; Am. Ord. 848, passed 8-14-
97; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-26-99; Am. Ord. 1120, passed 3-4-04; Am. Ord. 1219,
passed 11-2-06) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.64 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and provide those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of higher intensity commercial
uses. The term "higher intensity" relates to large retail outlets as well as
uses that generate or capture large volumes of traffic or operate beyond normal
business hours as compared to uses in the C-1 (General Commercial) District.
The purpose of this district is to provide areas for intense commercial uses
and activities located in relative proximity to major thoroughfares but
adequately distanced from residential concentrations. Single family residential
districts shall be buffered from this district by C-1, PO, or multi-family
zoning districts. Areas of the city which may be appropriate for this category
are designated on the land use plan as commercial office.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the C-
2 District shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional
uses listed below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval in
accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the C-1 District.
         (b)   Drive-through businesses.
            1.   Restaurants; and
            2.   Film developing.
         (c)   Shopping centers.
         (d)   Convenience stores
         (e)   Automobile service stations.
         (f)   Bars, cocktail lounges.
         (g)   Animal hospitals or veterinary clinics with or without outside
kennels.
         (h)   Adult congregate living facilities.
         (i)   Nursing homes.
         (j)   Package stores or liquor stores.
         (k)   Hotels or motels. Bars, lounges and restaurants which serve
alcohol shall be considered accessory uses.
         (l)   Sales of second hand merchandise, antiques or pawn shops, but
not flea markets.
         (m)   Catalog showrooms.
         (n)   Community services and facilities.
         (o)   Marinas.
         (p)   Private retail and recreational facilities.
            1.   Bowling alleys;
            2.   Miniature golf;
            3.   Gymnasiums; and
            4.   Stadiums, arenas or amphitheaters.
         (q)   Auto repairs.
         (r)   Home improvement stores/building supply stores with outside
storage.
         (s)   Hospitals.
         (t)   Restaurants which serve alcohol for consumption on premises.
         (u)   Instructional studios.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Funeral home. Funeral homes shall provide sufficient on-site
parking, staging areas and/or service drives in order to accommodate parking
and staging of funeral processions. Streets and public right-of-ways shall not
be used for parking or to form funeral processions.
         (b)   Any permitted use requiring a structure exceeding the maximum
allowable building height.
         (c)    Parking garages.
   (C)   Site development standards. All C-2 land uses are subject to site plan
approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare:
      (1)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Requirements.
      (2)   Minimum setbacks. Minimum setbacks and buffers shall conform to
Chapter 157 of this code, but in no case shall the minimum building setback be
less than 25 feet from any property line or right-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum building height, 40 feet.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with Appendix B of
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All C-2 uses must conform to applicable setback, landscape, and
buffer requirements in
Chapter 157 of this code.
      (2)   Lakefront and other development regulations are included in
division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-6-90; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 773, passed
11-2-95; Am. Ord. 848, passed 8-14-97; Am. Ord. 940, passed 8-26- 99; Am. Ord.
990, passed 8-3-00; Am. Ord. 1120, passed 3-4-04; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-
06; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.65 M-1A OFFICE AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and provide those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of a light industrial, office,
manufacturing, and warehousing environment. The purpose of this district is to
provide primarily for compatible wholesale, distribution, and light
manufacturing options, none of which require large areas for outdoor storage or
display, and that do not involve the use of materials, processes, or machinery
likely to cause undesirable effects upon neighboring properties. Areas of the
city for which this zoning category is appropriate are indicated on the land
use map as industrial.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the M-1A
District shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional
uses listed below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval in
accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the PO District.
         (b)   Manufacturing and assembly of:
            1.   Electronics, scientific, optical products
            2.   Automotive, vehicle parts
            3.   Construction products
            4.   Machinery
            5.   Aircraft and aircraft parts
            6.   Plastics
            7.   Food products
            8.   Fasteners/spacers
            9.   Other manufacturing uses listed in the City of Lake Mary
Economic Development Incentive Policy.
         (c)   Warehouses, storage, and wholesaling buildings.
         (d)   Restaurants and family restaurants, but not drive-ins.
         (e)   Motion picture, radio broadcasting and telecasting station
studios and offices.
         (f)   Wholesale and commercial bakeries.
         (g)   High technology uses:
            1.   Research and development laboratories
            2.   Space technology
            3.   Simulation and training
            4.   Laser technology
            5.   Robotics
            6.   Computer software and hardware
            7.   Medical labs
            8.   Testing
         (h)   Distribution uses:
            1.   Food products
            2.   Consumer products
            3.   Restaurant/commissary and portion control
            4.   Air cargo/mail services/delivery services
            5.   Motion picture and television support
            6.   Durable goods
            7.   Nondurable goods
         (i)   Financial services/data centers.
         (j)   Commercial printers and photographic laboratories.
         (k)   Retail manufacturing outlet store.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Hotels and motels.
         (b)   Reserved.
         (c)   Hospitals and nursing homes.
         (d)   Adult congregate living facilities.
         (e)   Reserved.
         (f)   Community services and facilities.
         (g)   Any permitted use requiring a structure exceeding the maximum
allowable building height.
         (h)   Reserved.
         (i)   Private and retail recreational facilities.
         (j)   Child care centers.
         (k)   Parking garages
         (l)   Pain management clinic.
            1.   Such uses shall comply with the following criteria:
               a.   No co-location (on the same property) with a pharmacy;
               b.    Minimum separation of 1,000 feet from another pain
management clinic, or any pre-existing pharmacy, school (VPK through 12), place
of worship, daycare center, assisted living facility, nursing home or
residential dwelling unit(s) unless a variance is granted pursuant to §
154.25 of the city's Code of Ordinances;
               c.    Maximum hours of operation shall not exceed 7:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m. of the same day;
               d.    Shall not restrict payment options to "cash only";
               e.   No outdoor customer seating areas, queues or waiting areas;
               f.   All activities shall be conducted within a building, and
adequate indoor waiting areas shall be provided;
               g.   No on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages, including
parking areas.
            2.   A business tax receipt issued by the city is required for a
pain management clinic to operate. In part, the issuance of a business tax
receipt is contingent upon the following:
               a.    Documentation that owner(s) of the pain management clinic
is a physician(s) licensed to practice in the State of Florida;
               b.    Documentation that the owner(s), physician(s) and/or
clinic employees have not been charged with a disciplinary action and/or
convicted of a felony within the last five years.
               c.    Documentation of state registration under F.S. § 458.3265
or § 459.0137, or documents evidencing that the clinic does not need to
register with the state.
            3.    Noncompliance with the provisions of §
154.65(B)(2)(l)2.a. through c. above is grounds for the city to deny a request
for the issuance of a business tax receipt and the revocation of a previously
issued business tax receipt.
            4.   This subsection shall not be construed as authorizing a "pill
mill" which is prohibited by §
154.120 of the city's Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Site development standards. All M-1A land uses are subject to site
plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare:
      (1)   Minimum site size, one acre.
      (2)   Reserved.
      (3)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Regulations.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks. Minimum setbacks and buffers shall conform to
Chapter 157 of the land development code, but in no case shall a streetside
setback be less than 25 feet from the building line. Buildings exceeding two
stories must be set back a minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   Maximum building height, 45 feet.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided
in accordance with Appendix B of
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Public utilities must be in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix D.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   Signs are permitted in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix I.
      (4)   Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment such as air
conditioners, ventilation equipment, refrigeration systems, heating units,
incinerator units and satellite dishes must be screened so that they are not
visible from Lake Emma Road, Emma Oaks Trail or Rinehart Road right-of-way. The
point(s) at which visibility shall be determined shall be six feet above the
point(s) on the western right-of-way line of Rinehart Road nearest the property
line of the subject site. The screen shall consist of a solid wall, parapet or
other similar screening material which is architecturally compatible and
consistent with the associated building. If landscaping is utilized as a
screen, the planting(s) must be high enough within one year of planting to
provide a screen which will screen the entire unit with a minimum of 75%
opacity.
      (5)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 422, passed 4-6-89; Am. Ord. 529, passed
12-6-90; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 799, passed 9-5-96; Am. Ord.
869, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 931, passed 6-3-99; Am. Ord. 990, passed 8-3-00;
Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1475, passed 12-20-12) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.66 M-2A INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and provide those geographic areas within the city that are
appropriate for the development and maintenance of industrial, manufacturing,
warehousing and office environment. The purpose of this district is to provide
primarily for compatible wholesale, distribution, and manufacturing options.
This district permits industrial uses which are more intense than the M-1A
District. Residential districts shall be buffered from this district by less
intense zoning districts such as M-1A (light industrial), C-1 (General
Commercial), or PO (Professional Office). Areas for which this category may be
appropriate are designated on the land use plan as industrial.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the M-2A
District shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected,
structurally altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional
uses listed below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval in
accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Any use permitted in the M-1A District.
         (b)   Flea markets.
         (c)   Drive-in theaters.
         (d)   Exterminator and pest control fleet yards.
         (e)   Auto repairs.
         (f)   Hospitals and nursing homes.
         (g)   Adult entertainment establishments:
            1.   Adult performance establishments
            2.   Adult theaters
            3.   Adult bookstores
            4.   Adult massage establishments
            5.   Adult motels
         (h)   Cold/freezer storage and distribution centers.
         (i)   Clothing and garment manufacturing.
         (j)   Mechanical garages.
         (k)   Dry cleaning facilities.
         (l)   Community services and facilities.
         (m)   Recreational vehicle parks/vehicle storage yards.
         (n)   Mobile home sales.
         (o)   Material storage indoor and outdoor.
         (p)   Mini-warehouses/personal storage facilities.
         (q)   Retail manufacturing outlet store.
      (2)   Conditional uses:
         (a)   Any permitted use requiring a structure exceeding the maximum
allowable building height.
         (b)   Private and retail recreational facilities.
         (c)   Any use not previously listed as a permitted or conditional use
within this chapter.
         (d)   Crematoriums and funeral homes. Such uses shall provide
sufficient on-site parking, staging areas and/or service drives in order to
accommodate parking and staging of funeral processions. Streets and public
right-of-ways shall not be used for parking or to form funeral processions.
         (e)   Contractors construction and storage yards.
         (f)   New and used vehicle sales.
         (g)   Parking garages.
         (h)   Pain management clinic.
            1.   Such uses shall comply with the following criteria:
               a.   No co-location (on the same property) with a pharmacy;
               b.    Minimum separation of 1,000 feet from another pain
management clinic, or any pre-existing pharmacy, school (VPK through 12), place
of worship, daycare center, assisted living facility, nursing home or
residential dwelling unit(s) unless a variance is granted pursuant to §
154.25 of the city's Code of Ordinances;
               c.    Maximum hours of operation shall not exceed 7:00 a.m. to
9:00 p.m. of the same day;
               d.    Shall not restrict payment options to "cash only";
               e.   No outdoor customer seating areas, queues or waiting areas;
               f.   All activities shall be conducted within a building, and
adequate indoor waiting areas shall be provided;
               g.   No on-site consumption of alcoholic beverages, including
parking areas.
            2.   A business tax receipt issued by the City of Lake Mary is
required for a pain management clinic to operate. In part, the issuance of a
business tax receipt is contingent upon the following:
               a.    Documentation that owner(s) of the pain management clinic
is a physician(s) licensed to practice in the State of Florida;
               b.    Documentation that the owner(s), physician(s) and/or
clinic employees have not been charged with a disciplinary action and/or
convicted of a felony within the last five years.
               c.    Documentation of state registration under F.S. § 458.3265
or § 459.0137. or documents evidencing that the clinic does not need to
register with the state.
            3.    Noncompliance with the provisions of §
154.66(B)(2)(h)2.a. through c. above is grounds for the city to deny a request
for the issuance of a business tax receipt and the revocation of a previously
issued business tax receipt.
            4.    This subsection shall not be construed as authorizing a "pill
mill" which is prohibited by §
154.120 of the city's Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Site development standards. All M-2A land uses are subject to site
plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare:
      (1)   Minimum site size, one acre.
      (2)   Reserved.
      (3)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Regulations.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum setbacks and buffers shall conform to
Chapter 157 of the land development code, but in no case shall a streetside
setback be less than 25 feet from the building line. Buildings exceeding two
stories must be set back a minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
         (b)   Personal storage facilities/mini-warehouses. The minimum setback
between buildings shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   Minimum separation of an M-2A zoning district from any property
which is zoned as residential within the city or Seminole County or designated
as residential on the future land use maps of city or county jurisdiction or
both is 1000 feet. The distance shall be measured by drawing a straight line
between the closest property lines or boundaries of the area zoned or proposed
to be zoned M-2A and the area which is zoned residential within the city or
unincorporated Seminole County or designated as residential on the city's or
Seminole County's Future Land Use Map.
      (5)   Maximum building height, 60 feet.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided
in accordance with Appendix B of
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Public utilities must be in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix D.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   All aisles not serving storage spaces in personal storage
facilities/ mini-warehouse uses shall meet a minimum required aisle width of 24
feet.
      (4)   Signs are permitted in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix I.
      (5)   Adult entertainment establishments shall meet all requirements of
this chapter and
Chapter 115.
      (6)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-6-90; Am. Ord. 594, passed 3-5-92; Am. Ord. 762, passed 8-
24-95; Am. Ord. 799, passed 9-5-96; Am. Ord. 869, passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 940,
passed 8-26-99; Am. Ord. 990, passed 8-3-00; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am.
Ord. 1475, passed 12-20-12) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.67 DOWNTOWN CENTRE ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Establishment. This district is established in order to identify and
provide the geographic areas within the designated Downtown Area that are
appropriate for development and maintenance of office, retail, and residential
uses and establish development standards for such development within the
District. To the extent that the development standards for the Downtown Centre
Zoning District expressly conflict with the existing land development
regulations, the Downtown Centre standards shall govern all development and
redevelopment in the zoning district. Property within the area described in
division (C) shall be subject to all the provisions herein contained. Property
within the designated downtown area may petition for vested rights
determination under
Chapter 155 Appendix H, seeking exemption from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the establishment of the Downtown Centre
District is to assist development within the designated region in a manner
which:
      (1)   Encourages revitalization of the historic town center;
      (2)   Unifies the old and new sections of the city with a defined
geographic center;
      (3)   Preserves and strengthens "small town" development in the historic
town center;
      (4)   Reduces impediments to downtown development associated with the
site constraints of small parcels;
      (5)   Preserves the historic and natural features of the area to the
extent practicable;
      (6)   Maintains and enhances property values; and
      (7)   Recognizes and makes allowances for existing uses and buildings.
   (C)   Description of district. The Downtown Centre District (shown in Map 1)
is generally described as lying north of Lake Mary Boulevard, south of Alma
Avenue and Old Lake Mary Road, east of Fourth Street and west of the City of
Sanford corporate limits. The objective in delineating this district is to
provide a focal point for economic development in the downtown area.
   (D)   The use of individual parcels shall comply with the adopted Downtown
Master Plan (DMP) (shown in Map 4) to the extent practical and as may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
Residential:                                                                       
   Per the Lake Mary Downtown Design Standards. Residences shall include single
family detached, single family attached, townhouses, condominiums, apartments,    P
and duplexes.
Nonresidential Uses:                                                               
Banks, trust companies, savings institutions, finance, w/o drive-in facility      p
Business service:                                                                  
   Addressing service                                                          P
   Aerial photographic service                                                 P
   Arbitrator/mediator service                                                 P
   Blueprinting service                                                        P
   Boat broker (office only)                                                   P
   Photocopying service                                                        P
   Private investigator                                                        P
   Process service                                                             P
   Recording service                                                           P
   Secretarial service                                                         P
   Telemarketing service                                                       P
Bed and breakfast                                                                 P
Church, synagogue, temple or other religious facility                             P
Collection agencies                                                               P
Commercial artist/design studio                                                   P
Commercial photography                                                            P
Community services and facilities                                                 P
Computer sales and/or service                                                     P
Contractor's office, no outdoor storage                                           P
Data processing                                                                   P
Day care center                                                                   P
Developing and printing of film                                                   P
Direct mail advertising service                                                   P
Eating and Drinking Establishments                                                 
      Restaurants                                                           P
      Bar/cocktail lounge                                                   P
      Beer garden                                                           P
      Bottle club                                                           P
      Carryout restaurants without drive thru window                        P
      Confectionery and ice cream shop without drive thru window            P
      Craft brewery                                                         P
      Delicatessen                                                          P
      Dinner theater                                                        P
      Sidewalk café with outside seating, provided such seating does not imPede
pedestrian flow per ADA regulations
Editing, proofreading, typing service                                              
Fire, police, and rescue station                                                  P
Government offices and off-site/off-street parking                                P
Guard/security service office                                                     P
Library                                                                           P
Mail service                                                                      P
Medical:                                                                           
   Doctor, dentist, psychologist/counselors office and other medically related P
services
   Massage and physical therapy                                                P
   Medical care facility and clinic outpatient only                            P
Medical equipment rental/leasing                                                  P
Mixed use (Office, Commercial/Retail) with residential                            P
Museum, cultural center, gardens                                                  P
Newspaper office                                                                  P
Newsstand                                                                         P
Paralegal                                                                         P
Personal Services:                                                                 
   Alteration/dressmaking shop                                                 P
   Carpet and rug cleaning service                                             P
   Costume/tuxedo rental                                                       P
   Hairstyling salon, barber/beauty shop, nail salon                           P
   Income tax service                                                          P
   Shoe shine and repair                                                       P
   Tailor shop                                                                 P
   Tanning salon                                                               P
Post office                                                                       P
Professional Services:                                                             
   Abstract and/or title company                                               P
   Accountant                                                                  P
   Adjusters, insurance                                                        P
   Advertising office                                                          P
   Appraiser                                                                   P
   Architect                                                                   P
   Attorney                                                                    P
   Auctioneer, office only                                                     P
   Auditor                                                                     P
   Broker                                                                      P
   Building plumbing and electrical contractors' office, no outdoor storage    P
   Business analyst                                                            P
   Calculating and statistical service                                         P
   Court reporting/stenographers                                               P
   Credit reporting                                                            P
   Engineers office                                                            P
   Importer/exporter, office only                                              P
   Insurance agencies                                                          P
   Interior decorating                                                         P
   Mail order office                                                           P
   Market research office                                                      P
   Model agencies                                                              P
   Notary public office                                                        P
   Public relations office                                                     P
   Real estate sales/management office                                         P
   Stock exchanges and brokerage office                                        P
   Telegraph/telephone office                                                  P
   Telephone answering/message service                                         P
Recreation:                                                                        
   Travel agency                                                               P
   Handball/racquetball courts                                                 P
   Skating rink                                                                P
   Theaters/motion picture houses                                              P
Retail, including ancillary sale of alcohol:                                       
   Antique, gift and curio shop                                                P
   Art and hobby supply                                                        P
   Art gallery                                                                 P
   Bakery or bake shop                                                         P
   Bicycle shop                                                                P
   Book and stationery store                                                   P
   Building, plumbing and electrical supplies, no outdoor storage              P
   Camera and photo supplies                                                   P
   China, crockery, glassware and earthenware store                            P
   Cigar, cigarette and tobacco shop                                           P
   Clothing store                                                              P
   Cosmetic, perfumes and toiletries shop                                      P
   Department and dry goods store                                              P
   Drug and sundry store                                                       P
   Electronics appliance                                                       P
   Eyeglass, optical store                                                     P
   Feed and fertilizer store, no outdoor storage, display or sales             P
   Florist shop                                                                P
   Fruit and vegetable shop                                                    P
   Furniture store                                                             P
   Garden supply, no outdoor storage, display or sales                         P
   Gift shop                                                                   P
   Glass and mirror shop                                                       P
   Grocery store without gas pumps                                             P
   Hardware store, no outdoor storage, display or sales                        P
   Home improvements store                                                     P
   Jewelry stores                                                              P
   Leather goods, luggage store                                                P
   Meat market                                                                 P
   Paint and wallpaper store                                                   P
   Pharmacies, no drive-in window                                              P
   Shoe store                                                                  P
   Shopping center, single buildings or multiple buildings with the same owner(P)
30,000 SF or smaller
   Souvenirs, notions, sundry variety store                                    P
   Sporting goods store                                                        P
   Stationery shop                                                             P
   Surgical and orthopedic store                                               P
   Swimming pool supplies                                                      P
   Video rental                                                                P
Schools/Studios                                                                    
   Art                                                                         P
   Dance school/studio                                                         P
   Drama                                                                       P
   Gymnasium, health and fitness center                                        P
   Martial arts instruction                                                    P
   Music                                                                       P
Tourist information bureau                                                        P
Home occupation                                                                   P
                                                                                  
 
      (2)   Conditional Uses:
Nonresidential                                                                   
   Adult congregate living facility (ACLF)                                   C
   Banks, trust companies, savings institutions, finance, with drive-in      C
facility
   Bowling alley                                                             C
   Broadcasting studio (without antenna)                                     C
   Building heights in excess of the maximum building heights listed in this C
section
   Clubs, public and private                                                 C
   Conference and training center                                            C
   Community services and facilities                                         C
   Funeral parlor                                                            C
   Golf course, miniature                                                    C
   Health club                                                               C
   Lawn mower repair shop                                                    C
   Locksmith                                                                 C
   Mass transit stations                                                     C
   Nursing homes                                                             C
   Parking garage - public, private                                          C
   Parking lots (off-street-off-site)                                        C
   Parks (public)                                                            C
   Pest control                                                              C
   Pet shop                                                                  C
   Pharmacies, with drive-in window                                          C
   Ponds (Retention/detention)                                               C
      Schools/Educational:                                                 
      **Public                                                            C
      **Private                                                           C
   **Refer to §                                                              
154.68, school locational criteria
   Wedding chapel                                                            C
   Commercial or mixed use buildings inclusive of shopping centers, single   C
buildings and multiple use buildings in excess of 30,000 square feet
 
** School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
   (F)   District wide development standards. The district wide development
standards shall apply to all development within the area designated as the
downtown. When there are conflicts between the requirements listed in the
district wide development standards and requirements identified in specific
districts within the downtown, the requirement of the specific districts shall
take precedence.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   The following regulations shall apply to development and
redevelopment in the Downtown Centre Zoning District. For purposes of
development standards, projects involving a shopping center, single building or
multiple buildings with the same owner(s) in excess of 30,000 square feet shall
be reviewed as a Conditional Use. All conditional use and site plan review
petitions within the Downtown Centre Zoning District shall be reviewed by the
Planning and Zoning Board and City Commission.
         (b)   As relevant, the provisions of
Chapter 155, Subdivision Regulations, shall apply to the division of property,
the vacating of existing plats and the recombination of existing lots.
         (c)   These regulations do not relieve a development from meeting all
otherwise applicable land development codes. Development standards not
specifically addressed by this chapter but specifically addressed in the
standard City of Lake Mary Land Development Regulations shall also be
applicable to any project application for development or redevelopment within
the Downtown Centre Zoning District and if in conflict, the stricter standards
shall apply.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Fee simple residences.
            1. Front Yard = 10' (If approved by the City Commission, the front
yard setback may be reduced to zero feet.
            2.   Side Yard = 0'
            3.   Rear Yard = 20' (*)
            4.   Minimum Lot Width = 21'
            5.   Minimum Lot Area = 2,400
            6.   Minimum Fee Simple Dwelling Unit Size -
               a. Detached Single Family Dwelling = 1,800 Sq Ft
               b.   Townhouse = 1,600 Sq. Ft.
               c.   Duplex = 1,600 Sq. Ft.
         (b)   Nonresidential, condominiums and mixed use developments.
            1.   Front Yard = 10' (If approved by the City Commission, the
front yard setback may be reduced to zero feet.
            2.   Side Yard = 0'
            3.   Rear Yard = 20' (*)
*If an entire city downtown block (bounded by east/west and north/south
streets) is proposed for townhouse development and proof is submitted that it
is held under single ownership and if alleys are vacated, building separation
in lieu of rear setback shall be provided addressing life safety codes and at
minimum accommodating rear unit parking.
            4.   Minimum Lot Width = 21'
            5.   Minimum Apartment and Condominium Dwelling Unit Size -
               a.   One Bedroom = 750 Sq. Ft.
               b.   Two Bedroom = 1,000 Sq. Ft.
               c.   Three or More Bedrooms = 1,350 Sq. Ft.
         (c)   Setbacks adjacent to existing platted alleys. For all above
described residential developments the minimum rear setback shall be ten feet
if the property is adjacent to and abutting an existing, platted alley with a
minimum width of 20 feet.
         (d)   Front porch. A front porch may extend into the front yard
setback a maximum of seven feet.
         (e)   Awning and other similar decorative overhangs may extend up to
seven feet into the front setback.
         (f)   All single family detached and townhouse development shall have
rear accessed parking from alleys or access tracts. Parking may be designed to
be contained within the unit (attached). Detached garages shall be located a
minimum of ten feet behind the principal structure. The rear yard setback for a
detached garage may be a minimum of 15 feet. The rear yard setback for a
detached garage located on property which is adjacent to, and abutting an
existing, platted alley with a minimum width of 20 feet may be a minimum of ten
feet.
         (g)   Density = up to 18 DU/A(**)
(**) Density in excess of 18 DU/A is permitted when transfer of development
right (TDR) and/or density bonus dwelling units are transferred from city owned
property to the subject property. Such transfer of density and the maximum
density shall be at the discretion of the City Commission on a case-by-case
basis and shall comply with the provisions of §§
154.101 through
154.107.
         (h)   Building height. All townhouses with a northern exposure to
Grand Bend Avenue or Lake Mary Avenue shall be a maximum of two stories high.
All other uses may be three stories high or 35 feet, whichever is less.
         (i)   Lakefront setbacks. Lakefront setbacks shall be in accordance
with §
154.12 and
Chapter 160 as applicable.
      (3)   Landscaping and fencing.
         (a)   The landscaping requirements contained in this section shall
apply to development and redevelopment of residential and non-residential/mixed
use development in this zoning district and shall supersede the regulations
contained in
Chapter 157.
         (b)   Landscaping (on public rights-of-way). Each residential or
commercial/mixed use project shall landscape and maintain public rights-of-way
abutting their frontage line in accordance with the following requirements:
         (c)   Planting specification.
            1.   Front: Live Oaks or other canopy trees acceptable to the city
shall be planted on the curbside of the sidewalk area along the frontage of the
property at an average of one tree every 20 feet on center for development
which have residential units on the first floor. Such trees shall be located
within the public right-of-wav or along the building frontage at such locations
designated in the Downtown Street Landscaping Plan Cross Section Detail.* Tree
location must coordinate with on-street parking spaces, architectural feature
locations and building entries.
            2.   Landscaping (on building property). In addition to the right-
of-wav planting required in division (2) above, each new development or
redevelopment project shall be required to provide onsite landscaping via
foundation landscaping for front and rear facades which may take the form of
container plantings or buffer strips of at least seven feet in width. Plantings
in such strips shall be comprised of species and types as outlined in the plant
material standards of this section and that are compatible with the streetscape
(right-of-way) plantings. Townhouse development shall be required to provide
the buffer strip option with a minimum width of seven feet.
            3.   Each residential or commercial/mixed use project shall provide
a minimum of one canopy tree and five shrubs per 2,500 square feet of lot area
or fraction thereof prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
Projects not able to plant these required plantings on site shall have the
option of planting such trees elsewhere in the Downtown Centre Zoning area upon
approval of the City Commission or provide the monetary equivalent of such
plantings to the City of Lake Mary prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. Such money shall be utilized at the city's discretion within the
Downtown Centre area.
         (d)   Quality. Plant materials used in conformance with the provisions
of this section shall equal or exceed the Florida No. 1. as given in "Grades
and Standards for Nursery Plants." Part I 1963. and Part III State Department
of Agriculture, and amendments thereto.
            1.   Minimum size as planting.
               a.   Canopy Trees. Caliper = Three and one-half inches
                  i.   Height = 15 feet
                  ii.   Clear Trunk = Four feet
                  iii.   Crown Spread = Four feet
                  iv.   Canopy trees shall be of a species that shall have a
minimum crown spread of 40 feet at maturity.
               b.    Understory trees.
Caliper = One and one-half inches
                  i.   Height = Six feet
                  ii.   Understory trees shall be of a species considered to be
ornamental and that produce seasonal flowers or berries.
               c.   Hedge/Shrubs. Height = 18 inches.
                  i.   Plant spacing - minimum 30 inches on center
                  ii.   Shrubs or other plant material used to meet hedge
requirements must be of a species that grows to a minimum height of four feet
at maturity.
      (e)   Decorative fence. A decorative fence may be furnished for
residential projects provided the fence is no taller than four feet measured
from grade and the fence does not exceed 50% opacity. Allowable decorative
fences shall include picket fences, split rail fences, wrought iron fences,
wood lattices fences or brick lattice walls and the like, but shall not include
chain link fences or any derivation thereof, board on board stock fences,
stucco block or EIFS walls, or wire fences.
      (4)   Stormwater Facilities.
         (a)   Buffers adjacent to public rights-of-wav may not include
stormwater retention/detention facilities.
         (b)   The design high water elevation of a stormwater facility shall
be no closer than five feet to a side or rear property line unless it is shared
by adjoining nonresidential uses. Open dry bottom stormwater facilities shall
have a horizontal/vertical side slope ratio of three to one or greater. Open
wet bottom stormwater facilities shall have a horizontal/vertical side slope of
six to one or greater. The minimum bottom width of a stormwater facility shall
be three feet. A minimum three foot wide maintenance berm shall be provided
around the perimeter of the stormwater facility. Other stormwater requirements
shall be in accordance with
Chapter 155, Appendix C.
         (c)   Exfiltration facilities shall also meet the above described
setbacks and standards as applicable. With the permission of the City
Commission, exfiltration facilities may be placed within city owned rights-of-
way or on other city owned properties.
         (d)   Relief from landscaping requirements. At no time shall
stormwater facilities located in the buffer area relieve the applicant of
meeting the minimum landscaping requirements.
      (5)   Parking Design Standards.
         (a)   Off street parking. Except as contained in this document, all
surface parking lots and parking structures shall comply with the relevant
provisions of
Chapter 155, Appendix B.
         (b)   All off-street parking shall be to the rear of the building and
shall comply with the minimum size, per the chart contained in this section.
         (c)   Number of Required Parking Spaces.
            1.   All residential developments shall provide a minimum of two
parking spaces per dwelling unit. Parking spaces may be located on site, within
the ROW adjacent to the development and/or off-site/off-street.
            2.   There shall be a minimum of three off-street parking spaces
for each 1,000 square feet of office, commercial or retail use, which shall be
calculated from the net interior area. The net interior area is defined as the
enclosed area of a building excluding porches, arcades, balconies and internal
common area hallways.
            3.   With documentation of sufficiency acceptable to the city, the
required number of parking spaces may be reduced to 75% of the minimum number
of required parking spaces. Documentation of sufficiency shall include the type
of business being served and evidence of the frequency of parking space demand
of other similar businesses, hours of operation, and availability of other
parking spaces that may be utilized. Factors supporting sufficiency shall
include but not be limited to community parking facility, joint parking
agreements. (Minimum # of required parking spaces = 3 x 1,000 SF net floor area
x .75 = # of spaces)
         (d)   On-street and off-site-off-street parking spaces proposed to
support development shall be located no farther than 200 feet from the subject
property.
         (e)   Unless approved by the City Commission, parking spaces within
parking lots owned and/or leased by the city shall not be utilized to meet the
minimum number of required parking spaces for specific development.
         (f)   Access aisles. The access aisle is defined as the driving
surface used for ingress or egress to the site. Minimum access aisle shall be
ten feet for one-way traffic and 20 feet for two-way traffic. Parking areas
containing less than ten spaces shall not be required to provide two-way access
aisles for sites with one point of ingress/egress. Driveways at minimum shall
be setback from side property lines two feet.
         (g)   Space requirements at various parking angles for a nine feet by
18 feet parking space. Off-street parking areas shall be so designed as to meet
the minimum dimensions shown in the following table:
On-Site and Off-Site-Off-Street Parking Space Dimensions
Parking angle Stall Width Stall to Curb Parking Maneuvering Area  Curb Length
                                        (1)
0º           8'          8'            11'                       22'
30º          9'          15.9          11'                       16'
45º          9'          17.7          12'                       12.4'
40º          9'          18.4          12'                       11.3'
50º          9'          18.9          12'                       10.4'
60º          9'          19.6          17'                       9.2'
70º          9'          19.7          17'                       8.5'
80º          9'          19.1          22'                       8.1'
90º          9'          18'           22'                       8'
(1) Parking maneuvering area. The parking maneuvering area is defined as the
area necessary to maneuver a vehicle into and out of a parking stall
inclusive of the drive aisle surface.
 
         (h)   Handicapped parking. All handicapped parking stalls and access
ways shall meet all applicable Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards
and the Florida Accessibility Code. Please refer to Figure 8 for specific
details of handicapped parking spaces.
         (i)   On-street parking may be counted towards the minimum number of
required parking spaces; however, such parking spaces shall not extend beyond
the frontage(s) of the subject property, unless a waiver is granted by the City
Commission, due to special circumstances peculiar to the property in question.
On-street parking spaces shall be constructed by the developer and, if
applicable, will require stormwater retention and treatment.
         (j)   On-street parking/streetscape. Development or redevelopment of
residential or commercial/mixed use projects shall provide on street parking
along their street frontage(s). Property owners are advised that the standards
contained herein above are minimum standards and, at the discretion of the City
Commission, may be required to provide parking spaces that exceed the minimum.
Refer to the West Village and East Village for specific roadway design
standards.
         (k)   Off-street-off-site parking. Off-site parking areas shall be
allowed only as an accessory to a permitted use. Off-site parking areas shall
be located within 300 feet of the principal use, unless this standard is waived
by the City Commission at a duly advertised public hearing. The applicant must
present written justification for the waiver (not a variance) to staff.
            1.   In the event a developer does not provide on-site-off-street
parking, an off-site parking lot area can be used to meet the requirements of
this section. This off-site parking lot area shall be known as "off-street-off-
site parking."
            2.   Off-street-off-site parking areas shall be permissible as
conditional uses in the Downtown Centre Zoning District.
            3.   Off-street-off-site parking areas shall be governed by the
design standards as outlined in §
154.67 for off-street parking.
            4.   An opaque wall shall be erected to a height of no less than
four feet and no more than five feet along the side and rear lot lines when
such a parking area adjoins a residential use. Such walls shall be constructed
of a low maintenance finish such as split face block, brick, stone or other
similar material but shall not include stucco or (EIFS) Exterior Insulation
Finish System. Such a wall shall not be required where the applicant, for an
off-site parking area, has secured and filed with the application a notarial
waiver duly signed under seal by all abutting landowners waiving objection to
the existence of an un-walled off-site parking area. A minimum seven foot wide
landscape buffer shall be located along the frontage abutting public rights-of-
way of such parking areas and planted with a continuous hedge and three
understory trees every 100 linear feet meeting the plant material standards of
this chapter.
         (l)   Bicycle racks shall be provided at a rate of one space per 2,500
square feet of nonresidential use. When calculations determining the number of
required bicycle rack spaces result in a fractional space, any fraction up to
and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half shall
require one rack space. Bicycle lockers may also be provided: however, they
shall be in addition to bicycle racks.
         (m)   Acceptable parking surface materials. Acceptable parking surface
materials shall include durable all weather surface material including
concrete, brick, asphalt, permanent porous grating, or other permanent dust-
free surfaces: but shall not include wood chips or other material subject to
decay. Stone may be used for parking surface material subject to the following:
            1.   Parking areas containing ten or fewer parking spaces or-less-
may utilize stone for parking surfaces. In such cases the access aisle may also
be stone: however, handicapped parking spaces shall be asphalt or concrete.
            2.   Stone shall not be used on any driveway or parking aisle
within 15 feet of a street right-of-way (unless separated by a landscaped
buffer).
            3.   No limerock or similar calcareous material shall be used for
stone surfaces.
            4.   Coverage of stone surface areas in parking spaces and driving
aisles shall be a minimum of four inches in depth.
         (n)   Parking spaces constructed by the city in the downtown. Parking
spaces constructed by the city, either within the ROW (on-street) or within
public parking lots (off-street-off-site), may be utilized to support
development within the downtown with the written approval of the City
Commission in a Right-of-Way Use Agreement acceptable to the City Commission,
and subject to the following conditions:
            1.   An owner must pay the city for the use of the on-street or
public off-street-off-site parking spaces at a cost of $5,000 per space, or an
alternate price deemed appropriate by the City Commission based on a
consideration of the value of the parking spaces. The city will use the monies
collected to provide parking for the downtown.
            2.   The same parking space may not be utilized for development of
more than one business/use.
         (o)   Except as specifically authorized by the City Commission, public
parking spaces are for the use of the public and cannot be considered reserved
by any specific business/use.
      (6)   Infrastructure.
         (a)   Central sanitary sewer facilities. Applicants for development
and/or redevelopment shall comply with all relevant standards adopted at that
time.
         (b)   Septic tanks. Applicants for development and/or redevelopment
shall comply with all relevant standards adopted at that time.
         (c)   Landscape relief. The location and coverage of the septic tank
and drainfield shall not relieve the developer of any landscape requirements.
         (d)   Signs. All signage shall comply with the relevant provisions of
Chapter 155, Appendix I of the city's Code of Ordinances.
         (e)   Lighting. Lights used to illuminate any premise or parking area
shall be designed as follows:
            1.   Stand alone light fixtures shall be decorative lamp post type
with a maximum height of ten feet.
            2.   Decorative bollard fixtures a maximum of three feet in height
may be utilized to illuminate walkways.
            3.   Light fixtures must be setback a minimum of five feet from
side and/or rear the property lines.
            4.   If light fixtures are adjacent to residential property they
must be non-illuminated on the side facing the residential use.
            5.   Excluding rights-of-wav and sidewalks along rights-of-way,
maximum light at the property line shall not exceed .5 foot candles.
            6.   A minimum of one decorative light shall illuminate the
business front entry.
            7.   Development shall install outdoor parking lot lights that
comply with the provisions of §
154.22. Outdoor Lighting Standards.
            8.   Street Lighting. As a condition of development and/or
redevelopment, the applicant shall install outdoor lighting in adjacent rights-
of-way. Such lighting shall have a maximum spacing of 100 feet spacing and not
exceed .5 foot candles, as measured at the property line within ten feet of the
source of the light. Such lights shall be placed at intersections and the
spacing shall be from the intersection.
            9.   Although building mounted lighting is permissible, it shall be
downward directed and shall not exceed .5 foot candles at the property line. At
no time shall outdoor lighting create a glare or other hazardous condition to
vehicles operating on any roadway.
            10. The design of all outdoor lighting shall be approved by the
City Commission.
         (f)   Pavers. Except for sidewalks located within City of Lake Marv or
Seminole County rights-of-wav, all sidewalks shall be constructed of pavers.
      (7)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   General intent and theme. These architectural standards are set
forth by the Lake Mary City Commission and are intended to support the vision
of the Downtown Master Plan for buildings within the Downtown Centre Zoning
District by:
            1.   Establishing a measure /degree of architectural harmony by
guiding building proportion, scale and materials: and
            2.   Encouraging the design of building frontages that support
pedestrian activity. Fundamental to these standards is the conviction that the
traditional suburban building styles that have defined our urban environment in
recent years are contrary to the vision of a pedestrian oriented downtown and
are not encouraged. These standards are intended to provide a framework for the
successful execution of quality urban architecture.
         (b)   Architectural design shall be included as part of the site plan,
which the City Commission shall review and act upon. Unless the City Commission
approves the proposed architectural design as part of the site plan, the site
plan has not been approved and the City shall not issue building and/or site
permits for the subject property. Prior to the submittal of the site plan, an
applicant may request the City Commission to review and provide feedback
regarding the proposed architecture of a development. Such feedback shall not
be construed as approval of the proposed architecture. The architectural
standards permitted in each district are addressed in the design standards for
that district.
         (c)   Building articulation. The articulation of a building is the
composition of the large-scale volumes and excludes smaller elements and
details. All buildings shall be articulated in plan (facade) and elevation
(roof) per Figure 1. This articulation of buildings is a powerful tool to
breakdown the mass to one more compatible with the smaller adjoining buildings
on block faces or frontages. Articulation shall also be used to emphasize a
corner or street/park axis.
         (d)   Building scale. Scale is a form of articulation and is
effectively implemented by incorporating elements into the facade such as
windows, balconies, loggias, and parapets. All buildings shall adhere to this
building scale standard.
         (e)   Building frontages. The frontage of a building is a key
contributor to pedestrian activity. The frontage is that portion of the
building which faces a public or private street or open space or stair step
park. Building frontages shall be composed of a base, mid-section and a cap
(See Figure 2). Greater care shall be taken on frontage design by the architect
and the development team. All applicants for development approval shall provide
architectural elevations and architectural renderings with the site plan
submittal and incorporate the following elements in addition to the specific
residential and commercial/mixed use standards outlined further in this
chapter:
            1.   The first floor of the frontage of a building shall consist of
a "base." It is this base frontage that has the greatest effect on pedestrian
activity in the downtown and includes but is not limited to a shopfront,
residential stoop or a porch.
            2.   The second floor of the frontage of a building shall be
identified as the middle section and shall be differentiated from the base
through the use of shallow balconies, a short setback, architectural trim or a
covered loggia (indented balcony). The transition shall also be supported by a
change of window rhythm or size and a change in material or color.
            3.   The third floor of the frontage of a building shall be
identified as the cap and shall be accented with window rhythms as in the
second floor and cornice work in transitioning with the roof line. The roof
must be of pitched design such as hip, gable or gambrel. A building of two or
more stories may have a flat roof, provided a balcony or cantilever, or other
similar architectural feature is provided or if the building is designed to
have a roof garden or other "green roof” feature.
            4.   Exterior building materials shall be consistent with the
architectural style of the building. Wall finish (including walls, chimneys and
other appurtenances) shall be primarily smooth stucco, native stone,
terracotta, marble, granite, brick and other natural materials that age with
integrity. EIFS shall not be permitted.
         (f)   Townhomes Residential.
            1.   The same front facade for townhouses may not be repeated more
than five times within one block length for both sides of any street and shall
be separated by at least two lots with different facades. However, a row of
townhouses may be permitted to exceed the aforementioned requirement upon
approval by the City Commission. An applicant seeking a waiver to this
requirement (not a variance) shall submit architectural elevations and artist
renderings depicting said proposal for review by staff and the City Commission.
            2.   No more than 35% of the front facade of a house shall consist
of an unobstructed wall. Such walls shall include windows or other
architectural treatments to visually break up the facade in accordance with
standards set forth in Building Frontages, division (7)(e) above.
         (g)   Commercial/mixed use.
            1.   For new development, facades shall be built directly on the
front building setback line for at least 50% of the linear footage.
            2.   At least 50% of the first floor of the building front facade
shall consist of window area and/or entryway area, but in no case shall more
than 50% of each building front facade consist of undifferentiated opaque wall
area.
            3.   Sides or rears of building when facing a public street shall
consist of window area and/or entryway area, but in no case shall more than 50%
of each building front facade consist of undifferentiated opaque wall area.
            4.   Primary entries shall face a public street. If available the
primary entrance shall be accessed by a public sidewalk.
            5.   Roofs on new structures, not including additions to existing
structures, shall be of a pitched design such as hip, gable or gambrel. If the
new structure contains two or more stories, a flat roof may be permitted
provided a balcony or cantilever or other similar architectural feature is
provided on the second story level.
            6.   Ground floor storefront glass shall be clear, as any
saturation will cause the display to become invisible behind the resulting
reflection. Unless specifically prohibited by the City Commission, windows
above the ground floor may have reflective (mirror) or colored glass.
         (h)   Sidewalk standards. Sidewalks located within the downtown area
shall be no less than six feet wide, except as permitted by the City
Commission. In no instance shall sidewalks be less than five feet wide. The
sidewalk dimensions referenced herein may be required to be accommodated by
providing sidewalk area on both public right-of-way and private property. When
sidewalks are provided within the front yard setback (private property), the
owner of subject property shall give the City a pedestrian sidewalk easement
over that portion of the property developed as sidewalk.
         (i)   In compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA),
all sidewalks shall have a minimum 44 inch wide clear travel area.
   (G)   West Village Development Standards. The West Village area is generally
described as that portion of downtown located north of Lake Mary Boulevard,
east of 5th Street, west and north of the SunRail Railroad. (See Map #2 for
specific boundaries.)
      (1)   Street design standards. The streets within the West Village are as
follows:
         • 50' wide ROW = 2nd Street and Seminole Avenue between 4th and 5th
Streets
         • 40' wide ROW = Old Lake Mary Road between Crystal Lake Avenue and
Wilbur Avenue
         • 66' wide ROW = 1st Street, 4th Street and 5th Street
         • 78' wide ROW = Lakeview, Crystal Lake Avenue, Wilbur Avenue, Lake
Mary Avenue, Grand Bend Avenue, east of Country Club Road, and Seminole Avenue,
between 4th Street and 5th Street.
         • County Roads are as follows: Lake Mary Boulevard & Country Club Road
         (a)   Development on Old Lake Mary Road. For development adjacent to
Old Lake Mary Road, there shall be two 12-foot wide travel lanes and 2-foot
wide curbs and gutter. On one side of the roadway only, there shall be a
minimum 5-foot wide landscape buffer and a minimum 6-foot wide sidewalk. All
on-street parking shall be parallel parking spaces. The parallel space shall be
no less than 8-foot wide and 22 feet long. For that portion of the sidewalk on
private property, the owner shall give the city a pedestrian access easement.
Please refer to Figure #4 for details regarding the standard 40-foot roadway
section.
         (b)   Development on 2nd Street. For development adjacent to 2nd
Street, there shall be two 12-foot wide travel lanes and 2- foot wide curbs and
gutter. On each side of the street, a minimum 5-foot wide landscape buffer and
a minimum 6-foot wide sidewalk. All on-street parking shall be parallel parking
spaces. The parallel space shall be no less than 8 feet wide and 22 feet long.
For that portion of the sidewalk on private property, the owner shall give the
city a pedestrian access easement. Please refer to Figure #3 for details
regarding the standard 50-foot wide roadway section.
         (c)   Development adjacent to streets with a 66-foot wide ROW shall
have a minimum of two 12-foot wide travel lanes and 45 degree angled on-street
parking on both sides of the street. The developer shall construct the parking
within the ROW adjacent to the subject property. The curb shall act as wheel
stops. The distance from the center line of the street to the back of the curb
shall be 24.5 feet. There shall be a 5-foot wide landscape area behind the curb
and a minimum 6-foot wide sidewalk. For that portion of the sidewalk on private
property, the owner shall give the city a pedestrian access easement. Please
refer to Figure #6 for details regarding the standard 66-foot wide roadway
section.
         (d)   Grand Bend Avenue, west of Country Club Road, is only a partial
ROW. At such time as development is proposed for property adjacent to this
section of Grand Bend, the City Commission shall determine the location and
configuration of the travel lanes, parking, landscape buffer and sidewalks.
         (e)   Development adjacent to streets with a 78-foot wide ROW shall
have a minimum of two 12-foot wide travel lanes, 45 degree angled on-street
parking, a 5-foot wide landscape buffer and a minimum 8-foot wide sidewalk on
each side of the roadway. For that portion of the sidewalk on private property,
the owner shall give the city a pedestrian access easement. The developer shall
construct the parking within the ROW adjacent to the subject property. Please
refer to Figure #7 for details.
         (f)   Lake Mary Boulevard and Country Club Road are currently Seminole
County roadways. Seminole County does not permit on-street parking on these
roadways. From its intersection with Lake Mary Boulevard and running a distance
of approximately 218 feet north. Country Club Road has a right-of-way width of
90 feet. Beginning at 218 feet north of Lake Mary Boulevard and running through
the Downtown, the Country Club Road right-of-way width varies between 58 feet
and 59.62 feet. If that portion of Country Club Road through the downtown
should be dedicated to the city, the City Commission shall determine if on-
street parking shall be permitted.
         (g)   Traffic calming devices. For all streets with a ROW of 50 feet
or wider, traffic calming devices shall be required at intersections and mid-
block locations. Traffic calming devices shall be constructed at such time as
the adjacent properties develop and/or redevelop. Unless otherwise prohibited
by the City Commission, traffic calming devices shall comply with the design
per Figure #9 of this document.
         (h)   Traffic circles. As a condition of approval of a site plan, the
construction of a traffic circle may be required by the City Commission. All
traffic circles shall be constructed to meet or exceed the city's minimum
standards.
      (2)   Parking.
         (a)   Properties directly abutting the commuter rail platform are
exempt from the requirements of §
154.67(F)(5)(c)2.
         (b)   With the exception of properties that comply with (a) above, all
other properties must comply with the requirements of §
154.67(F)(5)(c)2.
         (c)   Required parking spaces may be located on-site, off-site-off-
street (in dedicated parking lots) or on-street.
      (3)   Mixed use development. Unless approved by the City Commission, the
ground floor of a mixed use building shall be non-residential. The second and
subsequent floors may be either non-residential and/or residential.
      (4)   Setbacks. Please refer to the setbacks listed in District Wide
Development Standards.
      (5)   Architectural style. The overall architectural theme for the West
Village is Mediterranean and Italianate, incorporating concepts of New
Urbanism. All development and redevelopment in the Downtown Centre Zoning
District shall incorporate the following design elements into their building
design in addition to all standards contained in this section.
         (a)   Mediterranean. This architecture is characterized by clay tile
or barrel roofs; stucco exterior walls: straight or arched windows; iron window
grills: balconies: ceramic tile decorations: ornate low relief carvings
highlighting arches: columns and window surrounds and cornices.
         (b)   Italianate. This architecture is characterized by low pitched
roof with overhanging eaves supported by decorative brackets: square cupolas or
towers often rising above the roof line and tall narrow U-shaped windows
commonly arched and displaying elaborate crowns.
      (6)   During the site plan review process, the applicant shall provide
information regarding the placement and style of all proposed hardscape.
Hardscape shall include but not be limited to pedestrian benches, bicycle
racks/lockers, outdoor lighting, signage and architectural features.
   (H)   East Village Development Standards. The East Village is comprised of
that area of the downtown located north of Lake Mary Boulevard, south and east
of the SunRail Railroad and west of the corporate limits. (See Map #3 for
specific boundaries.)
      (1)   Street design standards. The north/south city streets within this
area are as follows: Palmetto Street, Lake Street, Hollis Street and High
Street. Greenleaf Lane is the only east/west street in this area. Currently,
all internal streets have a 40- foot wide right-of-way.
         (a)   Palmetto Street is the only internal street that crosses the CSX
Railroad and connects the West Village with the East Village. Palmetto Street
was been identified as a by-pass corridor for west bound traffic on Old Lake
Mary Road to access Lake Mary Boulevard. Additionally, Palmetto Street will
provide direct access to the proposed Lake Mary SunRail Station. The proposed
right-of-way for Palmetto Street is 60 feet. Parallel parking is proposed along
both sides of Palmetto. The developer shall construct the parking within the
ROW adjacent to the subject property. As travel demand increases on Palmetto
Street, the parallel parking may be converted into additional travel lanes, as
shown in Figure #5.
         (b)   The primary purpose of Green Leaf Lane, Lake Street, Hollis
Street and High Street is to provide access to adjacent property. For
development purposes, these streets shall have a 50-foot wide right-of-way.
Refer to Figure #3 for the development standards for these streets.
         (c)   At intersections and mid-block, traffic calming devices shall be
constructed as part of the on-street improvements associated with development
and/or redevelopment of adjacent properties. Unless permitted by the City
Commission, traffic calming devices shall comply with the design per Figure #9
of this document.
         (d)   Traffic circles. As a condition of approval of a site plan, the
construction of a traffic circle may be required by the City Commission. All
traffic circles shall be constructed to meet or exceed the city's minimum
standards.
      (2)   Setbacks. Please refer to the setbacks listed in District Wide
Development Standards.
      (3)   Architectural style. The Southeast Downtown District does not have
a specified architectural style; however, it is the intent of the city that the
architecture within this district be compatible. To prevent conflicting
architectural styles, all proposed architecture shall be approved by the City
Commission as part of the site plan review process. Prior to formal site plan
submittal, an applicant may request that the City Commission review and provide
non-binding feedback regarding the proposed architecture of the development.
      (4)   During the site plan review process, the applicant shall provide
information regarding the placement and style of all proposed hardscape.
Hardscape shall include but not be limited to pedestrian benches, bicycle
racks/lockers, outdoor lighting, signage and architectural features.
(Ord. 906, passed 11-19-98; Am. Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1038,
passed 11-1-01; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 8-21-03; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06;
Am. Ord. 1348, passed 4-15-10; Am. Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12; Am. Ord. 1486,
passed 5-16-13; Am. Ord. 1487, passed 5-16-13; Am. Ord. 1616, passed  11-21-19;
Am. Ord. 1620, passed 6-18-20)
 
Note: Maps #1-4 and Figures 1-9 are available in PDF by clicking HERE
MAP #1 - DOWNTOWN CENTRE ZONING DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6095.jpg]
 
MAP #2 - WEST VILLAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6102.jpg]
 
MAP #3 - EAST VILLAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6106.jpg]
 
MAP #4 - DOWNTOWN MASTER PLAN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6110.jpg]
 
FIGURE #1, BUILDING ARTICULATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6130.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6132.jpg]
 
FIGURE #2, BUILDING FRONTAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6134.jpg]
 
FIGURE #3, MINIMUM ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS - 50' WIDE ROW
   Two 12' wide travel lanes
   8' x 22' parallel parking spaces
   5' wide landscape buffer
   6' wide sidewalk
Every 99', landscape breaks shall be constructed between on-street parking
spaces
Handicapped parking space design standards per Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6136.jpg]
 
FIGURE #4, MINIMUM ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS - 50' WIDE ROW
Two 12' wide travel lanes
8' x 22' parallel parking spaces (One side of street only)
5' wide landscape buffer (One side of street only)
6' wide sidewalk (One side of street only)
Every 99', landscape breaks shall be constructed between on-street parking
spaces
Handicapped parking space design standards per Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6138.jpg]
 
FIGURE #5, MINIMUM ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS EAST VILLAGE - 60' WIDE ROW
Two 12' wide travel lanes with 45 degree angled on-street parking with option
for four 12' wide travel lanes without on-street parking
5' wide landscape buffer (east side only)
6' wide sidewalk
Every 99', landscape breaks shall be constructed between on-street parking
spaces
Handicapped parking space design standards per Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6140.jpg]
 
FIGURE #6, MINIMUM ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS WEST VILLAGE - 66' WIDE ROW
Two 12' wide travel lanes
45 degree angled 9' x 18' parking spaces
5' wide landscape buffer
6' wide sidewalk
Every 99', landscape breaks shall be constructed between on-street parking
spaces
Handicapped parking space design standards per Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6142.jpg]
 
FIGURE #7, MINIMUM ROADWAY DESIGN STANDARDS WEST VILLAGE - 78' WIDE ROW
Two 12' wide travel lanes
45 degree angled 9' x 18' parking space
5' wide landscape buffer
10' wide sidewalk
Every 99', landscape breaks shall be constructed between on-street parking
spaces
Handicapped parking space design standards per Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6144.jpg]
 
FIGURE #8, HANDICAPPED PARKING DETAIL
Parallel handicapped parking space -
Minimum length = 22'
Minimum width = 8'
Minimum access aisle width = 5'
Handicapped parking spaces shall have 5' wide access aisle at the head or foot
of the parking space, which is in addition to the length of the parking spaces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6146.jpg]
 
FIGURE #9, PEDESTRIAN CROSSING AND TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICE DESIGN STANDARDS.
The intent of traffic calming devices is twofold. They reduce the speed of
vehicles and increase the safety of pedestrians by providing greater visibility
and decreasing the street distance they must cross. the most common type of
traffic calming devices is the bumpout, which may be located at intersections
and/or mid-block. Unless approved by City Commission, all traffic calming
devices shall have the following:
      •   A reduction in the width of the travel land/parking area.
      •   A surface that contrasts with the surface of the street on either
side.
      •   Landscaping that does not block visibility of driver and/or the
pedestrian.
See below for an example of both mid-block and intersection traffic calming
devices.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6148.jpg]
 
§ 154.68 SCHOOL LOCATIONAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Description of district. This district is established in order to
identify and establish those geographic areas that are appropriate for the
development of private and public elementary, middle, high schools, colleges
and universities or similar school providing educational curriculum meeting
general public or education requirements established by the state. Areas of the
city for which these categories are appropriate are designed on the
comprehensive plan as public/semi-public.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land in the School Zoning District shall be used, and
no building shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged,
except for the permitted and conditional uses listed on Table 1. The uses
listed as conditional are permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
   (C)   School location criteria. Per the City of Lake Mary Comprehensive
Plan, the following criteria shall be used in locating public and private
schools within the city:
      (1)   Future land use designations for public and private schools.
         (a)   Elementary schools shall be permitted by right in all
residential future land use designations.
         (b)   If the proposed site plan for a new elementary school, located
in a residential future land use designation, complies with the requirements of
state law, the only requirement to commence construction is the city
determination that the site plan for the new elementary school complies with
state law and applicable codes.
         (c)   New elementary schools shall be deemed to be permitted uses in
all other future land use designations, with the exception of conservation,
provided that the City Commission determines the proposed site and elementary
school are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan through the process specified
in §
154.68(C)(1)(f).
         (d)   New middle and high schools shall be deemed a permitted use in
all future land use designations, with the exception of conservation, provided
that the city determines the proposed site and school are consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan through the process specified in §
154.68(C)(1)(f).
         (e)   Colleges and community colleges, including those offering high
school equivalency programs, such as GED or dual enrollment programs; and/or
other schools or programs that have as their primary purpose the instruction of
technology that is directly related to High Technology uses listed in the M-1A
zoning district, or uses permitted by the City Commission, are allowable uses.
Schools in existence in this overlay district as of the effective date of this
amendment shall be deemed permitted uses in the underlying future land use
designation and zoning district in which they are located and consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan.
         (f)   Except for those elementary schools sites in residential future
land use designations, the city shall make a determination of consistency
through a public hearing process that conforms with the requirements applicable
to conditional uses as set forth in §
154.71(C) and §
154.72 of the Land Development Code. The one-year time limit for conditional
use permits shall not apply to school site approvals. In reviewing a proposed
location for consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, the city shall consider
the following additional locational criteria during the public hearing process:
            1.   The school site shall be of sufficient size to insure that the
building and ancillary facilities are located away from floodplains, flood
prone areas, wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas, including
historic or archeological resources. School size and land area requirements for
public schools should meet the minimum standards of the Seminole County School
Board.
            2.   Public schools shall be centrally located within their
intended attendance zones to the maximum extent possible.
            3.   Central water and sewer facilities shall be available to the
site and stormwater provisions must meet extent possible.
            4.   Access to the site shall be from a collector or minor
collector road and sufficient vehicle stacking lanes should be provided to
avoid detrimental impacts on adjacent roads.
            5.   Schools shall be designed to minimize the impacts to adjacent
land uses through control of site aspects such as traffic, landscaping, buffers
and building layout. Schools shall also provide safe access for pedestrians,
cars, and buses and shall be encouraged to provide for convenient access to
mass-transit.
            6.   School sites shall be located away from land uses that
generate noise, odors, dust, truck traffic and/or other hazards to the health
and safety of the students.
            7.   New elementary, middle or high schools shall not be located in
the city's High Tech Industrial Corridor which is targeted for major economic
growth and development.
            8.   Elementary and middle schools should be located where land
uses are predominately low-medium to high density residential and include
housing types and densities sufficient to meet the school's enrollment capacity
with students that are predominately within walking distance of the school.
            9.   High schools shall be located away from residential areas
unless there is sufficient buffering to protect the adjacent land uses from the
intensity and activity of the school. The campus should provide adequate on
site parking.
            10.   If the city determines that the site is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan as outlined above, the only remaining requirements to
commence construction is city determination that the site plan complies with
state and local laws, building permit and site permit issuance, as applicable.
   (D)   School locational criteria. See Table 1.
   Table 1
Zoning District Elementary Schools Middle Schools High Schools Colleges/
                                                               Universities
Zoning District Elementary Schools Middle Schools High Schools Colleges/
                                                               Universities
A-1             P*                 C*             C*           C
RCE             P                  C              C
R-1A, R-1AA, R- P                  C              C
1AAA, R-1B
R-2             P                  C              C
R-3             P                  C              C
RM              P                  C              C
PO              C*                 C              C
C-1             C                  C              C
C-2             C*                 C              C            C
M-1A            C*                 C*             C*           C*
M-2A            C*                 C*             C*           C*
DC              P                  C*             C*           C*
GU              P                  P              P
 
P= Permitted use
C= Conditional Use
* Prohibited in areas having High-Tech/Industrial Corridor Protection Area
District.
(Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06; Am. Ord. 1342, passed 1-21-10)
§ 154.69 GOVERNMENT USE ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description of district. The Government Use (GU) district is
established in order to identify and provide for geographic areas within the
city that are appropriate for the development of governmental entities,
including local, state or federal government units, libraries, places of
worship, cemeteries, parks and public transportation facilities. Areas of the
city for which this zoning category is appropriate are designated on the land
use plan as public/semi-public.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses. No building or land in the GU district
shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter erected, structurally
altered, or enlarged, except for the permitted and conditional uses listed
below. Conditional uses are permitted only after approval in accordance with §§
154.70 through
154.73.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   Parks, playgrounds and recreational areas.
         (b)   Government administrative, public safety and judicial buildings.
         (c)   Libraries.
         (d)   Post office.
      (2)    Conditional uses:
         (a)   Government maintenance facilities.
         (b)   Hospitals.
         (c)   Churches.
         (d)   Communication towers.
   (C)   Site development standards. All GU land uses are subject to site plan
approval in accordance with
Chapter 156. The following standards are also hereby established to maintain
the purpose of the district, to promote the functional compatibility of uses,
to promote the safe and efficient circulation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, and to otherwise protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
      (1)   Access requirements must comply with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, Street System Requirements.
      (2)   Minimum setbacks. The minimum yard requirements in the government
use (GU) district shall be subject to staff review and determination on the
basis of good planning and design and published safety standards.
      (3)   Maximum building height. The maximum height of buildings and
structure in the government use (GU) district shall be 35 feet.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be in accordance with
Appendix B of
Chapter 155.
   (E)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   All GU uses must conform to applicable setback, landscape, and
buffer requirements in
Chapter 157 of this code.
      (2)   Lakefront regulations are included in §
154.12.
      (3)   School location, regulations and requirements are included in §
154.68.
(Ord. 1219, passed 11-2-06)
CONDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.70 DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   A conditional use may not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout a zoning district, but if controlled as to number, area,
location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public health,
safety, convenience, appearance, or general welfare.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements of this chapter, all conditional
uses for a specific zoning district shall be subject to special requirements
and the approval procedures outlined in §§
154.71 through
154.73 below.
   (C)   The sensitive nature of certain conditional uses requires individual
assessment of the location. Such use may be appropriate in one location but not
in another, even though both sites may have the same zoning.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 154.71 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All conditional uses shall require a conditional use permit and site
plan approval prior to the granting of a building permit. Site plan approval
shall be in accordance with
Chapter 156. All applications for a conditional use permit shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Site and development plans showing the proposed use and placement
of structure provisions for ingress/egress, off-street parking, loading, refuse
areas, setback yards, and open spaces.
      (2)   Plans for screening and buffering with reference to type,
dimension, and character.
      (3)   Plans for proposed utility connections.
      (4)   Proposed landscaping and the protection of trees.
      (5)   Proposed signs and lighting, including type, dimensions, and
character.
   (B)   Where the rezoning of land and a conditional use permit are requested
simultaneously for the same parcel of land, both petitions may be processed
concurrently.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the conditional use permit
request and make recommendations to the City Commission. After report and
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board is made and filed, the
conditional use permit request shall be submitted to the City Commission at a
public hearing for its approval or disapproval after due public notice.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 416, passed 2-16-88; Am. Ord. 597, passed
4-2-92)
§ 154.72 FINDINGS, CONDITIONS, AND SAFE GUARDS.
   (A)   Before any conditional use permit shall be approved, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall make a written finding that the granting of the permit will
not adversely affect the public interest, and that satisfactory provisions have
been made concerning the following matters, where applicable:
      (1)   Compliance with all applicable elements of the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Acceptable ingress and egress, with particular reference to
automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and
access in case of fire or catastrophe.
      (3)   Acceptable economic, noise, glare, or odor effects of the
conditional use on adjoining properties and properties generally in the
district.
      (4)   Acceptable location, availability, and compatibility of utilities.
      (5)   Acceptable screening and buffering.
      (6)   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other properties
in the district.
   (B)   In approving any conditional use, the Planning and Zoning Board may
also require appropriate conditions and safeguards as part of the terms under
which the conditional use permit is granted. Violations of those conditions and
safeguards shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (C)   After a conditional use permit is granted, the use of land and
construction will be in accordance with the approved site and development
plans.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.73 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Any conditional use approved as required by this subchapter shall
expire one year after the conditional use permit was granted unless a building
permit based upon and incorporating the conditional use is obtained within the
aforesaid 12 month period.
   (B)   An extension of one additional year may be granted on request of the
applicant where conditions have not changed during the first year. The request
for the conditional use approval extension must be filed with the city at least
30 days prior to the expiration of the aforesaid 12 month period.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 850, passed 9-18-97)
HOME-BASED BUSINESSES
§ 154.80 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “HOME-BASED BUSINESS.” A business that operates, in whole or in part, from a
residential property and meets the criteria in F.S. § 559.955 and this code.
(Ord. 391, passed 9-15-88; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21)
§ 154.81 CONDITIONS, LIMITATIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A permitted home-based business shall meet the following criteria.
   (A)   The employees of the business who work at the residential dwelling
must also reside in the residential dwelling, except that up to a total of two
employees or independent contractors who do not reside at the residential
dwelling may work at the business. The business may have additional remote
employees that do not work at the residential dwelling.
   (B)   Parking related to the business activities of the home-based business
complies with city zoning requirements in the residential zoning category, and
the need for parking generated by the business may not be greater in volume
than would normally be expected at a similar residence where no business is
conducted. The use of vehicles or trailers operated or parked at the business
or on a street right-of-way are regulated as provided in §§
70.27  and
154.18 . Vehicles and trailers used in connection with the business must be
parked in legal parking spaces that are not located within the right-of-way, on
or over a sidewalk, or on any unimproved surfaces at the residence. The parking
or storage of heavy equipment at the business that is visible from the street
or neighboring property is regulated as provided in §§
70.27  and
154.18 , For purposes of this division, the term "HEAVY EQUIPMENT" means
commercial, industrial or agricultural vehicles, equipment or machinery,
including those defined as "PROHIBITED VEHICLES" in §
154.09 .
   (C)   As viewed from the street, the use of the residential property is
consistent with the uses of the residential areas that surround the property.
External modifications made to a residential dwelling to accommodate a home-
based business must conform to the residential character and architectural
aesthetics of the neighborhood. The home-based business may not conduct retail
transactions at a structure other than the residential dwelling; however,
incidental business uses and activities may be conducted at the residential
property.
   (D)   The activities of the home-based business are secondary to the
property’s use as a residential dwelling.
   (E)   The business activities comply with any relevant local or state
regulations with respect to signage and equipment or processes that create
noise, vibration, heat, smoke, dust, glare, fumes or noxious odors. Any local
regulations on a business with respect to noise, vibration, heat smoke, dust,
glare, fumes or noxious odors may not be more stringent than those that apply
to a residence where no business is conducted.
   (F)   All business activities comply with any relevant local, state and
federal regulations with respect to the use, storage or disposal of any
corrosive, combustible or other hazardous or flammable materials or liquids.
Any local regulations on a business with respect to the use, storage or
disposal of any corrosive, combustible or other hazardous or flammable
materials or liquids may not be more stringent than those that apply to a
residence where no business is conducted.
   (G)   The home-based business may be identified by one sign, not exceeding
one square foot in area. Any such sign may not be illuminated.
(Ord. 391, passed 9-15-88; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21)
§ 154.82 BUSINESS TAX RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   All home-based businesses shall be required to obtain a business tax receipt
prior to the start of such use. In addition to any other submittals required
for a business tax receipt, the applicant shall submit the following:
   (A)   Location of dwelling where the home-based business will be conducted;
   (B)   Total floor area of the dwelling unit;
   (C)   Area of room or rooms to be utilized in conduct of the home-based
business;
   (D)   The exact nature of the home-based business.
(Ord. 391, passed 9-15-88; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21)
§ 154.83 EXPIRATION; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Expiration of business tax receipt. Each business tax receipt issued
for a home-based business shall expire on September 30 of each year. Each
business tax receipt must be renewed by October 1 of each year by application
to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Nontransferability. The authority to conduct a home-based business
shall be personal to the business tax receipt holder and shall not be
transferred to any other person through the sale, lease, rental, or other
conveyance of the property where the home-based business is located. A home-
based business can only be conducted at the premises for which the business tax
receipt is issued.
(Ord. 391, passed 9-15-88; Am. Ord. 1647, passed 10-7-21)
BIG LAKE MARY OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 154.90 BIG LAKE MARY OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Geographic area. The Big Lake Mary overlay zoning designation shall
apply to the area south of Lake Mary Boulevard, north of Big Lake Marv, east of
the CSX railroad and west of the east corporate limits line.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of the Big Lake Mary overlay land use designation
is to provide for residential development along the north side of Big Lake Mary
and to protect the lake from wetlands removal, stormwater runoff, septage from
on-site septic systems and other environmental impacts. Development within the
Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district shall comply with the relevant provisions
of §
154.12; however, if there is a conflict between the provisions of this section
and §
154.12, properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Permitted and conditional uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family residences, with their customary accessory uses
such as docks and storage sheds, etc. Guest houses and/or garage apartments are
acceptable accessory uses for A-1 and R-CE zoned properties only.
      (2)   Conditional uses. At this time, the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning
district does not permit conditional uses.
   (D)   Municipal utilities and on-site septic systems.
      (1)   All new development shall connect to municipal potable water, per
code and/or applicable planned unit development (PUD) agreement.
      (2)   If an on-site septic system is allowed by code, such septic system
shall be located in front of the residential structure.
   (E)   Environmental protection. The following measures are required to
protect Big Lake Mary and the adjacent wetland areas.
      (1)   Stormwater.
         (a)   Run-off. All new development, redevelopment of existing lots,
additions to existing structures and the construction of accessory structures
shall provide on-site stormwater retention per code.
         (b)   During construction of all new development, redevelopment of
existing lots, additions to existing structures and the construction of
accessory structures, the owner of the property shall install silt fence and/or
any other means of erosion control approved by the city to prevent the run-off
of sediments.
      (2)   Wetland protection.
         (a)   All permits for work on lots within the Big Lake Mary overlay
zoning district shall be accompanied by a survey that clearly shows the
location of all wetlands, the 100-year flood elevation and the mean high water
elevation.
         (b)   The location of all wetlands shall be delineated by a
professional biologist, ecologist or other consultant approved by the city.
         (c)   There shall be no development activity, including but not
limited to, filling, excavation, or removal of wetland vegetation within the
wetland area of lots within the Big Lake Mary overlay area, except for a
maximum 25-foot wide dock construction area subject to approval by the Florida
Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) or the St. Johns River Water
Management District (SJRWMD), as applicable.
         (d)   Except as permitted by the St. Johns River Water Management
District and/or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the
construction of docks, as permitted in §
154.12, shall not encroach into, remove and/or impact existing wetlands.
         (e)   Except as permitted by the City Engineer, the maximum slope of
any lot for new development and/or redevelopment shall not exceed 4 to 1.
   (F)   Development standards.
       (1)   Lots of record within the Big Lake Mary overlay land use
designation as of the date of the adoption of this section shall comply with
the relevant development standards of the underlying zoning districts,
Chapter 154,
Chapter 155, and/or
Chapter 158.
      (2)   Development of lots created by subdivision and/or waiver of
subdivision after the date of the adoption of this section shall comply with
the following requirements, but shall not apply to lots of record:
         (a)   Maximum density = 1.09 DU/A.
         (b)   Minimum lot area = 40,000 square feet above the mean high water
elevation.
          (c)   Minimum lot width (at front yard setback line) = 125 feet.
          (d)   Minimum lot width (at ROW line) = 35 feet.
          (e)   Minimum building setbacks.
             1.   Front yard setback. The front of any building constructed on
any parcel 200 feet or more in depth from the adopted right-of-way line of Lake
Mary Boulevard shall be set back a minimum of 60 feet. For properties that are
less than 200 feet from the adopted right-of-way line of Lake Mary Boulevard,
the front yard setback shall be 40 feet.
            2.   Side yard setbacks. Eight feet on the narrowest side, with the
combined setbacks equaling 20 feet.
            3.   Side yard setbacks for flag lots = 20 feet.
            4.   Rear yard (residential). Thirty feet from the rear property
line or 75 feet above the mean high water elevation, whichever is greater.
            5.   Rear yard (non- residential). Thirty feet from the rear
property line or 200 feet above the mean high water elevation, whichever is
greater.
         (f)   Maximum building height = 35 feet.
          (g)   Minimum building floor area, excluding carports, garages, porte
cocheres, breezeways and screened or open porches = 1,600 square feet.
         (h)   Development within the 100-year floodplain.
             1.   Not withstanding division (E)(3) above, development within
the 100-Year floodplain is prohibited unless an equal amount of compensating
storage is created.
            2.   Compensating storage shall be created within the 100-Year
floodplain. If it is not feasible to create the required volume in the 100-Year
floodplain, at minimum there shall be a direct connection from the floodplain
compensation area to the floodplain such that the flood waters can move freely
into and out of the compensation area.
         (i)   Additional requirements.
            1.   All uses must conform to
Appendix B of Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
            2.   All development shall comply with the relevant portion of §
154.12; however, in order to construct a dock, the property upon which the dock
is proposed shall extend waterward of the elevation of the mean high water line
and shall have a minimum lot width at the mean high water elevation of 125
feet, as measured perpendicular to the side property line.
            3.   School location, regulations and requirements are found in §
154.68.
(Ord. 1282, passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
§ 154.101 INTENT.
   (A)   In conformance with the City of Lake Mary Comprehensive Plan, Future
Land Use Element, Objective 3, Policy 3.4, Objective 9 and Policy 9.3, the city
establishes the Transfer of Density Rights (TDR) Program. The intent of the TDR
Program is to promote development and redevelopment within the downtown by
allowing for the transfer of unused residential units from city-owned
properties (sending sites) to privately owned properties (receiving sites)
within the downtown.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City Commission from exercising its
legislative authority to change the zoning or land use designation on property
within the corporate limits of the city, including those parcels designated as
sending or receiving sites under the ordinance from which this section derives.
Subsequent rezoning or comprehensive plan changes of a receiving site may
reduce or extinguish transferred development rights.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.102 DENSITY.
   The TDR Program allows a property owner to achieve a density bonus by
purchasing dwelling units from the City of Lake Mary TDR Bank without going
through the land use amendment process. Once a property has donated all or a
portion of its residential units, such dwelling units are no longer available
for development on donating property. Because the donation sites forego their
ability to develop residentially, the density cap within the DDD land use
designation of 18 dwelling units per acre (DU/A) is not exceeded.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.103 RECEIVING SITE.
   All receiving sites shall have a Downtown Development District/ Transit
Oriented Development ( DDD/TOD) land use designation.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.104 TRANSFER OF TDR UNITS.
   As long as the TDR units remain with the receiving site for which they were
originally purchased, ownership of the site may be transferred. Without the
permission of the city, TDR units shall not be transferred from one receiving
site to another receiving site. Unless approved by the City Commission,
modification of the Development Commitment Agreement, outlined in §
154.105, may be required upon transfer of TDR units.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.105 TDR RESERVATION PROCESS.
   The TDR reservation process is as follows:
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a site plan, which complies with the
relevant provisions of
Chapter 155 and/or
Chapter 156 of the City's Code of Ordinances, as applicable, and a developer's
commitment agreement (DCA).
   (B)   The DCA shall state the applicant's intent to develop residential
dwelling units within the downtown, identifying the proposed receiving site(s),
the number of dwelling units to be developed based upon the acreage (i.e. 18
DU/A x # of acres), the number of TDR units to be purchased from the city and
the total number of dwelling units proposed.
   (C)   Staff shall determine that the receiving property has DDD/TOD land use
and that the city's balance of TDR units is sufficient to meet the request of
the applicant.
   (D)   The City Commission shall review the proposed DCA, determine the
number of TDR units to be sold to the applicant and the cost of each TDR unit.
Development rights shall only be sold as whole units, sale of less than a whole
dwelling unit (i.e. .5 DU) is prohibited. The revenues from the sale of TDR
units are not refundable.
   (E)   All DCAs shall be recorded at the applicant's expense and run with the
land.
   (F)   The DCA shall require that construction shall commence within 30
months of the date that the DCA is approved. If construction has not commenced
within 30 months, the DCA shall expire.
   (G)   If construction has commenced within 30 months of the date the DCA was
approved, all work may continue as long as the site construction permit and/or
the building permit(s) have not expired. If either the site construction permit
and/or the building permit(s) expire, the DCA shall be deemed to have expired.
   (H)   If requested in writing prior to the expiration of the DCA, the City
Commission may, at their discretion, approve an extension of the DCA.
   (I)   Unless agreed to by both parties, the approved and recorded DCA shall
not be amended and/or extended.
   (J)   Failure to comply with any of the provisions herein may result in the
city taking appropriate enforcement action.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.106 PAYMENT OF TDR FEES.
   TDR fees shall be paid at the time that a site construction permit is
issued.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
§ 154.107 BALANCE.
   The city shall maintain a current balance of available TDR units via the
City of Lake Mary TDR Bank.
(Ord. 1458, passed 4-5-12)
PAIN MANAGEMENT CLINICS
§ 154.120 PILL MILLS.
   Pill mills are strictly prohibited. For purposes of this section, a “PILL
MILL” is any doctor's office, clinic, or health care facility that routinely
colludes in prescribing and dispensing controlled substances in violation of
federal law or Florida Statutes and regulations; or any pain management clinic,
as defined herein, whatever its title, including but not limited to a "wellness
center," "urgent care facility," or "detox center", that fails to register with
the State of Florida as required by F.S. § 458.3265 or F.S. § 459.0137.
(Ord. 1475, passed 12-20-12)
§ 154.121 MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTER DISPENSING FACILITIES.
   Medical marijuana treatment center (MMTC) dispensing facilities are strictly
prohibited in all zoning districts, pursuant to F.S. 381.986(11). The city will
not accept, process or approve any request or application for a development
order, building permit, or other approval associated with a proposed medical
marijuana treatment center dispensing facility. A “MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT
CENTER DISPENSING FACILITY” is a retail establishment licensed by the Florida
Department of Health as a “medical marijuana treatment facility,” a “medical
marijuana treatment center,” “dispensing organization,” “dispensing
organization facility,” or similar use, that sells, and dispenses “marijuana,”
products containing “marijuana,” or related supplies, to “qualified patients”
or their “caregivers.” All terms used in this section shall be interpreted in
accordance with F.S. § 381.986 and Chapter 64-4 of the Florida Administrative
Code.
(Ord. 1571, passed 9-7-17)
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
§ 154.130 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The business of outdoor advertising is a prohibited land use in all
zoning districts of the city. The "business of outdoor advertising" means the
business of constructing, erecting, operating, using, maintaining, leasing, or
selling outdoor advertising structures, outdoor advertising signs, or outdoor
advertisements.
   (B)   Any existing land use on October 1, 2013 on a parcel where the
business of outdoor advertising is conducted on an outdoor advertising
structure by a person holding a license under F.S. Chapter 479 shall be deemed
a nonconforming land use until the outdoor advertising structure is (a)
removed, (b) discontinued, or (c) destroyed within the meaning of F.S. Chapter
479, or any associated administrative rules defining the term "destroyed" or
"destruction".
(Ord. 1499, passed 12-5-13)
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
§ 154.140 AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNDER THE LIVE LOCAL ACT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish
procedures and regulations for the development of mixed-use affordable housing
developments pursuant to the provisions of F.S, § 166.04151. Any qualifying
development under the Live Local Act shall comply with any land development
regulations and design standards applicable to multi-family in the code or as
set forth herein, whichever is more restrictive. All aspects of the qualifying
development shall be consistent with the city's Comprehensive Plan, except
elements preempted by F.S. § 166.04151.
   (B)   Applicable zoning districts. Unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter, no building or land shall be used, and no building shall be hereafter
erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, pursuant to the provisions of F.S.
§ 166.04151 except in the zoning districts listed below and in accordance with
the standards established herein.
      (1)   C-1 General Commercial.
      (2)   C-2 Commercial District.
      (3)   M-1A Office and Light Industrial.
      (4)   M-2A Industrial District.
   (C)   To not impair previously agreed upon contracts or the Comprehensive
Plan, the Live Local Act shall not be applicable within Planned Unit
Development Districts ("PUD") or any area subject to a development agreement
addressing the zoning or land use of the property.
   (D)   "Commercial, Industrial, or Mixed Use" shall not include any uses
presented as conditional uses in any zoning district.
   (E)   Properties located within the Big Lake Mary overlay zoning district
shall comply with the relevant provisions of §
154.90.
   (F)   Procedures for securing administrative approval of qualifying
developments.
      (1)   This procedure is only available for qualifying developments where:
         (a)   No further action is reguired by the city (i.e., no variance,
conditional use, planned unit development agreement or other approval is
required); and
         (b)   The development satisfies the land development regulations for
multi-family developments and is otherwise consistent with the comprehensive
plan, with the exception of provisions establishing allowable densities, height
and land use, in the manner specified below.
      (2)   The review process will ensure that the qualifying development
satisfies all reguirements of the Act, as well as the comprehensive plan and
code provisions that are not preempted by the Act for a major site plan, and
all other applicable laws. The city will post a policy containing procedures
and expectations for administrative approval on the city website. Further, the
city will post notice of an application on the city's website.
         (a)   Upon application for Site Plan review, the applicant shall agree
as follows:
            1.   To proceed with the qualifying development according to the
provisions established herein and the affordability requirements as established
by state law;
            2.   To provide agreements, contracts, covenants, deed
restrictions, and sureties acceptable to the city for completion of the
development according to the plans approved at the time of site plan approval
and for continuing operations and maintenance of such areas, functions, and
facilities, which are not proposed to be provided, operated, or maintained at
public expense; and
            3.   To bind their successors in title to any commitments made
under the above.
         (b)   First step meeting. The applicant shall schedule a first step
meeting with the Development Review Committee (PRC) prior to any formal
submittals. The following items shall be provided to schedule a first step
meeting:
            1.   Project concept plan signed and sealed by a registered
engineer in the State of Florida. The concept plan shall be a minimum 30%
engineered.
            2.   Project narrative with the following elements:
               a.    Property zoning and future land use designation. The
narrative shall indicate whether the use requested would be reguired by right,
conditionally, or if it would reguire a rezoning and/or future land use
amendment without the provisions of the Live Local Act.
               b.    Project density. The city will comply with the density
requirements set forth in F.S. § 166.04151(7). In the event the proposed
residential density exceeds the density permitted by the city's Comprehensive
Plan, the applicant shall provide an analysis showing the highest currently
allowed density where residential development is permitted. Developments that
have received any bonus, variance, planned unit development zoning or other
conditional use for density are not applicable and shall be excluded from the
analysis.
               c.    Dwelling unit breakdown, including number of bedrooms and
unit sizes.
               d.    Proposed building height. For qualifying development, the
city will comply with the building height requirements set forth in F.S. §
166.04151(7). The applicant must submit a specific purpose survey demonstrating
the one-mile distance for the height determination with a brief analysis of the
comparator site.
               e.    Proposed Floor Area Ratio (FAR). The city will not
consider FAR as the city does not review FAR for any project, only density for
residential projects. A qualified development may not apply the FAR from
nonresidential development to obtain an increase in residential density. The
city does not accept FAR as a basis for residential density for qualified
developments. If applicant requests the FAR bonus provided in the Act, the
applicant must provide an expert analysis demonstrating the project is no
greater than 150% of the highest currently allowed FAR in the city.
Developments that have received any bonus, variance, planned unit development
zoning or other conditional use are not applicable and shall be excluded from
the analysis.
               f.   A table indicating the ratio of residential to non-
residential sguare footage, and a breakdown of affordable, market rate and fee-
simple residential units.
               g.    Identify any Major Transportation Hubs, as defined in F.S.
§ 166.04151, located within a one-half mile of the proposed development and/or
any nearby parking available for the exclusive use of the residents, if
requesting a parking reduction or waiver under F.S. § 166.04151.
               h.    Statement as to how the proposed project conforms to the
city's Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   Site plan submittal.
            1.   In the event a proposed development is deemed a qualifying
development, an application for Site Plan review, all required supplemental
documentation, and all technical review fees may be submitted to the city. Any
fees collected in conjunction with Site Plan review are non-refundable.
            2.   Upon receiving the application package and fee payment, the
city's designated project manager for the development will complete a
sufficiency review within seven business days and notify the applicant within
that time of any insufficient or missing submittal requirements. If the
application package is determined to be sufficient, by satisfying all submittal
requirements, the applicant will be notified of the scheduled development
review committee meeting date.
            3.   The Development Review Committee (PRC) shall review the
application package for compliance with the city's land development code,
comprehensive plan, and applicable state laws, and take the following actions:
               a.    Recommend approval of the site plan including findings
supporting the decision.
               b.   Defer action on recommending approval or denial of the site
plan until the applicant resubmits plans with PRC comments addressed. The
applicant will be notified in writing of comments concerning the submittal.
Required revisions shall be resubmitted by the applicant within 30 days of
receiving comments. Failure of the applicant to submit revised plans as
required above shall result in cancellation of the application unless an
extension is agreed upon by the Mayor and City Commission at a public hearing.
               c.    Recommend denial of the site plan including findings
supporting the decision.
            4.   Upon receiving a recommendation by the PRC, the applicant
shall submit the application package to the Administrative Official. In making
a determination, the Administrative Official must find:
               a.    That the proposed development is compliant with the city's
land development regulations and is compatible with the city's comprehensive
plan, with the exception of provisions in F.S § 166.04151; and
               b.    That the development has demonstrated its commitment to
eguity through providing affordable housing and that the affordable housing
units offer a guality of life enjoyed by all residents in the city.
         5.   The Administrative Official may impose any conditions or
limitations upon the establishment, permissible uses, location, construction,
maintenance, or operation of the development which in its judgment may
reasonably be necessary to ensure compatibility and prevent the development
from becoming detrimental to other permitted land uses, to promote the public
interest, and protect the health, safety, and welfare of all. Conditions,
limitations, and requirements mitigating any adverse impacts from the proposed
development will be stated as part of the approval and shall be a continuing
obligation of the property owners. Such mitigation may include, without
limitation, screening or buffering, landscaping, limitations on manner, scope,
and extent of operation(s), changes in proposed construction, location or
design of buildings, relocation of proposed open space or alteration of use of
such space, changes in traffic circulation or signalization, and any other
matter reasonably calculated to address potential impacts to adjacent
developments and the surrounding neighborhood.
               a.   If approved by the Administrative Official, the
Administrative Official shall issue a written "approval letter" and the
applicant shall apply for site construction and building permit review and
commence construction within one year (365 days) from the date of approval.
               b.   The decision by the Administrative Official may be appealed
to the Planning and Zoning Board pursuant to §
154.25(C) within 30 days of the rendering of a decision by the Administrative
Official.
               c.    Modification to approved site plan. Following approval, if
substantial changes are made to the design of the project, including but not
limited to, an increase in density, building height, massing, architectural
design, or amenities, the modifications shall be approved by the Administrative
Official.
               d.   If the proposed project does not meet the city's land
development code (except for use, height or density as preempted by the Act),
the applicant may apply for a variance or other pertinent procedure and shall
follow the procedures provided in the code, including review by the Development
Review Committee, Planning and Zoning Board, and City Commission.
               e.    Denial of an application precludes the applicant from
refiling the same application for 12 months from the date of denial.
            6.   Affordability commitment.
               a.   A property that includes affordable housing built under the
preemptive regulations in the Live Local Act (2023) must manifest compliance
with F.S. § 166.04151's mandate of providing a minimum of 40% affordable
housing for 30 years by recording a restrictive covenant on the property to
that effect. If the development does not comply with the Act for 30 years, then
the city will consider the affordable housing units nonconforming uses, and
subject to §
154.10 of the land development code. The covenant will detail income mix and
required affordability, with a release provision ensuring that the covenant is
in place for 30 years from certificate of occupancy and may only be released
earlier by bringing the project into full compliance with all zoning and land
use provisions applicable to the site at the time of the release. The property
owner must provide to the city each year on January 15, copies of all leases
then in effect for the affordable units, together with such other documentation
necessary to demonstrate that the leases meet the affordability criteria set
forth in F.S. § 420.0004, and confirm that the occupants of the affordable
units meet the requirements of the income standards. The city has the right to
audit the evidence of compliance with F.S. § 420.0004 at any time when
warranted.
               b.   The city will enforce the restrictive covenant. After a
property is no longer qualified as affordable housing due to violation of the
restrictive covenant, the city shall assess a daily fine of $300.00 per day and
may impose additional regulations on the development, at the City Commission's
discretion at a public hearing, to include stricter design standards,
landscaping, upgraded amenities, and other regulations designed to protect the
area and ensure compatibility of nearby uses. The daily fine and additional
regulations will cease once proof of compliance has been provided to the city.
               c.   If construction has not begun on the affordable housing
project within six-months of the issuance of the building permit, then the
property will be governed by the entitlements allowed under the property's
zoning without the benefit of the preemptive provisions of F.S. § 166.04151.
            7.   Site development standards.
               a.   All land included for the purposes of a qualifying
development, including all residential and nonresidential components, shall be
under unified control. All agreements and evidence of unified control shall be
reviewed by the city attorney and no site plan for a qualifying development
shall be approved without verification by the city attorney that such
agreements and evidence of unified control meet the requirements of this
section.
               b.    Required residential and nonresidential uses. Qualifying
developments must locate all non-residential uses on the same (or unified)
plot.
                  A.    Sixty-five percent (65 %) of the total square footage
of a qualifying development shall be used for residential purposes. Lobby,
service areas, and amenity areas exclusively for residential uses shall be
considered residential square footage.
                  B.    Thirty-five percent (35 %) of the total square footage
of a qualifying development shall be used for nonresidential purposes.
Nonresidential uses shall be limited to those uses permitted in the zoning
district regulations applicable to the land on which the project is located.
                  C.    Equivalency of affordable dwelling units.
                     (i)   Affordable dwelling units and market rate units
within a qualifying development shall be located within the same structures or
shall be proportionality distributed between multiple structures, if more than
one structure is proposed, such that each structure contains both affordable
and market rate units in equal proportions.
                     (ii)   Affordable dwelling units and market rate units
shall be proportionately distributed between multiple floors for structures
within a qualifying development greater than two floors, such that each floor
contains both affordable and market rate units in equal proportions.
                     (iii)   All common areas and amenities within a qualifying
development shall be equally accessible and available to all residents (both
affordable and market rate units).
                     (iv)   Parking for affordable dwelling units shall be
provided in the same manner, with the same level of convenience and proximity
as parking for market rate units.
                     (v)   Access to the required affordable dwelling units in
a qualifying development shall be provided in the same manner as the access to
market rate dwelling units. Access shall include shared principal entrance(s)
with the same elevators or stairwells, and independent entrances to each unit
typical of townhomes.
                     (vi)   The sizes and number of bedrooms in the affordable
dwelling units shall be approximately proportional to the sizes and number of
bedrooms in the market rate units (e.g. for number of bedrooms, if 25% of the
market rate units consist of two bedrooms, then 25% of the affordable units
shall also have two bedrooms, etc., maintaining a proportional distribution
across unit types within the gualifying development). For purposes of this
division, "approximately proportional" shall mean that the percentage of each
type of unit among the affordable dwelling units shall be within five
percentage points of each type of unit among the market rate dwelling units.
                     (vii)   The exterior appearance of affordable units shall
be the same as the market rate units and shall provide exterior building
materials and finishes of the same type and quality.
                     (viii)   The interior building materials and finishes of
the affordable units shall be the same type and guality as the market rate
units, including but not limited to all electrical and plumbing fixtures,
flooring, cabinetry, countertops, and decorative finishes. Alternative building
materials and finishes may be considered for approval within the affordable
units to reduce energy costs and water consumption.
            8.   In addition to the provisions set forth in this section,
qualifying developments must also comply with all other land development
regulations applicable to multi-family developments, including §
154.59.
            9.   Fee simple development standards.
               a.   For fee simple one- and two-family developments, refer to
the development standards contained in §
154.58.
               b.   All fee simple developments are subject to the relevant
provisions of
Chapter 157 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
               c.   The following development standards are applicable to each
lot in all fee simple single family developments with three or more attached
units:
                  A.    Minimum lot width, 21 feet.
                  B.    Minimum lot area, 2,400 square feet.
                  C.    Minimum internal side yard setback, 0 feet.
                  D.    Minimum dwelling unit size, 1,600 square feet.
            10.   Additional requirements.
               a.    Maximum site size (above mean high-water-line), one acre.
               b.    Maximum density, with respect to the residential component
of a qualifying development, the highest allowed density on any land in the
city where residential development is allowed by right. Developments that have
received any bonus, variance, or other conditional use for density are to be
excluded.
               c.    Maximum height, equivalent to the highest currently
constructed building within a one-mile radius of the project or three stories,
whichever is higher. Developments that have received any bonus, variance, or
other conditional use for height are to be excluded. If the development is
adjacent to, on two or more sides, a parcel with single-family residential use
with at least 25 single-family homes, the maximum height is equivalent to 150%
the height of the tallest building adjacent to the proposed development, the
height permitted by the zoning district, or three stories, whichever is
highest.
               d.    Minimum street frontage, 50 feet.
               e.    Minimum building setbacks. The building setbacks for R-
3 zoning applies for buildings 35 feet or less when the qualifying development
is not adjacent to single-family residential zoning or use. An additional
setback of one foot for every one foot of height shall be provided for
buildings that exceed 35 feet or are adjacent to single family residential
zoning or use.
               f.    Minimum unit size. One-bedroom must be larger than 750
square feet; two-bedroom must be larger than 1,000 square feet; three or more
bedrooms must be larger than 1,350 square feet.
               g.    Mobility standards.
                  A.    All uses must conform to
Appendix B of Chapter 155 for off-street parking and other regulations.
Additional parking requirements for the residential portion of a qualifying
development are as follows:
                     (i)   Guest parking shall be provided at 0.25 spaces per
dwelling unit and cannot be located in a remote or off-site lot.
                     (ii)   One additional parking space shall be provided for
each employee, maintenance/service worker, construction contractor or security
guard and cannot be located in a remote or off-site lot.
                     (iii)   Parking of any recreational vehicles, trailers,
and the like, is prohibited.
                  B.    Parking requirements may be reduced by 20% subject to
meeting all of the following:
                     (i)   The qualifying development is located within one-
half mile of a major transportation hub.
                     (ii)   The major transportation hub is accessible from the
development by existing or proposed minimum eight-foot-wide public sidewalks or
mixed-use path, consisting of a minimum of 35% shaded areas or where the shade
requirement can be obtained within three years of the development receiving a
Certificate of Occupancy.
                     (iii)   The qualifying development will provide onsite and
offsite enhancements to public sidewalks to support walkability and pedestrian
comfort, including, but not limited to: incorporating canopy trees: distinctive
pavement; identity, wayfinding, and directional signage; transit
infrastructure; and shaded rest areas or nodes with appropriate site
furnishings.
                     (iv)   The parking reduction is supported by a parking
demand study prepared by a qualified expert. The parking demand study must
include data obtained from a minimum of three similar local multi-family
developments within the ECFRPC boundaries in accordance with the guidelines set
forth by the Institute of Transportation Engineers Publication, Parking
Generation. The study should also evaluate any nearby parking which is
available for exclusive use by the residents.
                     (v)   Parking is available within 600 feet of the proposed
development which may consist of options such as on-street parking, parking
lots, or parking garages available for use by residents of the proposed
development. When off-site parking is relied on to meet parking requirements
for the proposed development, the donating site will be reviewed to ensure that
the donating site will remain a conforming lot.
                  C.    Parking requirements will be eliminated for mixed-use
residential qualifying developments which comply with all the city codes except
those applicable to use, height, density, floor area ratio and parking, where
the property is designated as transit oriented development in the city's
Comprehensive Plan.
                  D.    The affordable units shall be provided with a monthly
commuter rail pass for the 30-year affordable requirement. One pass shall be
provided for units with two bedrooms or less, and two passes shall be provided
for units with three bedrooms or more.
                  E.    Bicycle lockers shall be provided on site to
accommodate a minimum of one bicycle per affordable housing unit with two
bedrooms or less and two bicycles for units with three bedrooms or more.
                  F.    There shall be an interconnected sidewalk network
consisting of minimum-eiqht-foot-wide sidewalks to maximize connectivity to
existing facilities; transit, including the SunRail Station; and neighboring
land uses.
                  G.    All required parking spaces for residential uses within
a qualifying development, including parking for guests and employees, shall be
fully enclosed, located internal to a parking garage or integrated into the
building containing the residential units served by that parking, and
designated for residential or guest use only. Guest parking to be located on-
street internal to the development or in an off-street parking lot may be
considered to meet the guest parking requirements based on the internalization
of uses or sharing of parking; the determination will be based on the findings
of a parking study prepared by a qualified expert.
                  H.    A minimum of one electric vehicle charging station must
be provided for a development requiring more than 50 parking spaces. The
charging station shall serve two parking spaces.
                  I.    One designated parking space for every 50 residential
units shall be provided for rideshare pickup.
                  J.    A Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan to reduce
the projected traffic demand by 20%, through strategies including, but not
limited to: pedestrian-oriented design elements, bicycle facilities, transit
improvements, operational programs, and incentives. An applicant shall include
a Transportation Demand Management Plan with the following elements:
                     (i)   Project Information and Site Inventory.
                     (ii)   Travel Demand Estimate.
                     (iii)   TDM Strategies and Objectives.
                     (iv)   Travel Demand Accommodations.
                     (v)   Implementation Timeframe.
                     (vi)   Commitment Statement.
                     (vii)   Verification Statement.
            11.    Landscaping and open space.
               a.   The maximum impervious surface ratio for a qualifying
development is 65%.
               b.   No less than 35% of the project land area shall be
designated for open space.
               c.    Enhanced landscaping to include a minimum-ten-foot-wide
planting area for building foundation landscaping, with a minimum of two
understory trees and five shrubs for every 40 feet of facade length. The
remainder of the planting area shall be landscaped with groundcover or other
landscape treatment. A minimum-ten-foot-wide landscape strip is required where
four or more rows of parking spaces abut; one canopy tree, one understory tree
and three shrubs must be planted for every 100 feet in length.
               d.    Property buffer widths shall be subject to the relevant
provisions of
Chapter 157 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances, unless otherwise
provided herein. In no case shall the minimum average buffer width be less than
ten feet.
                  A.    Qualifying developments located on land zoned
industrial and adjacent to land with industrial zoning or use must apply
landscape buffers as if the qualifying development structures were on a
separate site, to ensure compatibility between the mixed-use residential
project and neighboring industrial uses. A type 'C' buffer per §
157.04(F)(3) shall be provided for buildings up to 45 feet in height. If the
building exceeds 45 feet in height, then the buffer shall increase an
additional one foot for every one foot of height which exceeds 45 feet.
                  B.    Qualifying developments located on land zoned
commercial and adjacent to land with commercial zoning or use must apply
landscape buffers as if the qualifying development structures were on a
separate site, to ensure compatibility between the mixed-use residential
project and neighboring commercial uses. A type 'B' buffer per §
157.04(F)(2) shall be provided for buildings up to 30 feet in height. If the
building exceeds 30 feet in height, then the buffer shall increase an
additional one foot for every one foot of height which exceeds 30 feet.
                  C.    Buffering materials shall ensure that headlights of
vehicles, noise, and light from structures are adequately shielded from public
view, adjacent properties, and pedestrian areas.
               e.    Common open space shall be provided within the project in
the amount equivalent to 250 square feet per dwelling unit to create a network
of miniparks and/or greenbelts. Any single open space area shall be a minimum
of 2,000 square feet for use as passive or active space. Any native plant
species in a passive open space area shall be preserved unless dead, dying, or
diseased.
               f.    Retention and detention pond configuration shall be
designed to emulate nature and incorporated into the natural topography of the
site. Trees and plantings shall be clustered and planted in a natural pattern
around the pond.
            12.   Lakefront regulations and requirements are included in §
154.12.
            13.   School location, regulations and requirements are included in
§
154.68.
            14.   When there is a conflict between provisions contained in this
section and other provisions contained in this code, the provision that is more
restrictive and imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern.
            15.   The first floor of each building must be nonresidential and
all floors must be built out in one phase. The nonresidential use must have a
certificate of occupancy before the residential use is given a certificate of
occupancy.
            16.   At least two uses are required in each multi-family building,
both residential and high end commercial or class-A office. Home-based
businesses or institutional uses are not appropriate second uses, "HIGH END
COMMERCIAL" means specialty retail stores focusing on certain categories of
goods, "CLASS-A OFFICE" means premier office space with high quality finishes,
amenities, and technology systems. The following are permitted nonresidential
uses for qualifying developments:
               A.    Retail sales establishments, such as bakeries, florists,
gift shops, bookstores, clothing stores, shoe stores, and other similar
boutique businesses to support the residential use except for outdoor sales and
flea markets.
               B.    Professional offices offering consulting services, such as
architects, attorneys, engineers, accountants, doctors, dentists, and the like.
               C.   Real estate offices.
               D.    General office uses.
               E.   High technology office uses, such as research and
development laboratories, space technology, simulation and training, laser
technology, robotics, computer software and hardware, medical labs, and
testing.
               F.    Business and professional services office uses.
            17.   The first floor of each multi-family building must be
constructed of concrete.
            18.   Amenities required:
               a.   Each unit must have an in-unit washer/dryer.
               b.   Each unit must have an independent balcony. All balconies
shall be a minimum of 54 square feet of clear, unobstructed space, at least six
feet in depth. Balconies may be covered and screened but cannot be fully
enclosed. False, Faux, Juliet/Juliette, Balconette, and other similar
ornamental or standing-type balconies shall not be considered a balcony and are
prohibited where a balcony is referenced in this section.
               c.   Pool with restrooms.
               d.    Splashpad.
               e.    Gymnasium.
               f.    Playground space.
               g.    Pickleball / tennis court or similar active recreation
facility.
               h.    Doggy runs (if pets are allowed).
               i.    Internal concierge trash service.
               j.   Flex office space.
               k.    Recycling service to reduce the amount of waste sent to
the landfill.
            19.   Enhanced architectural standards are required to be
integrated into the building form to break up large building mass and long
walls. Architectural features shall be displayed on all sides of a building,
incorporating a base, middle and top to maintain pedestrian scale. The building
mass shall be proportionate to the site, streets, open space, and surrounding
developments.
               a.    Buildings shall include architectural elements on all
facades and every story. Architectural elements shall include, but not be
limited to, porticos, balconies, columns, awnings, canopies, recessed/projected
access.
               b.    Integrated ornamental and structural building
articulation, including projections and recesses with a minimum depth of 24
inches.
               c.    Varied roof line and form, stepped or decorative parapets,
cornices and eaves, and belt courses must be utilized in the building design.
               d.    Building facades shall have a minimum of 30% fenestration
elements (windows, doors and openings). Windows and doors shall include
surrounds, casing or headers.
               e.    Building materials and finishes shall be consistent on all
facades and every story. High quality materials and finishes, such as brick,
stone, vertical board or batten siding, shall be used; stucco finish is only
acceptable for a maximum of 40% of the building facades; EIFIS shall not be
used as a primary material. Prohibited materials include unfinished concrete or
block, corrugated fiberglass or metal, sheet or tin siding.
            f.   Building colors shall be subtle and harmonious with the
overall project, landscaping, and nearby developments. Bright or brilliant
colors shall be used for accent only.
            g.   Light fixtures shall be consistent throughout the development
and shall complement the building architecture. Light fixtures shall be
decorative with concealed light sources, and light poles shall have fluted
bases. The use of illuminated bollards in lieu of poles is encouraged in
exclusively pedestrian areas.
            h.   Accessory structures not designed or incorporated as part of
the principal building or as part of the amenities listed in this section are
prohibited,
            i.   All mechanical equipment and utility hardware and
appurtenances on roofs, ground or buildings shall be screened from public view
with materials harmonious with the building, and shall be located so as not to
be visible from streets, open space, service alleys, and adjoining properties.
Screening shall be of such material and color so that it matches or blends with
the roof or portion above the top floor where it is installed. Screening shall
be greater than the height of the mechanical equipment. All rooftops of
buildings with flat roof decks, including parking garage roof decks, shall be
designed to minimize negative appearances by screening mechanical equipment and
utility hardware and appurtenances, and by minimizing the ponding of stormwater
through use of drains and scuppers.
            20.   Elements utilized to satisfy amenities required within multi-
family developments listed in this section shall not be credited as satisfying
other design requirements or standards.
      (11)   This section of the Code will expire on October 1, 2033, the
expiration date of the Live Local Act, F.S. § 166.04151.
(Ord. 1685, passed 6-29-23; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 6-20-24)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation which is
issued a city occupational license under the terms of
Chapter 111 and
Chapter 154 of the city code to violate any requirement of
Chapter 154 or to violate any of the terms of the occupational license.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99, and/or revocation of the city occupational license, and/or all other
Code Enforcement Board procedures available to the city, including but not
limited to, injunctive relief through the court.
   (C)   Upon finding a violation of this chapter or the requirements of an
occupational license, the City Commission may revoke or place conditions on an
occupational license issued under this chapter. No license may be revoked
except after notice to the license holder and a public hearing before the City
Commission if such a hearing is requested by the license holder.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 718, passed 10-6-94)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Purpose and intent of chapter
   
155.02   Applicability
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Amendments
   
155.05   Flag lots
Procedures for Securing Approval of Subdivision Plans
   
155.10   Intent
   
155.11   Procedural outline
   
155.12   Review of preliminary subdivision plan
   
155.13   Review of final subdivision plan and plat
   
155.14   Minor subdivision approval
   
155.15   Recording of final plat
Required Submittals
   
155.20   Purpose
   
155.21   Required submittals for preliminary plan
   
155.22   Required submittals for final plat
   
155.23   Surety for improvements
Improvements
   
155.30   General
   
155.31   Monuments
   
155.32   Potable water supply
   
155.33   Sanitary wastewater
Vacating of Plats, Replats, and Correction of Errors
   
155.40   Vacating of plats
   
155.41   Replats and resubdivision
   
155.42   Corrective plats
   
155.43   Vacating of rights-of-way and easements
   
155.44   Time limit
Legal Status
   
155.50   Interpretation
   
155.51   False representations
   
155.52   Effective date
Forms of Agreement and Letter of Credit
   
155.61   Cash escrow agreement
   
155.62   Developer's cash escrow agreement
   
155.63   Irrevocable letter of credit
   
155.64   [Reserved.]
   
155.65   Subdivision improvements performance surety bond
   
155.66   Subdivision improvements maintenance surety bond
   
155.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Street system regulations
   
Appendix B:   Off-street parking, loading, and unloading
   
Appendix C:   Stormwater management regulations
   
Appendix D:   Public utilities
   
Appendix E:   Fire prevention regulations
   
Appendix F:   Borrow pits
   
Appendix G:   Swimming pool regulations
   
Appendix H:   Vested rights
   
Appendix I:   Sign Code
   
Appendix J:   Transportation guidelines
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement of requirements, see §
154.07
   General provisions applying throughout land development code, see §§
154.01 through 154.06
   Variances, see §
154.06(A)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The public health, safety, comfort, and welfare require that the
development of land be conducted in a harmonious, orderly, and progressive
fashion within the corporate limits of the city. Once the subdivision of land
has been shaped into building lots, blocks, and streets, the correction of
defects is costly and difficult. Substantial public responsibility is created
by each new subdivision, involving the maintenance of streets and drainage
facilities, and the provision of additional public services. As the general
welfare, health, safety, and convenience of the community are thereby directly
affected by the use of land as a subdivision, it is in the direct interest of
the public that subdivisions be conceived, designed, and developed in
accordance with sound rules and proper minimum standards. Consideration shall
be given to the character of an area and the availability of public facilities
to ensure the compatibility and coordination of land uses and facilities within
a given geographic unit.
   (B)   The purpose and intent, therefore, of this chapter is to serve as one
of the several instruments of land use control authorized by the state
legislature for the city, and to secure:
      (1)   The establishment of standards of subdivision design which will
encourage the development of sound and stable areas within the corporate limits
of the city.
      (2)   Installation to prescribed standards by the land developer of those
required improvements which ought not become a charge on the citizens and
taxpayers of already existing areas.
      (3)   The adequate and efficient supply of utilities, streets, and
services to new land developments.
      (4)   The prevention of haphazard, premature, or scattered land
development.
      (5)   The prevention of traffic hazards and congestion which result from
narrow or poorly aligned streets, and from excessive ingress and egress points
along major traffic arteries; and the provision of safe and convenient traffic
circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land development.
      (6)   Safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, to promote health and
the general welfare.
      (7)   Protection from flooding hazards, and to ensure proper water
management.
      (8)   The provision of public open spaces in new land developments
through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational,
and other public purposes.
      (9)   Coordination of land development in accordance with orderly
physical patterns and general plans and policies adopted by the City
Commission, in particular the city comprehensive land use plan.
      (10)   Protection of the natural and scenic resources of the city,
including surface waters and groundwater recharge areas.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter or applicable to the division of a
parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels of land for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
and include all cases where:
      (1)   The subdivider advocates, proposes, suggests, or exhibits a
proposed plan, map, or plat of development of land; or
      (2)   The subdivider proposes to create a street, right-of-way, or
easement that joins or connects to an existing public street.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to have the effect of repealing
any existing ordinance concerning the subject matter of this chapter, but the
regulations established herein shall be supplemental and cumulative. However,
in the case of a direct conflict with a provision or provisions of any existing
ordinance, the provision which is more restrictive and imposes higher standards
or requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Plats may also be filed for streets, right-of-way, or easements. All
plats filed shall meet all requirements, as set forth in this chapter, and
follow the procedures as herein set forth.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
Editor' s note:
   The definitions contained in §
154.09 are also applicable to this chapter.
§ 155.04 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended by the City Commission; however, no
amendments shall become effective until a public hearing has been held. Public
notice regarding the time, place, and date of the hearing shall be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 15 days prior to the
hearing.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.05 FLAG LOTS.
   (A)   Flag lots, also known as pot handle lots, are lots so designated which
typically have the minimum required street frontage and typically do not have
the required minimum lot width at the building setback line (25 feet from the
right-of-way line). The buildable area of a flag lot is situated behind lots
having more than the minimum required street frontage and is accessible by
means of a narrow drive or entryway.
   (B)   Setbacks for flag lots. Side yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 20
feet each. A plot plan shall designate the front and rear yards as a condition
for building permit approval for a flag lot.
(Ord. 428, passed 5-18-89)
PROCEDURES FOR SECURING APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLANS
§ 155.10 INTENT.
   It shall be the intent of the city that there be an orderly process for
approval of all subdivision plats in the city. This process is intended to
permit full and adequate review by the city in order to insure and protect the
public interest. This process will also benefit the subdivider by pinpointing
potential problems within the development and offering solutions to alleviating
those problems.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.11 PROCEDURAL OUTLINE.
   The following is a general itemized outline of the basic steps required in
obtaining approval for subdivision plans. For further details and
specifications, refer to §§
155.12 through
155.15.
   (A)   Preliminary subdivision plan.
      (1)   The application and all required submittals shall be filed with the
city.
      (2)   All submittals shall be as required by §
155.21.
      (3)   Fees for the preliminary subdivision plan review must be paid to
the city at the time the submittal is made.
      (4)   Each preliminary subdivision plan shall be subjected to a standard
review process including testing for concurrency of public facilities as
detailed in Ch. 161 of the City of Lake Mary Land Development Regulations.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review and act upon the
materials as submitted.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend approval, approval
with conditions or disapproval of the preliminary subdivision plan.
         (c)   After review by the Planning and Zoning Board, the preliminary
subdivision plan shall be scheduled for review and action by the City
Commission.
         (d)   The City Commission shall approve, approve with conditions or
disapprove the preliminary subdivision plan.
   (B)   Final subdivision plan.
      (1)   The application and all required submittals shall be filed with the
city.
      (2)   All submittals shall comply with §
155.22.
      (3)   Fees for the final subdivision plan review must be paid to the city
at the time the submittal is made.
      (4)   All final subdivision plans shall be subjected to a standard review
process including testing for concurrency of public facilities as detailed in
Ch. 161 of the City of Lake Mary Land Development Regulations.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the final subdivision plan.
         (b)   Application for final subdivision plan must be submitted to the
city within six months after approval of the preliminary subdivision plan.
         (c)   Any person or persons jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
action of the Planning and Zoning Board, may, within 30 days after the action
of the Planning and Zoning Board, but not thereafter, appeal to the City
Commission for relief.
         (d)   An appeal to the City Commission shall stop all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed. The City Commission shall hear appeals
within 60 days of the filing of the appeal and promptly render a final decision
and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest; and decide the same in a reasonable time. All parties aggrieved by
the final decision of the City Commission may appeal within 30 days of the
rendition of the decision to the circuit court of Seminole County.
   (C)   Final subdivision plat.
      (1)   The application and all required submittals shall be filed with the
city.
      (2)   All submittals shall comply with all relevant provisions of the
City of Lake Mary Land Development Code and Florida Statutes.
      (3)   Fees for the final subdivision plat review must be paid to the City
at the time the submittal is made.
      (4)   Each final subdivision plat shall be subjected to a standard review
process including testing for concurrency of public facilities as detailed in
Chapter 161 of the City of Lake Mary Land Development Regulations.
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall act upon the materials as
submitted.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend approval, approval
with conditions or disapproval of the preliminary subdivision plan.
         (c)   After review by the Planning and Zoning Board, the final
subdivision plat shall be scheduled for review and action by the City
Commission.
         (d)   The City Commission shall then approve, approve with conditions
or disapprove the final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 598, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 5-15-03)
§ 155.12 REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary subdivision plan is to provide
complete and accurate presentation of technical data and preliminary
engineering drawings in a manner as to allow complete review and evaluation of
the proposed development and its impact upon both the site and the surrounding
areas.
   (B)   Initiation point. All copies of submittals must be made to the city.
   (C)   Submittals. All submittals shall be as required by §
155.21.
   (D)   Fees. All fees for preliminary subdivision plan review, as adopted
from time to time by resolution of the City Commission, must be paid to the
city at the time the submittal is made.
   (E)   Review process. Each preliminary subdivision plan shall be subjected
to a standard review process as outlined below:
      (1)   Following review of the preliminary plan and other material
submitted for conformity to the comprehensive plan and this chapter, and
negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvements to be made by him, the City Commission shall act on the
materials as submitted or modified. The City Commission shall approve,
disapprove, or approve with conditions the subdivision plan.
      (2)   Approval or conditional approval of a preliminary subdivision plan
shall not constitute approval of the final subdivision plan or plat. Rather, it
shall be deemed an expression of approval as to the layout submitted on the
preliminary plan. The final subdivision plan must substantially adhere to the
layout in the preliminary subdivision plan.
      (3)   Any variances to
Chapter 155 and its appendices are subject to the review process outlined in §
154.06(A)(1)-(5).
   (F)   Time limit on approval. A final subdivision plan shall be submitted
within six months after the preliminary subdivision plan approval.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 598, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 5-15-03)
§ 155.13 REVIEW OF FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAN AND PLAT.
   (A)   Final Subdivision Plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the final subdivision plan is to insure the
review and approval of the final technical submittals and engineering drawings.
      (2)   Initiation point. All submittals must be made to the city within
six months of approval of the preliminary subdivision plan.
      (3)   Submittals. All submittals shall be as required by §
155.22 and the relevant sections of the Florida Statutes.
      (4)   Fees. Fees for the final subdivision plan application, as adopted
from time to time by resolution of the City Commission, must be paid to the
city at the time the submittal is made.
      (5)   Review process. All final subdivision plans shall be subject to a
standard review process as outlined below:
         (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall approve, approve with
conditions, or disapprove the final subdivision plan. Appeals of Planning and
Zoning Board decisions shall be in accordance with §
155.11(B)(4)(c) and (d).
         (b)   The final subdivision plan shall be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Board within six months after approval of the preliminary
subdivision plan; otherwise, the preliminary plan approval shall become null
and void, unless an extension is applied for prior to the expiration of the six
months and granted by the City Commission.
         (c)   Variances to
Ch. 155 and its appendices are allowed only as part of the preliminary
subdivision plan review.
   (B)   Final Subdivision Plat.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the final subdivision plat is to ensure the
preparation, completion and recording of the final plat map and its
accompanying legal documents.
      (2)   Initiation point. All submittals must be made to the city within
six months of approval of the final subdivision plan.
      (3)   Submittals. All submittals shall be in compliance with the City of
Lake Mary Land Development Code and the relevant sections of the Florida
Statutes.
      (4)   Fees. Fees for the final subdivision plat application, as adopted
from time to time by resolution of the City Commission, must be paid to the
city at the time the submittal is made.
      (5)   Review process. All final subdivision plats shall be subject to a
standard review process as outlined below:
         (a)   The City Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the final subdivision plat.
         (b)   The final subdivision plat shall be submitted to the City within
six months after approval of the final subdivision plan; otherwise, all
construction shall cease until the proposed final plat has been submitted.
         (c)   Variances to
Ch. 155 and its appendices are allowed only as part of the preliminary
subdivision plan review.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 598, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 5-15-03)
§ 155.14 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Preliminary subdivision, final subdivision, and final subdivision plat
approval shall be required for the subdivision or reconfiguration of property
boundaries where sufficient right-of-way width; adequate paved public road
frontage for each proposed lot; lot size; adequate water, sewer, and drainage
facilities; and infrastructure or concurrency issues are not adequately
addressed. The City Engineer may defer infrastructure issues to the individual
site plan stage for non-single-family-residential projects, if he/she finds
that determination and provision of the needed infrastructure can most
reasonably be accomplished when the applicant has specifications for the
particular lot or lots. In this situation, to create as many as four lots, only
a final subdivision plat is required.
   (B)   A final subdivision plat, consistent with the requirements of Chapter
177, Florida Statutes, must be submitted, reviewed, fully executed, approved,
and recorded to subdivide or reconfigure, into four or fewer lots, any existing
lot(s) or parcel(s), except through the following subdivision waiver
requirements:
      (1)   Waiver criteria. Parcels of record or lots of record, which were
created either prior to February 20,1975 (the adoption date of the original
Lake Mary subdivision regulations by Ordinance No. 24) or through a final
subdivision plat, may be subdivided into four lots, through the application for
a waiver of the subdivision platting requirements set forth in this chapter.
This waiver may also be used to combine or reconfigure as many as four existing
legally created parcels or lots, where the total number of parcels or lots is
not increased, and all of the proposed new parcels or lots meet all applicable
requirements set forth in the City Code of Ordinances. The City Manager or his/
her designee may approve such a waiver if and only if all of the following
criteria are met. There shall be no exceptions or variances.
         (a)   The subdivision of the property will not create more than four
parcels or lots; or the combination or recombination of portions of not more
than four previously created parcels or lots where the total number of parcels
or lots is not increased; and the resultant parcels or lots each meet the
minimum standards set forth in the City Code of Ordinances for the applicable
zoning, Future Land Use designation or other applicable standard; and
         (b)   Each proposed parcel or lot must meet or exceed the minimum lot
size of the designated zoning category, future land use designation, overlay
district or other applicable standard; and
         (c)   Each lot must have frontage as required by the zoning district
on a paved road or a road with cold mix paving with a right-of-way consistent
with
Chapter 155, Appendix A, of this code. Cold mix paved roads shall have been
paved by the city and shall not have been paved prior to 1999; and
         (d)   For septic systems to be utilized (where a sewer system is not
available), each lot must contain at least the minimum area and dimensions
required from the Seminole County Health Department for the soils present on-
site (applicant shall provide documentation of Health Department requirements
as part of the application for lot split waiver); and
         (e)   The new subdivision or reconfiguration does not create or vacate
any portion of a road, street, alley, or other right-of-way, or easement, or
require the establishment of a frontage or service road. Properties required to
dedicate a conservation easement per
Chapter 160 may utilize the provisions of this section as long as the easement
is conveyed to the city prior to recording the subdivision of property and/or
the reconfiguration of existing lots; and
         (f)   Off-site extension, relocation, or upgrade, or other provision
of water, sewer, drainage or other infrastructure is not required (except as
set forth in subsection (A) above): and
         (g)   The proposed subdivision or reconfiguration does not create any
flag lots, as defined in this chapter; and
         (h)   The proposed subdivision or reconfiguration complies with
applicable concurrency requirements; and
         (i)   No other infrastructure improvements are deemed necessary by the
Development Review Committee to protect public health and safety.
      (2)   Waiver review procedures.
         (a)   Submittal. The application and supporting waiver information, as
identified in this section, shall be submitted to the Community Development
Department.
         (b)   Waiver information. The following information must be submitted
to the Community Development Department for review. Any incomplete application
package will not be processed or reviewed; it must be picked up by the
applicant within one week of being notified that the application is
substantially incomplete. The city assumes no liability for maintaining or
storing an incomplete application package.
            1.   Application and fees. The applicant shall submit an
application with the required fees.
            2.   Development plan. Sixteen signed and sealed copies of the
development plan, drawn to a reasonable scale, prepared by a Florida-licensed
land surveyor, and depicting the following:
               a.   Legend.
                  (i)    Name and address of the applicant and property owner;
                  (ii)    Legal description and address of the property;
                  (iii)    Scale of the drawing;
                  (iv)    Total acreage to be divided, combined or recombined;
                  (v)    Existing number of parcels or lots;
                  (vi)    Proposed number of lots; and
                  (vii)    Current zoning and future land use designation.
               b.   Location map. A map depicting the relationship between the
property proposed for development and surrounding public roads and public
facilities.
               c.   Rights-of-way and easements. The name, location, and right-
of-way width of all existing streets, roads, other rights-of-way, or easements
that abut the proposed development, and the location of existing driveways and
median openings in the vicinity. Easements shall be adequately described in
terms of location, type, and the party or parties to whom each of the easements
is granted. Copies of the easement documents may be required by the Community
Development Department.
               d.   Lots. Lot layout depicting the location, dimensions, and
area of each parcel to be created. If existing structures or other notable
features exist, the location of these may be required, as pertinent, by the
Development Review Committee.
            3.   Application for concurrency review. The applicant shall submit
an application for concurrency review.
            4.   Addressing. The applicant shall apply for addresses for the
proposed lots and shall pay all applicable fees to Seminole County.
            5.   Supporting documentation.
               a.   Soils. Adequate soil type and drainage information to allow
determination of suitability of lots for building construction and septic tank
use (as pertinent).
               b.   Topography. Topography as delineated on U.S, Geological
Survey Maps is adequate, unless otherwise stated by Community Development or
Engineering staff.
               c.   Floodplain. The 100-year floodplain elevation, as
delineated on the most recent applicable Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), citing the map number and effective
date of that map (properties addressed by Chapter 160 of the City Code of
Ordinances, the Resource Protection Standards) shall clearly depict the 100-
year floodplain elevation on the survey or provide a statement that the site is
not within the 100-year floodplain.
               d.   Wetlands. If wetlands are present on any portion of the
subject property, the wetland boundary shall be identified and verified by both
the Army Corps Of Engineers and the St. Johns River Water Management District,
with the wetland line or lines depicted on the survey.
               e.   Proof that taxes have been paid. Proof that all applicable
property taxes have been paid when due, as defined in Chapter 197, Florida
Statutes.
               f.   The Community Development Department or City Engineer may
require additional information and data to ensure consistency with the
requirements of other applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, or when it is
reasonably necessary to protect the public health or safety, or both.
         (c)   Development Review Committee. After determining that the
application package is complete, the Community Development Department staff
shall distribute the application and supporting documentation to the
Development Review Committee. The Development Review Committee shall review the
application and supporting documentation for compliance with the City Code of
Ordinances, Comprehensive Plan, and other applicable regulations. The
Development Review Committee shall then approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the application.
         (d)   Recording. If the Development Review Committee approves the
application for the waiver, the City Manager or his/her designee shall issue a
lot split affidavit to the applicant. The applicant shall record the lot split
affidavit in the public records of Seminole County. The lot split affidavit
shall verify that the applicant legally subdivided or reconfigured his/her
property through the waiver procedure set forth in the City Code of Ordinances.
The individual lots created or reconfigured by the lot split may be sold and/or
building permits issued for these lots, only after the affidavit is recorded in
the public records of Seminole County. The property or properties subdivided or
reconfigured through this process may receive the benefit of this process on
only one occasion, and a plat or vacation and replat, as may otherwise be
pertinent, of the subject property shall not be required for that one event.
         (e)   Failure to meet the criteria. If the Development Review
Committee decides that the application does not meet the criteria identified in
this section, then the Development Review Committee shall provide specific
written comments to the applicant stating why the application did not meet the
criteria. When an application fails to meet the criteria, the applicant must
submit a subdivision plan consistent with the requirements of this code.
         (f)   Denial and resubmittal. If the application for a waiver to the
subdivision platting review process has been denied, then the Development
Review Committee shall provide written comments to the applicant, stating the
reasons for the denial. The applicant shall have six months to fully address
the Development Review Committee's comments and resubmit the complete
application. After six months, any resubmittal shall be considered a new
application.
      (3)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Lots or parcels that have been created or reconfigured as a
result of condemnation or other governmental acquisition, subject to meeting
all other applicable development standards;
         (b)   Lots or parcels that have been created or reconfigured as a
result of vacated public rights-of-way or railroad rights-of-way;
         (c)   Lots or parcels created or reconfigured pursuant to a court
order;
         (d)   Cemetery lots or parcels and/or interest therein; and
         (e)   Utility stations, including, but not limited to, public well or
water tower sites, sewer lift station sites, and public stormwater facility
sites.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 378, passed 6-2-88; Am. Ord. 598, passed
4-16-92; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 12-7-00; Am. Ord.
1137, passed 6-3-04; Am. Ord. 1140, passed 6-17-04)
§ 155.15 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The linen (or equivalent material) original of the final plat will be
submitted to the city for the purpose of recording with the Clerk of the
Circuit Court of Seminole County. Plats shall comply with these regulations and
F.S. Chapter 177. All fees and documents required by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Seminole County for filing and recording of the approved final plat
shall be transmitted to the clerk after final approval is received.
   (B)   No plat of lands in the city subject to these regulations shall be
recorded upon the public records of Seminole County, whether as an independent
instrument or by attachment to another instrument entitled to be recorded; or
placed in the records of the city; or the official map of the city so amended
until such time as the plat has received final plat approval from the Planning
and Zoning Board, and a surety for public improvements as detailed in §
155.22(D)(1)-(5) has been accepted by the city.
   (C)   Upon final approval by the Planning and Zoning Board, and acceptance
of a surety for improvements as detailed in §
155.22(D)(1)-(5), a copy of the plat shall be promptly delivered to the Clerk
of Circuit Court for recording upon the public records of Seminole County a
copy thereof placed in the records of the city, and the official map of the
city amended to reflect the platting of the land thereby affected.
   (D)   Subsequent to application for preliminary plat approval and until such
time as a plat has received final plat approval from the Planning and Zoning
Board, been recorded upon the public records of Seminole County, and placed of
record by the City Clerk and an approved performance bond or other surety as
hereinafter permitted for the construction of the required subdivision
improvements has been received by the City Clerk:
      (1)   No site development permit (development order) or building permit
shall be issued for any parcel located within the lands described in an
application for preliminary plat approval or the final plat submitted;
      (2)   No owner or agent of any parcel of land located therein shall sell
or transfer any such parcel other than by metes and bounds description; and
      (3)   Any such parcel sold or transferred shall be subject to all
applicable development regulations of the city unless and until request for
plat approval is withdrawn, one year from the date of preliminary approval of
the proposed plat or the extended date for final plat submittal, if final plat
approval is not received.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93)
REQUIRED SUBMITTALS
§ 155.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to outline the required submittals
for both the preliminary plan and the final plat.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.21 REQUIRED SUBMITTALS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The preliminary plan shall be drawn at a reasonable scale (100 feet to one
inch preferred), submitted in ten copies, and shall include the following:
   (A)   Legend, which will include the title and number of revision (for
example, the preliminary plan, or Woodnoll First Addition, Second Revision);
the date of the preliminary plan or revision; the scale of the plan; a north
arrow; the approximate acreage in the tract being subdivided; the total number
of lots; and the name, address, and telephone number of the developer or the
subdivider, the surveyor, and the engineer.
   (B)   Location map, showing the relationship between the area proposed for
development and the surrounding area.
   (C)   Legal description of the tract to be subdivided.
   (D)   Boundaries of the tract shown by a heavy line.
   (E)   Name, location, and right-of-way width of all existing streets,
rights-of- way, and platted streets within 200 feet of the proposed
subdivision; and the surface elevation, walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, and
the like.
   (F)   Name, or temporary designation (Street A, B, C, and so on), right-of-
way width, and type and width of pavement of all proposed streets. It shall
also include any streets shown on the adopted comprehensive plan.
   (G)   Proposed easements or rights-of-way other than for streets (for
example, for drainage, pedestrian ways, bridle paths, or bicycle paths), and
their location, width, and purpose.
   (H)   Lot lines and scaled dimensions, lot numbers, block numbers, and
building setback lines for irregularly shaped lots. The building setback
distance is the distance required to meet the minimum lot width of the zoning
district.
   (I)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches,
industry, parks, playgrounds, and other public and nonpublic uses exclusive of
single-family dwellings.
   (J)   Names of abutting subdivisions, and the recordation date and number.
   (K)   Utilities on and abutting the tract, including the location, size, and
invert elevation of sanitary, storm, and combined sewers; the location and size
of water mains; and the location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and
telephone poles, and street lights. If water mains and sewers are not on or
abutting the tract, the direction, distance, and size of the nearest ones,
showing the invert elevation of sewers, shall be indicated.
   (L)   Statement of the proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal,
street lighting, trash and garbage storage and collection, gas, cable TV, or
other utilities that are to be provided.
   (M)   Other existing improvements, including buildings, on the tract.
   (N)   Natural features, including lakes, marshes or swamps, water courses,
and other pertinent features; along with wooded areas and wetland boundaries as
defined in Ch. 160 of this code; the location of all trees on site which are a
minimum of six inches in diameter measured approximately three feet above the
ground designating the trees to be retained, removed, relocated, or replaced.
Smaller trees to the retained may also be shown by the applicant to assist the
Arbor Inspector in determining replacement requirements. Groups of trees in
close proximity may be designated as "clumps" of trees with the estimated
number and type of trees noted. Trees with a diameter of 24 inches and greater
shall be identified by type, height, diameter and canopy spread. Trees to be
removed, relocated, or replaced must be named (common or botanical name) on the
plan. A general description of existing vegetation on the tract shall also be
provided. One print of a recent aerial photo to a scale of one inch to 440 feet
or larger on which the boundaries of the tract are clearly defined. Copies or
photo of the U.S. Geological Survey map of flood-prone areas for this area to
be developed.
   (O)   Existing contours, at one foot intervals, based on the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 for the tract to be subdivided, and, where
practicable, extending 25 feet beyond the tract boundary, including water
surface elevations for all bodies of water, and the date obtained.
   (P)   Surface drainage, with direction of flow and method of disposition to
the natural drainage area indicated.
   (Q)   Ten-, 25-, and 100-year flood elevations within the project site
according to the national flood insurance program, flood insurance rate maps.
   (R)   Soils information. A soil classification map as an overlay for
comparison with proposed development activities shall be provided, and indicate
soil classifications on the preliminary plan as identified by the United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service in the "Seminole County
Soil Survey" and "Soil Survey Supplement." An applicant may challenge this
designation by securing competent expert evaluation, at the applicant's own
expense, demonstrating that the identified soils are not classified correctly.
If that determination is concurred in by the city, the soils shall be correctly
identified for the purpose of this chapter. Soil analysis by a qualified soil
engineer shall be furnished upon request of the city, and shall include, but
not be limited to, the following: the location and results of tests made to
ascertain subsurface soil, rock, and groundwater conditions; depth to
groundwater, unless test pits are dry, at a depth of five feet; the location
and results of soil percolation tests; and the location and extent of muck
pockets. Tests shall indicate weight- bearing capability of the soil after
stripping and compacting. This soils investigation shall include an evaluation
for sinkholes.
   (S)   Zoning on and abutting the tract.
   (T)   Proposed public improvements, including highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
   (U)   When required by the City Engineer, the preliminary plan shall be
accompanied by profiles showing existing ground surface and proposed street
grades, including extensions for a reasonable distance beyond the limits of the
proposed subdivision; typical cross- sections of the proposed grading, roadway,
and sidewalk; and preliminary plans of proposed sanitary and storm water sewers
with grades and sizes indicated. All elevations shall be based on North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   (V)   Draft of restrictive covenants, if any.
   (W)   Landscape and irrigation plan for all common areas.
   (X)   Environmental survey of endangered, threatened or protected species as
required by the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 553, passed 8-1-91; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
§ 155.22 REQUIRED SUBMITTALS FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The required submittals, meeting the legal requirements of platting, of the
final plat shall consist of a fully executed final plat, meeting all state and
city standards, final engineering drawings, auxiliary submittals, and all
required legal instruments.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The final plat shall be drawn with black drawing ink on linen
tracing cloth, or equally durable material, using sheets 24 inches by 36
inches. Each sheet shall have a marginal line completely around the sheet
placed to leave a three-inch binding margin on the left and one-inch binding
margin on the other three sides. If more than one sheet is required, a suitable
index map showing the entire subdivision, with an index for the various sheets,
shall be shown on the first sheet. Final plats shall meet all requirements of
F.S. Chapter 177, as amended, and shall be so certified by a land surveyor.
      (2)   In addition to the final plat, the surveyor shall submit to the
city traverse sheets or worksheets showing the calculated closure and limits of
error of the exterior boundaries and major blocks or parcels within the
subdivision. The computed errors of closure based on field measurements shall
be no greater than one in 10,000.
      (3)   The final plat shall be at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the
inch.
   (B)   Plat requirements. The final plat shall constitute only that portion
of the approved development plan which the subdivider proposed to record and
develop at the time, provided that portion conforms to all requirements of
these regulations. Eight copies of the final plat showing the following
information shall be provided:
      (1)   Title block to include the name of subdivision, the appropriate
section, township, and range, and the words, "Lake Mary, Seminole County,
Florida."
      (2)   The legal description of the area contained within the plat, with
bearings and distances, and with references to a subdivision corner tie.
      (3)   A vicinity map of a scale not less than 2,000 feet to one inch,
showing the proposed subdivision in relation to the surrounding streets.
      (4)   Permanent reference monuments shall be placed as required by F.S.
Chapter 177, as amended. Monuments shall be set out in the ground so that the
tip is flush, or not more than one foot below the finish grade. Permanent
control points shall be set along the street right-of-way or block lines at
PC's, PT's, PRC's, PCC's, and other changes in direction, excluding those
points located by permanent reference monuments.
      (5)   A legend which defines all symbols, shows stated and graphic scale,
and displays north arrow.
      (6)   Sufficient data to determine readily, and to reproduce on the
ground, the location, bearing, and length of each street right-of-way line,
boundary line, block line, and building line, whether curved or straight,
adequately correlated with monuments and markers.
      (7)   The right-of-way lines, widths, and names of all streets and roads.
      (8)   The radius, central angle, and arcs of all curved streets and
curved property lines.
      (9)   Lot lines, and lot and block numbers.
      (10)   Location and width of canals and waterways.
      (11)   Dedications, reservations, and easements, showing widths and
purpose, shall be delineated on the face of the plat, and shall not be
incorporated by reference.
      (12)   The names, locations, and plat book and page numbers of abutting
subdivisions and streets.
      (13)   Certificates, as required by F.S. Chapter 177, of owners, showing
dedications; of surveyor, confirming correctness; of Planning and Zoning Board
approval; of City Commission approval; and for Clerk of Circuit Court
recording. Signatures of owners must be in conformance with F.S. § 692.01, for
corporations, or F.S. Chapter 689, for individuals.
      (14)   A certificate of consent and approval by mortgagee on the plat or
as a separate instrument.
   (C)   Engineering drawings. Ten sets of blue or black line prints of the
final engineering plans and specifications for the following improvements, both
on-site and off-site, shall be submitted to the Planning Department at the same
time as final plat submittal:
      (1)   Water system. Size, material, and location of water mains, plus
valves and hydrants.
      (2)   Sewer system. Size, materials, manhole location and inverts, slopes
and location of lines, with submittal of profile where required.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage facilities in accordance with Appendix C.
      (4)   Bulkheads.
      (5)   Streets.
      (6)   Sidewalks, bicycle paths, and pedestrian paths.
      (7)   Excavation and fill.
      (8)   Soil classification and geotechnical study.
      (9)   Lot grading plan.
      (10)   The estimated cost of installing all required improvements to be
owned and maintained by the city shall be included. These estimates shall be
prepared by a state-registered engineer.
   (D)   Additional required legal submittals. The recording of the final plat
shall be made only pursuant to certification of adequacy of the following list
of required submittals, by the City Engineer and/or City Attorney, as
appropriate.
      (1)   A performance bond, in a form approved by the city, shall be
required from the developer for all improvements to be owned by the city. The
surety bond shall be executed by a company authorized to do business in the
state of Florida, that is satisfactory to the city, and must be payable to the
city. The bond shall be in the penal sum of 110% of the engineer's estimate, or
actual contract cost, for all required improvements to be owned and maintained
by the city. As an alternative to the provision of a surety bond, the developer
may provide for the deposit of cash in an escrow account, or an irrevocable
letter of credit as approved by the Finance Director.
      (2)   A dedication to the public by the owners of the land involved, of
all public roads, streets, alleys, and other rights-of-way, however designated,
shown on the plat for perpetual use for public road and street purposes. If the
property is encumbered by a mortgage, the owner and the mortgagee shall join in
the dedication and subordinate the mortgagee's interest to the dedication of a
public right-of-way. The dedication of the plat shall also include the
dedication to the public of all land, easements and improvements required to be
dedicated to the city under this code. Developers are also required to dedicate
or donate to the city on the plat all water distribution lines and
appurtenances and sewage collection systems, including lines, lift stations,
and appurtenances, constructed on public rights-of-way or public easements for
provision of service to the subdivision. In addition to plat dedications, the
city may also require bills of sale and separate easement agreements be
executed.
      (3)   A maintenance bond, in a form approved by the city, shall be posted
by the developer and executed by a company authorized to do business in the
state of Florida, satisfactory to the city, payable to the city in the amount
of 10% of the engineer's estimated construction cost, or actual contract cost,
of all required improvements to be owned and maintained by the city. The bond
shall guarantee maintenance of all required improvements to be owned and
maintained by the city for a two-year period, and the materials, workmanship,
and structural integrity of sewers and drainage facilities, excluding
mechanical equipment, for a two- year period, commencing after a certificate of
completion has been issued by the city. The manufacturer's warranty will be
acceptable for mechanical equipment if made out to the city and provided in
writing. The developer is to furnish a performance bond for the whole
development until completion. As an alternative to the provision of a surety
bond, the developer may provide for the deposit of cash in an escrow account or
an irrevocable letter of credit as approved by the Finance Director.
      (4)   Certification that all payable taxes have been paid and all tax
sales against the land redeemed.
      (5)   Title certification as required by F.S. Chapter 177, as amended.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1642, passed
6-17-21)
§ 155.23 SURETY FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No building permits will be issued for the construction of any
structures in a subdivision prior to completion and acceptance of subdivision
improvements by the city, unless and until an approved subdivision improvement
surety bond shall have been received by the City Clerk. In the alternative, and
only upon the specific consent and approval of the city, a cash escrow
agreement, cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit may be submitted in
lieu of an approved subdivision improvement surety bond.
   (B)   With regard to any irrevocable letter of credit, the city reserves the
option to require that said letter of credit be either advised or advised and
confirmed through such bank as the city may direct. All fees charged by the
nominated bank for the service shall be paid in advance by the applicant for
subdivision approval. Further, the city reserves the right to approve or
disapprove the bank or other financial institution issuing the letter of credit
for and on behalf of the applicant.
   (C)   The penal amount of the surety bond, cash escrow, cash deposit or
irrevocable letter of credit shall be 110% of the cost of the subdivision
improvements as estimated by the City Engineer or the actual contract price,
increased by the amount of any change order.
   (D)   At such time as the subdivisions improvements have been completed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications, inspected by the city
for compliance, all defects corrected and a certificate of completion of
subdivision improvements issued by the city, the city shall accept the
improvements for maintenance by the city upon compliance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   An approved subdivision improvements maintenance surety bond has
been received and validated by the City Clerk. Said surety bond shall be
written by a surety company authorized to do business in the State of Florida.
The bond shall be in the penal amount of 10% of the actual construction costs
of the total subdivision improvements. The bond shall guarantee maintenance of
all required improvements to be maintained by the city for a period of two
years commencing with formal acceptance of the improvements and shall further
be conditioned upon all improvements being replaced, repaired or reconstructed,
to the satisfaction of the city, to the standard of original construction or
installation prior to discharge of said bond. The term of the bond shall be
extended by affirmative vote of the City Commission.
      (2)   That all subdivision improvements have been repaired, reconstructed
or replaced to correct any defects, damage or deviation from the approved plans
and specifications to the satisfaction of the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91; Am. Ord. 641, passed
5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1642, passed 6-17-21)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.30 GENERAL.
   The project engineer shall certify the design and inspection of the
installation of all required improvements such as streets, drainage structures,
bridges, bulkheads, and water and wastewater facilities. All plans for
improvements shall be prepared by the engineer and, prior to construction, must
be approved by the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.31 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent reference monuments. Permanent reference monuments shall be
placed as required by F.S. Chapter 177, as amended. Monuments shall be set in
the ground so that the top is flush or no more than one foot below the finished
grade.
   (B)   Permanent control points. Permanent control points shall be set along
the street right-of-way or block lines at PC's, PT's, PRC's, PCC's, and other
changes in direction, excluding those points located by PRM's.
   (C)   Permanent bench marks. Permanent bench marks to establish mean sea
level vertical control shall be installed within the subdivision at intervals
not to exceed 1,000 feet.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.32 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The development of new water facilities and mains, and the
expansion of existing water systems, shall be designed by the project engineer
in accordance with all applicable state and local criteria.
      (2)   Central water systems shall be designed to satisfy the domestic
water supply and fire protection requirements for the area, and shall be
designed and constructed for an economic life of not less than 50 years. The
city shall have the right of final design review approval and inspection of all
central water systems.
   (B)   Water systems. Each lot within a subdivision shall be provided with
connection to an approved public or central water supply system.
      (1)   If a property owner currently has a private well furnishing water
for consumption by human beings, and an extension of the system is within 100
feet of the property, then he shall be required to tie on to the system for the
supply of water for human consumption, but may maintain the private water
supply for outdoor watering or agricultural purposes.
         (a)   Where the property line of any property lies within 100 feet of
a franchised or city-owned water system, then the property owner is prohibited
from constructing any wells where the use of water from the wells is meant for
human consumption.
         (b)   Where the property lies within 100 feet of a franchised or city-
owned water system, no permits will be issued for the construction of water
wells; however, wells for outdoor watering or agricultural purposes will be
permitted.
      (2)   If a subdivision contains lots averaging two acres, but in no
individual lot case less than 50,000 net square feet, and an average of 250
feet at the building line, septic tanks and individual water supply wells may
be utilized, subject to demonstration of adequacy of the water supply, and to
the other conditions of this chapter.
      (3)   New central water systems where required shall be designed by a
state-registered engineer in accordance with the regulations of the city, the
State Department of Health, and standards established in this chapter.
      (4)   Private wells shall be located not less than 75 feet from any
sources of pollution, including septic tanks, drainage fields, wastewater
lines, or polluted bodies of water. Regulations established herein shall not
apply to water systems which are designed, constructed, and marked exclusively
for irrigation purposes.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.33 SANITARY WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Central wastewater systems.
      (1)   The development of new wastewater facilities and mains, and the
expansion of existing wastewater systems, shall be designed by the project
engineer in accordance with all applicable state and local criteria.
      (2)   Central wastewater systems shall be designed to satisfy the
domestic sewage requirements for the area, and shall be designed and
constructed for an economic life of not less than 50 years. The city shall have
the right of final review approval and inspection of all central wastewater
systems.
   (B)   Individual wastewater disposal systems. All individual wastewater
disposal systems are subject to the approval of the city and other regulatory
agencies. Individual wastewater systems, which serve only one lot, may be
permitted when the requirements for a central wastewater system are waived
under one of the following conditions, and the following criteria can be met:
      (1)   The maximum flow into septic tanks shall be 1,500 gallons per acre
per day on lots without central water, and 2,500 gallons per acre per day on
lots which have a central water system
      (2)   Lot size requirements shall be in accordance with the zoning
regulations, but never less than:
         (a)   One-unit residential structure:
            1.   Private well and septic tank, 21,780 square feet.
            2.   Central water and septic tank.
               a.   With swale drainage, 10,890 square feet.
               b.   With closed drainage, four lots per net acre excluding
roads, retention pond tracts, natural water bodies below the normal high water
elevation, fresh water swamps, conservation and recreation areas, and landscape
buffers and green belts where those areas are in separate tracts.
         (b)   Two-unit residential structure:
            1.   Private well and septic tank, 21,780 square feet.
            2.   Central water and septic tank, 10,890 square feet.
         (c)   Three- and four-unit residential structure:
            1.   Private well and septic tank, not allowed.
            2.   Central water and septic tank.
               a.   Three-unit, 13,615 square feet.
               b.   Four-unit, 16,355 square feet.
         (d)   Five or more units residential structure: Must have central
water and sewer.
         (e)   Commercial/industrial.
            1.   Private well and septic tank, 21,780 square feet, provided
sufficient water storage capacity is provided for fire protection.
            2.   Central water and septic tank, 10,890 square feet.
         (f)   Lakefront lots, 43,560 square feet (septic tanks with either
private well or central water).
      (3)   Septic tanks, drainfields, and drainfield expansion areas shall be
located at least 150 feet from the mean high water elevation of all natural
water bodies, and 75 feet from all other surface waters. In addition, septic
tanks, drainfields, and drainfield expansion areas shall meet minimum setback
requirements as set forth in Ch. 160 from public water supply wells, and no
less than 75 feet from private water wells. In no case shall septic tanks or
drainfields be located in rights-of-way or easements.
      (4)   Individual wastewater systems, as a minimum requirement, shall have
the invert of the septic tank effluent opening constructed at the highest
elevation of the following criteria:
         (a)   One and one-half feet above the 100-year flood elevation.
         (b)   Three feet above the elevation of the normal wet season water
table.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93)
Penalty, see § 155.99
VACATING OF PLATS, REPLATS, AND CORRECTION OF ERRORS
§ 155.40 VACATING OF PLATS.
   (A)   By owner.
      (1)   The owner of any land subdivided into lots may petition the city
under the provisions of F.S. § 177.101 to remove (vacate and annul) the
existing plat, or portion of a plat, from the official records of the county.
      (2)   The applicant for vacating of a plat or a part of a plat shall file
the petition, certificate of title, statement of taxes, and shall pay the
appropriate filing fee as established by the city.
      (3)   Following review of the appropriate departments and recommendations
of the Planning and Zoning Board, the petition shall be acted upon by the City
Commission.
      (4)   The applicant shall be responsible for recording the petition and
the proof of publication with the Clerk of the Circuit Court for the county.
   (B)   By city.
      (1)   The City Commission may, on its own motion, order the vacation and
annulment of all or any part of a subdivision within its jurisdiction.
      (2)   This action may include the vacation of dedicated rights-of-way and
easements, provided that:
         (a)   The subdivision plat was lawfully recorded not less than five
years before the date of this action by the Commission; and
         (b)   No more than 10% of the total subdivision or part thereof has
been sold as lots by the original subdivider or his successor in title.
      (3)   This action shall be based on a finding by the Commission that:
         (a)   The proposed vacation and annulment of the plat will result in
greater conformity with the comprehensive plan of the area; and
         (b)   The public health, safety, and welfare will be promoted thereby.
      (4)   Before acting on a proposal for vacation and annulment of
subdivided land, the Commission shall hold a hearing, with due public notice
(notice of intent).
   (C)   Access to individually-owned parcels. No owner of any parcel of land
in a subdivision shall be deprived by the vacation and annulment of a plat or a
portion of a plat, of reasonable access to the parcel, nor of reasonable access
therefrom to existing facilities to which the parcel has access. However, the
access remaining or provided after such vacation need not be the same as that
theretofore existing.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93)
§ 155.41 REPLATS AND RESUBDIVISION.
   If a platted area is proposed to be replatted and if the proposed plat is
substantially similar in design, layout, and concept to the original plat, and
if all lots, roads, and easements are in conformance, without variance, to this
chapter or other appropriate standards, then only a final plat complying with
the requirements of these regulations needs to be filed. The original plat or
portion of plat of the parcel to be replatted must be vacated and annulled in
accordance with the procedures established by F.S. Chapter 177, and these
regulations, prior to final approval of the revised final plat by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93)
§ 155.42 CORRECTIVE PLATS.
   In the event an appreciable error or omission in the data shown on any plat
recorded under the provisions of these regulations and F.S. Chapter 177, is
detected by subsequent examination or revealed by a retracement of the lines
during the original survey of the lands shown on the recorded plat, the land
surveyor who was responsible for the survey and the preparation of the plat as
recorded may file an affidavit confirming that error or omission was made.
However, the affidavit must state that he has made a resurvey of the subject
property in the recorded subdivision within the last ten days, and that no
evidence existed on the ground that would conflict with the corrections as
stated in the affidavit. The affidavit shall describe the nature and extent of
the error or omission and the appropriate correction that, in his opinion,
should be substituted for erroneous data shown on the plat or added to the data
on the plat. This affidavit shall be filed and recorded in accordance with F.
S. Chapter 177.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.43 VACATING OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Roads, rights-of-way, and easements may be vacated at a public hearing
of the City Commission with proper publication of notice, and following a
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (B)   (1)   Applicant must submit an application with a statement outlining
the reason for the request, and a sketch of description and legal description
of the area to be vacated, including the tax parcel identification number. The
burden will be on the applicant to show that the request complies with all of
the following:
         (a)   That the request is in conjunction with a new development or
redevelopment;
         (b)   That the request is in the “public interest” (defined as
something that benefits the public as a whole, not just a singular property
owner - such as increasing size of property);
         (c)   That the request will not adversely affect surrounding property
owners; and
         (d)   That the request conforms with utility company regulations by
providing a letter from each utility company stating they approve or disapprove
the vacate.
      (2)   Applicant may also be required to provide the city easements for
future use to be determined by the city.
   (C)   The City Commission will consider the application based on the
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board and appropriate departments
with regard to the above standards.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93; Am. Ord. 1427, passed
9-22-11)
§ 155.44 TIME LIMIT.
   Approval of the subdivision plan and any recorded plat shall be
automatically void if a preconstruction conference has not commenced within one
year from the date of approval. The Board or its designate may grant a time
extension upon written request to the city, provided that the plans and plats
still comply with current regulations.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
LEGAL STATUS
§ 155.50 INTERPRETATION.
   This section shall not be construed to have the effect of repealing any
existing ordinance concerning the subject matter of this chapter, but the
regulations established herein shall be supplemental and cumulative. However,
in the case of direct conflict with a provision or provisions of any existing
ordinance, the provision which is more restrictive and imposes higher standards
or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 155.51 FALSE REPRESENTATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or agent of the owner, to falsely
represent to a prospective purchaser of real estate that roads and streets,
sewers, water systems, or drainage facilities will be built, constructed, or
maintained by the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-65)
§ 155.52 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall take effect upon adoption by the City Commission.
Subdivisions for which preliminary or final plans or plats have been approved
prior to the effective date may be developed and completed according to the
pre-existing requirements for subdivisions. However, preliminary or final
subdivision plans or plats which are approved prior to the effective date shall
not be substantially amended or changed after the effective date, except to
conform with the regulations established herein.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
FORMS OF AGREEMENT AND LETTER OF CREDIT
§ 155.61 CASH ESCROW AGREEMENT.
   This agreement, entered into this        day of                   , 20   ,
by                , hereinafter referred to as "Developer", and
                , hereinafter referred to as "Lender", and the City Commission
of Lake Mary, a political subdivision of the State of Florida, hereinafter
referred to as "City",
   WITNESSETH:
   WHEREAS, Developer is the owner of certain real property located in Lake
Mary, Florida, more particularly described in Exhibit A, attached hereto,
hereinafter referred to as the subject property, and
   WHEREAS, Developer has submitted to the City a subdivision plan and
specifications for the development of the subject property, which plan was
approved by the City Commission on          , and
   WHEREAS, Developer has available to be drawn from Lender the sum of
    dollars for the purpose of developing and improving the subject property in
accordance with the requirements of the City for approval of the subdivision
plan and specifications, and
   WHEREAS, the sum of        dollars shall be held by Lender in escrow for
benefit of the Developer and the City to be disbursed in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this Agreement,
   NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
   A.   The Developer agrees:
      1.   To the establishment of an escrow account with           in the
amount of        dollars to cover the cost of improvements required by the City
in accordance with the plans and specifications for development of
             as approved by the City Commission on          .
      2.   The funds established in said escrow account shall only be used to
install the required improvements in the subdivision and said funds shall not
be disbursed except by mutual consent of Developer, the Lender, and the City.
      3.   That ten percent (10%) of each payment request approved shall be
withheld and shall remain in the account until the last payment is requested.
Said funds shall be disbursed along with the final payment at such time as the
subdivision improvements have been accepted by the city for maintenance. All
required improvements shall be satisfactorily installed within twelve (12)
months of final plat approval or thereafter as that date may be extended.
      4.   To notify the City at least two (2) days prior to the construction
of or installation of any of the subdivision improvements.
   B.   The              agrees:
      1.   That           dollars has been deposited in an escrow account for
the purpose of installing the required improvements in the subdivision and
shall only be used for that purpose and no other purpose.
      2.   To withhold a maximum of ten percent (10%) of each progress payment
which sums shall be disbursed at the time of final payment.
      3.   To disburse funds from said account only upon the consent of both
developer and city.
      4.   Not to disburse any money from said escrow account until the Lender
has received written notice from the City that the work represented by a
progress payment has been satisfactorily completed and approved by the city and
not to pay the retainage or final payment until the city has issued the
Certificate of Completion.
   C.   City agrees:
      1.   To periodically inspect the improvements made to the subject
property both during construction and upon completion of the improvements and
as necessary to authorize a progress payment and final payment.
      2.   Inspect the completed improvements within fourteen (14) days after
receiving written notice from the Developer that the improvement has been
completed. Further, to promptly notify developer of any defect in work which
would preclude payment and to submit each progress payment and the final
payment to the City Commission for payment not later than the second commission
meeting following inspection and staff approval.
   D.   The parties expressly understand and agree:
      1.   If at any time, the City determines that the balance remaining in
the escrow account is insufficient to pay the costs of completion of the
improvements to the subdivision, the City, at its option, may require the
Developer to deposit with the Lender or with the City such additional funds as
may be necessary to pay for completion of the subdivision improvements. In no
event does Lender or City make any representation that the funds placed in
escrow with the Lender pursuant to the terms of this Agreement are sufficient
to pay the costs of development and improvement of the subject property as a
subdivision; and in no event shall the Lender or City become liable to
Developer, Developer's contractor, or Developer's engineer for payment of any
funds not in accordance with this Agreement. Lender shall act only as escrow
agent and any disbursement made by Lender shall not give rights to any
liability or recourse against Lender by any person whatsoever by reason of or
arising from said disbursement.
      2.   In the event that the Developer fails to complete the improvements
within the time prescribed by this Agreement, the City may elect to:
         a.   Agree to an extension of time for the completion of the
improvements, or
         b.   At any time thereafter, cause all or any part of the improvements
to be completed, in which case the Lender shall be obligated to pay the actual
cost of said work to the City as certified by the City to the extent of any
undisbursed funds in the escrow account. In the event that the undisbursed
funds are not sufficient to reimburse the City for the cost of completing all
or part of the improvements, the Developer hereby agrees to indemnify the City
and to assume responsibility for all costs exceeding the amount of undisbursed
funds available to the City including reasonable attorney's fees incurred in
the collection of any sum due under this Agreement.
      3.   Upon acceptance by the City Commission, then this escrow Agreement
shall terminate and the parties hereto shall be discharged from any further
obligation or liability hereunder.
   E.   Any notice required to be given or documents required to be delivered
by the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed properly given or delivered if
hand delivered, or mailed to the proper party or parties by the United States
mail, return receipt requested, at the following addresses:
   Developer:
   Lender:
   Lake Mary:
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this
          day of          , 20   
                     
      DEVELOPER
                     
      LENDER
                     
      CITY
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91)
§ 155.62 DEVELOPER'S CASH ESCROW AGREEMENT.
   This Agreement, entered into this        day of             , 20    between
                , hereinafter referred to as Developer's, and the City
Commission of Lake Mary, Florida, a political subdivision of the State of
Florida, hereinafter referred to as "City".
   WITNESSETH:
   WHEREAS, the Developer desires to develop certain real property located in
Lake Mary, more particularly described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, and
   WHEREAS, for the purpose of developing the subject property, the Developer
has submitted to Lake Mary a subdivision plan and specifications for a
subdivision to be known as             , and
   WHEREAS, the City has required the Developer to post a bond insuring the
satisfactory completion of all improvements to the subject property in
accordance with the                      Subdivision Plans and Specifications,
   NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
   1.   The Developer hereby binds and obligates himself to complete all
improvements as shown on the              Subdivision Plans and Specifications
as approved by the City Commission on              , 20    within twelve (12)
months from the date of this Agreement or such date as may be extended by the
City Commission.
   2.   The Developer hereby deposits in escrow with the City Commission of
Lake Mary, Florida, the penal sum of           dollars, to insure and guarantee
that all improvements set forth on the plans and specifications for the       
Subdivision will be fully completed and paid for.
   3.   The City agrees to hold said funds in escrow and to pay same out in the
following manner:
      A.   Progress payments will be made to the Developer upon written request
by the Developer and upon satisfactory proof to the City that the improvement
or improvements or portion thereof for which payment is requested have been
satisfactorily completed. A 10% retainage will be withheld from each progress
payment. Said sums will be paid to Developer along with the final payment at
such time as the improvements shall be accepted by the City for maintenance.
      B.   Upon a determination by the City that any portion or all of the
improvements have not been performed by the Developer within twelve months from
the date of this Agreement or such date as may be extended by the City
Commission, the City is hereby authorized, but not obligated, to take over and
perform any such uncompleted work and to use for such purposes the funds so
deposited in escrow with the City.
      C.   The City is furthermore authorized to pay any bills for said
improvements upon proof satisfactory to the City that such claims are just and
unpaid, and the Developer hereby consents to any such payments and authorizes
and ratifies any such action on the part of the City, and agrees to protect and
save harmless the City from any claims of any persons on account of any
improvements which have not been completed or paid for.
      D.   Ten percent (10%) of the entire escrow deposit shall be held by the
City pending final completion of all improvements and certification by the City
that the improvements have been completed satisfactorily and in accordance with
the subdivision plans and specifications, and that all work and materials have
been paid in full and acceptance of same by the City Commission for
maintenance.
      E.   If at any time the City determines that the balance remaining in the
escrow account is insufficient to pay the cost of completion of improvements to
the subdivision, the City at its option, may require the Developer to deposit
with the City such additional funds as may be necessary to pay for completion
of the subdivision improvements. In no event does the City make any
representation that the funds placed in escrow with the City pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement are sufficient to pay the costs of development and
improvement of the property owned by the Developer. In no event shall the City
become liable to Developer, the Developer's contractor, or the Developer's
engineer for payments of any funds not in accordance with this Agreement.
      F.   Upon completion of all subdivision improvements to the satisfaction
of the City, and the payment of all bills for work and materials, the City
shall return to the Developer any funds remaining in the escrow account with
the City.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as to
the day and year first above written.
                        
         CITY
                        
         DEVELOPER
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91)
§ 155.63 IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT.
   TO:   City Commission
      Lake Mary City Hall
      Lake Mary, Florida
Gentlemen:
   This is to advise that (bank or lending institution) hereby extends its
irrevocable credit to the City Commission of Lake Mary, Florida, in the sum of
       dollars ($   ) to guarantee that all improvements set forth in the
       Subdivision Plans and Specifications and Developer's Agreement, as
approved by Lake Mary, will be fully completed and paid for by          ,
Developer of said Subdivision.
   The(bank or lending institution) guarantees that this sum shall be available
upon demand by the City Commission, available by your drafts at sight, along
with your signed statement that drawing is due        20    all improvements
set forth in the        Subdivision Plans and Specifications.
   Except as far as otherwise stated, this standby letter of credit is subject
to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (1983 Revision),
International Chamber of Commerce Publication 400, for revision currently in
effect.
   In the event that the improvements shown on the Subdivision Plans and
Specifications are not completed or paid in full by the     day of
            , 20   , then and in that event, the City Commission of Lake Mary,
Florida is authorized to draw upon this credit.
   You will notify us when either:
   1.   The improvements have been timely completed and the credit may be
released, or
   2.   The Developer has failed to perform or is in default on its obligation
to complete and pay for said improvements.
   We hereby agree with the drawers, endorsers, and bona fide holders of drafts
under and in compliance with the terms of this credit that the same shall be
duly honored on due presentation and delivery of documents as specified if
negotiated on or before the        day of          , 20    .
      Sincerely yours,
                     
      (bank or lending institution)
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91)
§ 155.64 (RESERVED).
§ 155.65 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS PERFORMANCE SURETY BOND.
   The form and conditions of a subdivision improvements performance surety
bond shall be as follows:
   CITY OF LAKE MARY
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
   PERFORMANCE BOND
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: that
                     (Here insert full name and address of the entity legally
responsible for installation and construction of subdivision improvements, the
Developer) as Principal, hereinafter called "Developer" and,
                     (Here insert full name and address of Surety) as Surety,
hereinafter called "Surety", are held and firmly bound unto the City of Lake
Mary, Florida, 100 W. Lake Mary Blvd., Lake Mary, Florida 32746, as Obligee,
hereinafter called "City" in the amount of           (Here insert the amount of
the bond) for the payment whereof Developer and Surety bind themselves, their
heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, jointly and
severally, firmly by these presents.
WHEREAS,
Developer is obligated pursuant to the ordinances of the City of Lake Mary,
Florida, and a Developer's Agreement dated       , 19    to City for the
installation and construction of various and sundry subdivision improvements as
required for the              (Here insert name of subdivision) as approved by
the City Commission on       , 19   ; which ordinances, Development Agreement
and subdivision approval are by reference made a part hereof and are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the Contract".
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION is such that, if Developer
shall promptly and faithfully perform said Contract, then this obligation shall
be null and void; otherwise it shall remain in full force and effect.
The Surety hereby waives notice of any alteration or extension of time or
amendment of the Developer's Agreement or subdivision approval made by the
City.
Whenever Developer shall be, and declared by City to be, in default under the
contract, the Surety shall promptly remedy the default by:
   Obtaining a bid or bids for completing the Contract in accordance with its
terms and conditions, and upon determination by the City and the Surety jointly
of the lowest responsible bidder, arranging for a contract between such bidder
and City, and making available as Work progresses (even though there should be
a default or a succession of defaults under the contract or contracts of
completion arranged under this paragraph) sufficient funds to pay the cost of
completion but not exceeding, including other costs and damages for which the
Surety may be liable hereunder, the amount set forth in the first paragraph
hereof.
Any suit under this bond must be instituted before the expiration of three (3)
years from the date on which subdivision approval was first given by the City
Commission of the City of Lake Mary, Florida.
No right of action shall accrue on this bond to or for the use of any person or
corporation other than the City named herein or the successors of the City.
Signed and sealed this        day of       , 19    .
            
Developer
            
Witness
By:                   
                  
Surety
         
Witness
By:                  
(Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91)
§ 155.66 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS MAINTENANCE SURETY BOND.
   The form and conditions of a subdivision improvements maintenance surety
bond shall be as follows:
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS MAINTENANCE BOND
Agreement made on           between           of          , City of       ,
State of Florida, referred to as principal, and                of
                   , City of          , County of          , State of Florida,
referred to as surety and the City of Lake Mary, Florida, referred to as
obligee.
   RECITALS
The parties recite and declare:
   A. That                   , as surety, is authorized to do business in the
state of Florida as a surety bonding company.
   B.   That,                  as principal, and                    as surety,
are firmly bound to the City of Lake Mary, Florida, in the penal sum of
                     ,and undertake to the City of Lake Mary, State of Florida,
to guarantee for the period of two (2) years, from and after the date of
issuance of the Certificate of Completion of subdivision improvements pursuant
to plans and specifications approved for subdivision by the City of Lake Mary
on                    , said improvements required pursuant to §
155.01 et seq, Code of ordinances, City of Lake Mary, Florida, and all
appendixes thereto and other ordinances of the City of Lake Mary.
   C.   The obligations of this guarantee bond shall be deemed to be fulfilled
at the end of two (2) years from the date of issuance of the Certificate of
Completion for the improvements by the City provided that, at the time, all
parts of every improvement shall be in good condition and constructed and
maintained as required by the specifications of the applicable codes and
regulations of the City of Lake Mary, Florida, and subdivision plans as
approved on             for             .
   TERMS
   1.   The             , as principal, and          , as surety, specifically
warrant and guarantee to the City of Lake Mary, Florida, that in the event any
improvement as so required shall not be in good repair and/or all damage to or
defects in said improvements corrected and/or repaired or constructed or
reconstructed, if found not to have been constructed and installed as required
to the satisfaction of the City Commission of the City of Lake Mary, Florida,
before or at the time of expiration of two (2) years from the date of issuance
of Certificate of Completion; then and in that event the improvement or
improvements shall be placed in a condition of good repair and/or replaced or
reconstructed to the standard of the original specifications at the principal's
expense, all to the satisfaction of the City Commission. Further the terms and
conditions of this bond and the obligations hereof shall extend until such time
as all necessary repairs and/or reconstruction shall have been made, approved
and accepted by the City Commission.
   2.   If the principal shall fully comply with the terms and conditions of
this Subdivision Improvements Maintenance Bond and further, if the principal
shall fully indemnify the City of Lake Mary, Florida, for all loss that the
City of Lake Mary, Florida, may sustain by reason of any defect in materials,
construction or failure on the part of principal to fully maintain said
subdivision improvements, for the period of two (2) years from and after the
issuance of Certificate of Compliance, or thereafter until this bond shall be
fully discharged, then this obligation shall be void; otherwise, it shall
remain in full force and affect.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and seals, the     day of
         , 19   .
Signed, sealed and delivered in presence of:
                           (L.S.)
As to Principal            By
               As Principal
            
As to Principal
                           (L.S.)
As to Surety               By
                  As Surety
            
As to Surety
(Ord. 547, passed 6-6-91)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this land development code for any person
to construct, open, modify, or dedicate any street, driveway, sanitary sewer,
water main, or drainage structure without first having obtained site plan
approval and otherwise having complied with the provisions of this chapter. It
shall also be a violation for any person to sell any lot, or lay out,
construct, open, or dedicate any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
main, or drainage structure without having first complied with the provisions
of this chapter, or otherwise violate any provision of these regulations.
   (B)   Any person, whether as owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee, or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this code, or permits any
violation to continue, or otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of
this code or of any plan or statement submitted and approved under the
provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a violation and subject to
prosecution. Upon conviction, that person shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action, including, but not limited to, resort to equitable action, as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of the rules, conditions,
covenants, stipulations, or terms of these regulations.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 641, passed 5-20-93)
APPENDIX A: STREET SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
Streets
   
1.   General
   
2.   Design criteria
   
3.   Construction standards
Driveways and Curbcuts
   
4.   General
   
5.   Width
   
6.   Distance from drainage inlet
   
7.   Spacing
   
8.   Driveway sight distance
   
9.   Closing of existing curbcuts
   
10.   Number and location
   
11.   Vehicle standing in right-of-way prohibited
   
12.   Sidewalk section
   
13.   Joint-use driveways
   
14.   Authority to alter curbcuts
   
15.   Commercial/industrial driveways and internal circulation
Blocks and Crosswalks
   
16.   General
   
17.   Block length
   
18.   Pedestrian crosswalks
Lots
   
19.   General
   
20.   Dimensions
   
21.   Double-frontage lots
Variances and Penalty
   
22.   Variances
   
23.   Penalty
   Figure 1:   Standard concrete curb diagrams
   Figure 2:   Corner clearances
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 93
STREETS
§ 1. GENERAL.
   (A)   The character, width, grade, and location of all streets and bridges
shall conform to the standards in this appendix, and shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the
proposed uses of the land to be served by the streets. Whenever not modified by
these standards, the guidelines of the "Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for
Design, Construction, and Maintenance for Streets and Highways, State of
Florida, Current Edition" (Green Book), referred to therein shall be the
minimum acceptable standards.
   (B)   The transportation guidelines of the city, as adopted December 21,
1989 by Resolution No. 343 of the City Commission, are hereby made part of and
are to be considered incorporated into this chapter.
   (C)   Streets shall also be arranged in accordance with the following
criteria.
      (1)   Conform with the Orlando Urban Area Transportation Study Plan or
other such plans as may be determined applicable by the city.
      (2)   Be integrated with the street system of the surrounding area in a
manner which is not detrimental to existing neighborhoods.
      (3)   Be such that the use of local streets by through traffic is
discouraged.
      (4)   Facilitate and coordinate with the desirable future development of
adjoining property of a similar character, and provide for local circulation
and convenient access to neighborhood facilities.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
§ 2 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   These street design requirements are intended to provide minimum standards
for public streets serving the various uses permitted by this appendix, to
protect the capacity of the city's street system and avoid undue congestion on
these streets, and to lessen unnecessary conflicts between moving vehicles,
parked vehicles, and pedestrians. Not all design features can be covered in the
following text. Specific design elements not covered in the following text will
be developed as directed by the City Engineer and subject to approval by the
City Commission (from the Green Book "Manual of Minimum Uniform Standards").
   (A)   Spacing of urban intersections.
      (1)   Spacing for non-signalized urban street intersections by functional
classification, as defined by the above-referenced "Manual of Uniform Minimum
Standards."
         (a)   An arterial may intersect another arterial if aligned with and
extending an existing arterial on the other side of the intersection or at a
desirable distance of one mile from the intersection of existing arterials.
         (b)   A collector may intersect an arterial if aligned with and
extending an existing collector which intersects the arterial or at a desirable
distance of one-quarter mile from the intersection of an existing collector and
the arterial.
         (c)   Intersections between local streets and arterials should be
avoided. In cases where they do intersect, the local street shall be aligned
with and extending an existing local street which intersects the arterial or at
a desirable distance of 660 feet from any other street intersection.
         (d)   A collector may intersect another collector if aligned with and
extending an existing collector on the other side of the intersection or at a
desirable distance of 660 feet from the intersection of any other intersection.
         (e)   A local street may intersect a collector if spaced at a minimum
distance of 660 feet from any other intersection, or, in the case of a
intersection, at a desirable distance of 330 feet from any other street
intersection.
         (f)   A local street may intersect another local street if aligned
with and extending another local street on the other side of the intersection,
or at a minimum distance of 150 feet from any other intersection.
         (g)   All streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, but in no case shall the angle of the intersection be less
than 60°. Multiple intersections involving the juncture of more than two
streets shall be prohibited. A minimum sight distance of 200 feet from any
intersection shall be maintained on the intersecting streets. This is the
minimum sight distance, and greater distances may be required in order to
satisfy the specifications of Section III, Paragraph 9, "Intersection Design,"
of the "Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design, Construction, and
Maintenance for Streets and Highways."
      (2)   Spacing for signalized urban intersections. In order that distances
between signals are capable of providing reasonable cycle lengths,
intersections that are planned to be signalized should be spaced a minimum of
one-quarter mile.
      (3)   Minimum spacing requirements that may be reduced. The minimum
spacing requirements of this section may be reduced upon a finding by the city
that given the particular conditions of the proposed development, the minimums
cannot be met, and reduction will not compromise operational and safety
standards.
      (4)   Radii at intersections.
         (a)   The minimum intersection radii of back of curb at all typical
intersections approximating a right angle shall be as follows:
 
Category                        Minimum Radius (feet)
Local to Local                  30
Local or collector to collector 35
Local or collector to arterial  40
 
         (b)   A taper or deceleration lane may be required on roads with a
functional classification of collector or higher, or design speeds 30 m.p.h. or
greater. For other than right-angle intersections, the angle of intersection
will dictate the turning radii. The "Manual of Minimum Standards" shall be used
as a guide but the City Commission must approve any design.
   (B)   Median criteria.
      (1)   Median separation requirements. Median separation is required on
all streets with four or more travel lanes, and design speeds in excess of 35
m.p.h., or as may be required by the city.
      (2)   Minimum median widths:
         (a)   The minimum width of a median containing a left turn lane shall
be 16 feet.
         (b)   A median divided roadway shall have a median width adequate to
accommodate crossing and left turning vehicles from a side street or drive
without the front or rear of the vehicle extending into the through lanes of
traffic. Twenty- two feet shall be the minimum width required.
      (3)   Median openings:
         (a)   Median openings on all streets classed as collector or above
should not be spaced at a distance less than 660 feet from any other median
opening unless specifically approved by the city.
         (b)   Dedicated public streets are given priority consideration for
median openings.
         (c)   All median designs and provisions shall be consistent with
standards provided by the "Manual of Minimum Standards for Design and
Maintenance for Streets and Highways," published by the State Department of
Transportation.
         (d)   All median openings for left turns shall include a taper and
storage lane. The minimum lengths for taper and storage lanes are included in
division (C).
         (e)   The preferred end treatment for median openings is the
bulletnose design rather than the circular design.
         (f)   The width of median openings shall be a minimum of 40 feet,
except for one-way operation.
         (g)   The median opening of a one-way operation shall be established
by the turning radius of the largest anticipated design vehicle entering the
opening or as directed by the city.
         (h)   No median opening shall be allowed where the median is intended
to shadow a crossing or left turning vehicle (from side street or driveway),
but is of insufficient width to do so.
   (C)   Turn lanes and tapers.
      (1)   Requirements for turn lanes and tapers. Turn lanes and tapers
reduce conflict between the traffic on driveways or intersecting streets and
the traffic on the through street. This conflict reduction is achieved by
providing turning vehicles with a refuge area where acceleration, deceleration,
storage, and turning maneuvers may be accomplished. Turn lanes and tapers may
be required on arterial and collector streets for the following conditions.
         (a)   The speed limit of the accessed street is 30 m.p.h. or greater.
         (b)   The parcel of property accessing the street is projected to
generate 500 or more vehicle trips per day, or 50 or more vehicle trips in any
hour.
         (c)   The parcel of property accessing the street is residential and
has 50 or more dwelling units.
         (d)   The parcel of property accessing the street is in a development
that characteristically experiences peaks in its trip generation patterns, such
as schools, restaurants, public assembly places.
         (e)   At any development as a traffic impact analysis may warrant.
         (f)   At any parcel of property where a use changes to one that meets
one of the above conditions.
         (g)   At any intersecting street that has an average daily traffic of
500 or more vehicles per day or 50 or more vehicles in any hour.
         (h)   At any location where grade or other unusual conditions indicate
turn lanes to be desirable, as determined by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Dedication of additional right- of-way. On any arterial or
collector street within a minimum of 150 feet, or as required, of its
intersection with another arterial or collector, or at any other location where
provisions of this appendix require additional right-of-way, the right-of-way
shall be increased by at least ten feet or as required to permit proper design
of auxiliary lanes and tapers. This additional right-of- way shall be dedicated
or conveyed as a public right-of-way easement.
      (3)   Right turn deceleration and storage lanes. The desirable
requirements for lengths of tapers and storage for right turn lanes are based
on the speed limit of the road, and are as follows:
Posted Speed Of Roadway (m.p.h.) Length of Storage
                                Length of Taper Stop Condition Free Right
Posted Speed Of Roadway (m.p.h.) Length of Storage
                                Length of Taper Stop Condition Free Right
30                               150             50             50
35                               170             105            80
40                               190             135            110
45                               210             165            140
50                               230             195            170
55                               250             210            200
 
      (4)   Acceleration lanes and tapers. The desirable requirements for
lengths of acceleration lanes and tapers are based on the speed limit of the
road, and are as follows:
 
Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Acceleration Lane Taper Length
40                   135               190
45                   300               210
50                   470               230
55                   660               250
 
      (5)   Left turn deceleration and storage lanes. The desirable
requirements for lengths of tapers and storage for left turn lanes are based on
the speed limit of the road, and are as follows:
 
Posted Speed of Roadway (m.p.h.) Length of Taper Length of Storage
30                               150             100
35                               170             105
40                               190             135
45                               210             165
50                               230             195
55                               250             210
 
      (6)   Alternate storage lengths for left turn lanes. Storage lengths for
left turn lanes may be calculated in lieu of using the above tables by one of
the following methods:
         (a)   At unsignalized intersections, the storage length, exclusive of
taper, may be based on the number of turning vehicles which are likely to
arrive in an average two-minute period within the peak hour, that is, storage
length (in feet) = 2 x 25 (average vehicle length) x number of left turning
vehicles in peak hour - by 60.
         (b)   At signalized intersections, the storage length may be based on
the signal cycle length, the signal phasing arrangement, and the rate of
arrivals and departures of left turning vehicles. The storage length should be
based on 1.5 to 2 times the average number of vehicles that would store per
cycle to allow for occasional surges.
      (7)   Minimum lengths for tapers and turn lanes. The minimum acceptable
length for any turn storage length shall be 50 feet, and the minimum acceptable
length for any deceleration taper shall be 150 feet.
      (8)   Bypass lanes. A bypass lane should be provided for left turns when
a median or adequate pavement width does not exist. It is encouraged that the
pavement widening be on both sides of the existing pavement to provide a smooth
and safe transition. The taper shall be based on the formula: turn lane = speed
x width of lateral movement.
      (9)   Exceptions. Turn lane provisions (left and right) may be imposed
unless roadway cross section, right-of-way width, or deficient frontage
prohibit compliance.
      (10)   Reverse curves. Reverse curves should be used in place of straight
tapers on curb and gutter sections.
   (D)   Minimum standards for right-of-way improvements.
      (1)   It is the intent of the city that every new lot, residential
development or commercial development construct its portion of the city's
pedestrian system. Where an industrial development abuts the right-of-way,
construction of the pedestrian system will be the responsibility of the
property owner or developer.
      (2)   Only where an industrial development abuts the right-of-way will
construction of the pedestrian system be the responsibility of the property
owner or developer unless such responsibility is waived by the City Commission.
      (3)   Sidewalks are to be normally constructed adjacent to the street
right-of- way line with a minimum separation between the sidewalk and the edge
of pavement of four feet. Where this separation is not possible within the
right-of-way, every effort will be made to locate the sidewalk on an easement
on private property or otherwise achieve the desired separation. If it is not
possible to maintain the minimum separation, sidewalks may be constructed
adjacent to a raised standard curb. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet
in width. In no case shall a sidewalk be constructed adjacent to a Miami curb
or ribbon curb. Other items which conflict with the sidewalk location, such as
utility structures, shall be relocated at the developer's or utility's expense.
      (4)   Streets.
         (a)   Paving. Abutting rights-of- way shall be paved as hereinafter
specified. A minimum of one paved access on public rights-of-way shall be
provided to connect to the existing network of paved streets. Improvement of
existing streets to meet the following criteria may be required for this
access. More than one paved access may be required or allowed if it is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and the level of service required, and
current traffic studies demand it.
         (b)   Streets shall be classified based on the definitions, and with
consideration of vehicle trip generation ratios unless superceded by
alternative ratios adopted by the City Commission. Where the City Commission
has adopted a higher classification than the classifications based on projected
traffic volumes, the higher classification shall be used. All streets shall be
designed in accordance with the "Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for
Design, Construction, and Maintenance for Streets and Highways" and the
following minimum specifications, and improved in accordance with this
appendix, except that greater requirements must be met when imposed by an
agency having jurisdiction of a particular road.
 
              Arterial St. Commercial    Collector St. Local St. Residential
                           Collector St.                         Frontage Roads
Minimum
right-of-
way:
Closed
Drainage      100          60            60            50        50
(feet)
Open Drainage 120          80            80            70        70
(feet)
Percent grade
of roadway
centerline:
Maximum       6            8             8             10        10
Minimum       0.30         0.30          0.30          0.24      0.24
 
         (c)   Dedication of additional right-of-way. On any arterial or
collector street within a minimum of 150 feet, or as required, of its
intersection with another arterial or collector, or at any other location where
provisions of this appendix require additional right-of-way, the right- of-way
shall be increased by at least ten feet or as required, to permit proper design
of auxiliary lanes and tapers. This additional right-of-way shall be dedicated
or conveyed as a public right-of-way easement.
         (d)   Pave to nearest paved public road. A development shall abut or
have as its primary access, a street paved to city standards. This street shall
be paved by the developer from the entrance of the development to the nearest
public paved road of proper functional classification.
   (E)   (1)   Additional right-of-way and pavement width. May be required by
the City Commission to promote public safety and convenience or to ensure
adequate access, circulation, and parking. Whenever the Comprehensive Plan
shows a need for an increase in the level of service of a street within the
area to be developed, the appropriate right-of-way and pavement shall be
required. Where a development abuts or contains an existing street of
inadequate right-of-way or pavement width, additional right-of-way and pavement
in conformance with minimum city standard shall be required to be dedicated.
      (2)   Where a previously dedicated incomplete street, improved or
unimproved, abuts or is within a tract to be developed, the remainder of the
right-of-way shall be dedicated and the full street improved according to city
standards.
      (3)   Right-of-way requirements shall be based upon a 20-year planning
period according to the most current official city transportation plan as may
be adopted. All rights-of-way shall be transferred to the city by means of a
recorded deed, or by dedication on a plat, in the city’s discretion. If the
city right-of-way is part of a subdivision being platted, the right-of-way may
be dedicated to the city on the plat. All other transfers of right-of-way shall
be by deed.
      (4)   On divided two-lane roads (boulevards), minimum pavement widths for
each lane shall be 14 feet, exclusive of curbs and gutters. On four-lane roads,
minimum lane widths shall be 12 feet each, with provisions for left-turn
storage, acceleration, deceleration, tapers, or channels as the required level
of service and current traffic studies may demand.
      (5)   Whenever an island is proposed in the center of a cul-de-sac
turnaround the pavement shall be 24 feet, exclusive of curbs.
   (F)   Development on railroads or limited access highways. Where a
development abuts or contains a railroad right-of-way, limited access highway,
or arterial street, the City Commission may require that the developer provide
a street that shall be approximately parallel to and on each side of the right-
of- way. The street shall be located at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of the intervening land, including park purposes in residential districts
or commercial and industrial uses in appropriately zoned districts. The
separation of the street from the adjoining right-of-way shall be determined
with due regard for the requirements of approach grades, future grade
separations, and signalization.
   (G)   Access. Access shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Minimum number of access points to adequately serve the
development.
      (2)   Tapers, deceleration lanes, left-turn lanes, bypass lanes, median
modifications, or other design features will be required, as demanded by the
required level of service and current traffic studies, to protect the safe and
efficient operation of the access street.
      (3)   In order to provide ease and convenience in ingress and egress to
private property and the maximum safety with the least interference to the
traffic flow on public streets, classified collectors, and above, the number
and location of driveways shall be regulated by the dedication of access rights
to the city.
         (a)   Permits. The following permits are required prior to initiating
access way construction.
            1.   A Department of Transportation driveway permit is required for
all proposals to access state roads.
            2.   A county driveway or access permit is required for all
proposals to access the county road system.
            3.   A county permit is required for road construction purposes in
the county's right-of-way.
            4.   No city permit is required if construction is incident to the
installation of required subdivision or site plan improvements.
         (b)   Access limitations.
            1.   No new residential development shall create any parcels zoned
for single-family or duplex residential uses having access on an arterial.
            2.   Parcels created after adoption of this chapter building on an
arterial street, or collector, shall have a minimum of 300 linear frontage feet
in order to gain access to the arterial, unless one of the following conditions
is met:
               a.   Access to the lot is provided jointly through existing cuts
of an adjacent property.
               b.   Access to the lots is to be provided from a frontage road
paralleling the arterial which has been planned and officially approved by the
City Commission.
               c.   For corner parcels access will be provided to the collector
facility where only minimum arterial frontage requirements are satisfied.
   (H)   Minimum design standards. All streets which are to be established
within a subdivision shall meet the following minimum design standards.
      (1)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the applicant shall provide one or more of the following:
reverse frontage lots with a planting screen contained in a non- access
reservation along the rear property lines, deep lots with rear service alleys,
fences, or any other treatment necessary for adequate protection of residential
properties, and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
      (2)   Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. Street jogs at intersections with centerline offsets of less than
150 feet shall be prohibited. Multiple intersections involving the juncture of
more than two streets shall be prohibited. A minimum sight distance of 200 feet
from any intersection shall be maintained on the intersecting streets. This
requirement shall not be construed as requiring an increase in the minimum
allowable intersection separation of 150 feet.
      (3)   For minimum pavement widths, types and thicknesses, see division
(I).
      (4)   For minimum right-of-way width, see division (D).
      (5)   The minimum distance between reverse curves is 320 feet.
      (6)   The minimum centerline radii for horizontal curves, required where
centerline deflection angle exceeds 2 degrees, are as follows:
 
Type of Street        Radii (feet)
Arterial              600
Commercial Collector  200
Residential Collector 100
Local                 75
 
      (7)   Vertical curves are required on all streets where vertical grade
changes exceed 0.5%.
      (8)   For percent grade of roadway centerline, see division (I).
      (9)   Cul-de-sacs.
         (a)   Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 800 feet in length,
including the turnaround, without special approval of the City Commission where
due to unusual circumstance, a greater length may be deemed necessary. Said
approval shall be conditioned upon the provision of an alternative route of
ingress and egress for the entire length of the cul-de-sac street in order to
ensure that each potential development lot or parcel is alternatively
accessible. Where no practicable alternative access is available additional
roadway width and/or laneage may be required as deemed necessary to ensure
public safety.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs shall be provided with a turnaround having a minimum
outside roadway diameter of 80 feet, and a minimum street property line
diameter of at least 106 feet for streets with closed drainage, or 126 feet for
streets with open drainage (swales). All cul-de-sacs shall be designed in such
a manner that they shall not interfere with the turning radius of fire
apparatus. Variations of these measurements may be granted upon review and
approval by the City Commission.
      (10)   Street stubs to adjoining unplatted areas shall be provided when
required to give access to these areas or to provide for proper traffic
circulation. Street stubs in excess of 250 feet shall be provided with a
temporary cul-de-sac turnaround. The developer of the adjoining area shall pay
the cost of restoring the street to its original design cross-section,
extending the street.
      (11)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where a previously
platted half street, improved or unimproved, abuts a tract to be subdivided.
The second half of the street shall be platted within the tract being
subdivided and improved as required.
      (12)   Street names shall not be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. However, new streets which are an extension
of, or in alignment with, existing streets shall bear the same name as that
borne by the existing streets. All courts and circles shall have one name only.
All names shall be approved by the City Commission.
      (13)   Alleys shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 20 feet.
   (I)   Standards.
      (1)   Improvements shall conform to the following:
         (a)   Standard A, for industrial subdivisions.
         (b)   Standard B, for commercial or high-density residential
subdivisions of nine dwelling units per gross acre.
         (c)   Standard C, for medium- density residential subdivisions of four
or more but less than nine dwelling units per gross acre.
         (d)   Standard D, for low-density residential subdivisions of less
than four dwelling units per gross acre.
      (2)   Where the proposed subdivision includes or abuts an existing
platted street, the street shall also be improved as required to conform to
this schedule. This requirement shall not apply to any abutting street which is
not connected with the proposed subdivision's street system unless lots in the
proposed subdivision front on the streets.
      (3)   Street improvements shall be provided as required by the following
schedule.
         (a)   Grading and centerline gradients.
            1.   Maximum allowable percent grade.
      A         6
      B         8
      C   D      10
            2.   Minimum allowable percent grade.
      A   B      0.30
      C   D      0.24
A B C D (b)   Arterial streets. Two 24-foot pavements with a minimum 16-foot
median. The developer shall be required to install the second 24-foot pavement
only in large subdivisions where the projected average daily traffic generated
on the arterial by the subdivision exceeds 7,000.
   (c)   Collector streets.
A      1.   Thirty-six foot minimum pavement width.
B      2.   Thirty-six-foot minimum pavement.
C D       3.   Twenty-four-foot minimum pavement.
   (d)   Local streets.
A      1.   Thirty-six foot minimum pavement width.
B C D      2.   Twenty-four-foot pavement.
A B C D (e)   Marginal access streets. Twenty four-foot pavement.
A B C D (f)   Curb and gutters.
      1.   Type A, B, C, or D curb. (see Figure 1. All streets shall have curb
and gutter or ribbon curb for edge protection, and swales shall have Type C
curb for edge protection.
      2.   Type A, B, or C curb may be used in somewhat poorly drained to very
poorly drained soils.
      3.   Any drainage crossing at an intersection must have the design
approved by the city. If approved by the city, concrete valley gutters shall be
required for surface drainage across intersections or street pavements.
A B C D (g)   Swales. With or without a type C curb as pavement-edge
protection. Type C curb as a pavement-edge protection may be required in
applications or locations where traffic conditions warrant its use as
determined by the City Commission. Type C curb is required as a minimum at all
curves having less than a 75- foot radius. Type C curb is required for Standard
A streets.
   (h)   Subgrade.
A B      Subgrade shall be 12 inches thick and stabilized to a bearing of 75
p.s.i.
C D      Subgrade shall be ten inches thick and stabilized to a bearing value
of 75 p.s.i.
   (i)   Pavement base. Limerock preferred for curbed streets with a closed
drainage system and where groundwater conditions will satisfy the permit. Soil
cement is preferred for roads without a closed drainage system.
A B C D    1.   Arterials. Eight-inch compacted limerock or soil cement, or the
equivalent, approved by the City Engineer as meeting standards established by
the City Commission.
      2.   Collector, local, and marginal-access streets.
A B         a.   Eight-inch compacted limerock or soil cement or the equivalent
as approved by the City Engineer, and meeting standards established by the City
Commission.
C D         b.    Six-inch compacted limerock or soil cement or the equivalent
as approved by the City Engineer, and meeting standards established by the City
Commission.
A B C D (j)   Wearing surface.
      1.   On all arterial and collector roadways and all roadways in
commercial or industrial subdivisions, the wearing surface shall be constructed
no less than two inches thick in any place with a tolerance of one-fourth inch.
      2.   On all local and residential roadways, the wearing surface shall be
constructed no less than one and one-half (1-1/2) inches thick in any place
with a tolerance of one- fourth (1/4) inch and an absolute minimum thickness of
one and one-quarter (1- 1/4) inches compacted thickness.
A B C D (k)   Grassing, mulching, or sodding. As required by the City
Commission for swales, parkway medians, percolation areas, easements, drainage
outlets, and stream bank and planting strips, in accordance with current city
standards.
A B C D (1)   Street names signs. At all intersections, street name signs shall
be the equivalent or better with respect to legibility and durability, and
approved by the City Commission.
A B C D (m)   Minimum lateral clearance to roadside obstruction shall be six
feet from edge of pavement.
A B C D (n)   Street trees. Street trees shall be the responsibility of the
builder, and shall be planted prior to final inspection of the building.
A B C D (o)   Street lighting. Per plans approved by the city, and acceptable
to the utility company which will maintain the system.
A B C D (p)   All street and drainage improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the city's street construction specifications, or if none have
been adopted, in accordance with the materials and construction methods
outlined in the State Department of Transportation, "Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction," latest edition.
A B C D (q)   For two years from issuance of the certificate of completion, the
developer shall be responsible for the maintenance of all facilities in public
rights-of-way and easements.
   (J)   Curb and gutter. All streets shall have curb and gutters or ribbon
curb for edge protection, and swales shall have a Type C curb for edge
protection.
      (1)   The width of the curb and gutter shall be as shown in Figure 1.
Simple vertical curbing will not be acceptable to the city. Approved
surmountable median curb State Department of Transportation-type may be used
around median dividers on the high side of pavement. All curbing designed to
handle water shall incorporate an approved gutter design. There shall be a
stabilized subgrade beneath all curbs and one foot beyond the back of curb.
      (2)   No water valve boxes, meters, manholes, or other appurtenances of
any kind relating to any underground utilities shall be located in any portion
of a curb and gutter section.
      (3)   The minimum allowable flow line grade of curbs and gutter shall be
0.24%, except in intersections where flatter grades shall be allowable. The
tolerance for ponded water in curb construction is one-fourth inch maximum; if
exceeded, the section of curb shall be removed and reconstructed to grade.
      (4)   Plastering shall not be permitted on the face of the curb. Joints
shall be sawed (unless an approved alternate method is used) at intervals of
ten feet, except where shorter intervals are required for closures, but, in no
case, less than four feet.
      (5)   After concrete has set sufficiently, but, in no case, later than
three days after construction, the curbs shall be backfilled.
      (6)   All cross-street valley gutters where allowed by the city shall be
constructed of concrete.
   (K)   Swales. Swales are to be encouraged and used, based on functional
classification, in excessively-drained and somewhat excessively-drained to
moderately well-drained soils, except where closed drainage is required in this
appendix.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 344, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 640, passed
6-3-93; Am. Ord. 959, passed 12-2-99; Am. Ord. 1642, passed 6-17-21) Penalty,
see §
23
§ 3 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Geotechnical investigations prior to construction. The developer shall
submit a soils report including soil borings at a maximum interval along street
centerlines of 500 feet. The minimum depth of boring shall be five feet below
profile grade, or two feet below the storm or sanitary sewer, whichever is
greater. Not less than two borings shall be taken per street. American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials soils
classifications, gradation, determination of water table elevation (24- hour
test), and anticipated wet/dry season fluctuation shall be included in the
report.
   (B)   Clearing and grading of rights-of- way. The developer shall clear all
rights- of-way and recovery areas, which shall conform to minimum standards,
according to the "Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design, Construction,
and Maintenance for Streets and Highways," prepared by the State Department of
Transportation, in accordance with F.S. § 335.075. Trees may be selectively
cleared away from the recovery area, and all grades, including grades for
streets, alleys, and drainage, shall be consistent to grades approved for the
subdivision. All debris shall be moved from rights-of-way.
   (C)   Subgrade.
      (1)   All unstable materials, such as muck, peat, plastic clays, or marls
shall be removed from roadbed areas. The areas then shall be backfilled with
suitable material, and the subgrade stabilized to a depth of ten inches or
twelve inches depending upon the functional classification of the street below
the base course, to 75 pounds per square inch bearing value. The materials to
be added for stabilization, if needed, shall be either high bearing soil, sand
clay, ground limerock, or any other material which is suitable. Muck shall not
be used. For rural sections, subgrade shall be stabilized to include the entire
width of both shoulders. Where curb and gutter are utilized, subgrade shall be
stabilized underneath curb and for a distance of one foot beyond the back edge
of curbs.
      (2)   Written test results, taken by a competent testing laboratory,
shall be submitted giving bearing value sufficient to obtain uniform results
for each and every type of soil appearing in the roadbed at least every 250
feet, or at random location designated by the City Inspector.
      (3)   After the subgrade is mixed, brought to grade, and ready for the
base course construction, it shall be tested for density. Written test results
by a competent testing laboratory shall be submitted showing not less than 98%
modified maximum density for samples taken not more than every 250 feet apart
alternating from side to center, thence to opposite side and back to center;
or, in addition, wherever the City Inspector may require. The City Inspector
must be present when the samples are taken.
      (4)   Separate test results will be required if stabilization is
performed under curb areas separately from stabilization of the roadbed.
   (D)   Base courses.
      (1)   Base courses acceptable to the city shall be eight inches thick for
all arterial streets, all collector streets, and all streets in a commercial or
industrial subdivision, and six inches thick for residential and local streets.
      (2)   Base courses shall consist of compacted Ocala limerock or soils
cement. Base courses shall extend six inches beyond edge of paving where curb
and gutter is omitted.
         (a)   Limerock base courses.
            1.   This base course, including the materials to be used, shall be
constructed in accordance with the latest applicable State Department of
Transportation specifications, and shall be compacted in one layer if six
inches thick, or two layers if eight inches thick.
            2.   Following compaction, written test results completed by an
independent testing laboratory shall be submitted to the City Inspector showing
not less than 98% modified maximum density (as determined by the American
Association of State Highway Officials Specification T-180) for samples taken
not more than every 250 feet apart, alternating from side to center, or, in
addition, wherever the City Inspector may require. The City Inspector must be
present when the samples are taken.
            3.   Tests shall be required for each layer if construction is in
two layers. The contractor shall make borings in areas designated by the City
Inspector to enable measurement of thickness.
            4.   Finished limerock base courses shall be primed without delay,
and continuously maintained free of damage until the wearing surface is
applied. The wearing surface shall be applied immediately upon completion, but,
in no case, later than 15 days.
         (b)   Soil cement base course.
            1.   The composition and consistency of this base course shall be
under the design and construction supervision of a competent commercial
engineering and testing laboratory which shall have an engineer registered in
this state as one of the responsible officials of the laboratory. Design mix
and test results shall be submitted to the City Engineer prior to construction.
Sufficient mixing shall be performed to produce a homogeneous mix of uniform
color, and a City Inspector shall be called and inspection shall be made prior
to commencing mixing operations.
            2.   Soil cement base courses shall not be constructed until after
subgrade construction has been completed and required subgrade test results
have been submitted in writing and approved by the City Inspector.
            3.   The finished base course shall be primed without delay,
protected from heavy traffic, and continuously maintained free of damage until
the wearing surface is applied. If not barricaded, and light traffic is
permitted over the completed and primed base course, it shall be sanded
sufficiently to prevent pickup. All bad areas shall be cut out and replaced.
            4.   Assuming acceptable curing, the wearing surface shall be
applied no sooner than seven days and no later than 30 days after completion.
            5.   The contractor shall make borings in areas designated by the
City Inspector to enable measurement of thickness.
   (E)   Wearing surface.
      (1)   The material used for the wearing surface shall be a State
Department of Transportation asphaltic concrete mix or State Department of
Transportation modifications thereof, having a Jubbard-Field Stability or
Marshall Stability, in accordance with State Department of Transportation
specifications, of not less than 2,000 pounds. See Section (I), Standards for
wearing surface thickness. On all streets the wearing surface shall be
constructed at twice the largest aggregate size used in the mix. Ponded water
due to paving inaccuracies shall be limited to a water depth of no greater than
one-fourth inch. Ponding in excess of this depth shall require correction.
      (2)   A certified copy of the design mix shall be filed with the city,
stating the type of design stability of the product used.
      (3)   The completed road shall be guaranteed by a maintenance bond for a
period of two years.
   (F)   Friction course.
      (1)   On arterial and major collector streets, pavements shall be
designed and constructed so as to maintain adequate skid resistance. A durable
skid resistant surface texture shall be incorporated in the pavement to allow
for adequate friction capabilities between the vehicle tires and the roadway
surface. The friction courses allowed for use are FC-1, FC-2, and FC-4 as
directed by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The required materials, composition, job mix formula, plant and
equipment shall conform to the latest Florida Department of Transportation's
Specification for Road and Bridge Construction.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
DRIVEWAYS AND CURBCUTS
§ 4 GENERAL.
   (A)   Except where specific approval is granted by the city due to unique
and peculiar circumstances or needs resulting from the size or location of
property requiring a modification of standards as set forth below, the minimum
standards for the construction of driveway approaches, curbcuts, and other
similar access points shall be as follows in §§ 5 through 15.
   (B)   All driveways within public rights- of-way shall conform to the
following:
      (1)   All driveways shall be required to have Type I or 2500 p.s.i.
strength.
      (2)   Expansion joints shall be placed every ten feet.
      (3)   All site preparation, i.e., clearing, leveling, etc., shall be
completed before concrete pouring begins.
      (4)   Driveways shall accommodate existing drainage conditions.
      (5)   Restoration to the right-of-way will be the responsibility of the
contractor.
      (6)   Traffic control, i.e., signs, flagmen, barricades, etc., will be
provided by the contractor.
      (7)   Thickness of all driveways shall be a minimum of six inches with
wire mesh reinforcement.
      (8)   In addition to specific criteria related to widths and curb cuts as
defined in § 5 of this Appendix, driveways shall have a minimum width of ten
feet within the right-of-way with a 16-foot curb cut.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 454, passed 8-17-89; Am. Ord. 640, passed
6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 5 WIDTH.
   (A)   Residential. In properties developed for residential use, curbcuts and
driveway approaches shall conform to the following requirements:
 
                        Minimum Curbcut (feet) Minimum Driveway Width (feet)
Single driveway         16                     10
Double driveway, multi- 24                     18
family
Double driveway, other  22                     16
residential
Joint-use driveway      24                     18
 
   (B)   Commercial. Properties developed for commercial use shall have
curbcuts for driveways not less than 24 feet nor more than 36 feet wide, except
that where separate driveways are provided for one-way traffic, then those
driveway approaches may be permitted with a width of not less than 16 feet
based on a straight line transition.
   (C)   Measurement rules. In measuring the width of curbcuts, the distance
shall include the transitional slope, radius, or straight line, as applicable,
from the high curb line to the lowest point of the curbcut.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 6 DISTANCE FROM DRAINAGE INLET.
   No curbcut shall be made within three feet of a drainage inlet.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 7 SPACING.
   (A)   For all driveways except those serving single family residences,
minimum spacing between two-way driveways fronting on the same side of a street
shall conform to the table below, based upon functional classification. Minimum
distance between driveways serving single family residences is addressed in
Subsection 13 below. Distance is measured at the property line, from the
nearest edge of the driveway to the nearest edge of the adjacent driveway.
Minimum driveway separation is as follows:
 
Type Roadway     Minimum Separation
Arterials        330 feet
Major collectors 330 feet
Minor collectors 200 feet
Local streets    100 feet
Cul-de-sac       50 feet
 
   (B)   Distances between adjacent one-way driveways with the inbound drive
upsteam from the downstream drive can be one-half the distances shown above.
   (C)   Driveways on opposite sides of any undivided street classified
collector or arterial shall either be aligned on the same centerline or be
offset a minimum of 200 feet measured from centerline to centerline.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed
8-1-02)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 8 DRIVEWAY SIGHT DISTANCE.
   (A)   Driveway approaches must be so designed and located that an existing
vehicle will have an unobstructed sight distance (exclusive of tree trunks, and
posts or columns less than one foot in diameter) in accordance with the
following schedule:
 
Design Speed (m.p.h.) Sight Distance (feet)
25                    150
30                    175
35                    225
40                    275
45                    325
50 or more            350
 
   (B)   The sight distance shall be measured from the centerline of the
driveway.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 9 CLOSING OF EXISTING CURBCUTS.
   Whenever a driveway or curbcut is permitted in accordance with the
requirements of this appendix, other access rights along the remaining
thoroughfare frontage shall be dedicated to the city, and all other preexisting
driveways and curbcuts shall be closed and eliminated.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 10 NUMBER AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Midblock properties. Except where specific approval is granted as
provided above, there shall be no more than two curbcuts for the use of any
single property fronting any single local street, and no more than one curbcut
for the use of any single property fronting on any single thoroughfare.
   (B)   Corner properties. Where property is located on a corner lot fronting
more than one street, not more than one curb cut for the benefit of the
property shall be made on each street, except where specific approval is
granted by the City Commission. Curb cuts or driveways on collector and
arterial streets shall be constructed to maintain a minimum separation of 330
feet from the point of curvature of the corner radius of the collector or
arterial street. Curb cuts or driveways on local streets shall not be less than
50 feet from the point of curvature of the corner radius on the local road.
Reference § 22 for variances from this subsection.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93; Am. Ord. 1060, passed
4-18-02)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 11 VEHICLE STANDING IN RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   Driveways shall be so arranged, constructed, and maintained that
automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other vehicles will not stand upon any part
of the sidewalk or parkway at any time when the same are being loaded,
unloaded, serviced, or parked.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 12 SIDEWALK SECTION.
   (A)   All driveway approaches constructed in the city shall contain a
sidewalk section of the width, grade, and minimum construction standards
established by the city for sidewalks in that area, except where the distance
between the street and the right-of-way line is ten feet or less, in which case
the driveway will be sloped from the right- of-way line to the street.
   (B)   All sidewalks within the city rights-of-way or adjacent sidewalk
easements shall conform to the following:
      (1)   Concrete shall be at least Type I or 2500 p.s.i. strength.
      (2)   Minimum thickness shall be four inches except at driveways and
traffic hearing areas, then the thickness shall be six inches.
      (3)   Expansion joints shall be placed every 20 feet with construction
joints at all other five-foot intervals. A construction joint is a sawed or
tooled joint at least ¾-inch deep from the top of the sidewalk and crossing the
full width of the sidewalk. Construction joints are to control the cracking
effects of concrete expansion and shrinkage.
      (4)   Minimum width shall be 60 inches except when conforming with
existing sidewalks or at the Public Works Director's discretion.
      (5)   All street and curb cuts shall be ramped to accommodate bicycles
and wheelchairs.
      (6)   Site preparation, i.e., clearing, leveling, etc., shall be
completed before concrete pouring begins.
      (7)   Restoration to the right-of-way will be the responsibility of the
contractor.
      (8)   Traffic control, i.e., signs, flagmen, barricades, etc., will be
provided by the contractor.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 454, passed 8-17-89; Am. Ord. 640, passed
6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 13 JOINT-USE DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   No curbcut for a driveway approach shall be made within three feet of
the extended side property line of the property to be serviced by the driveway,
unless a joint-use driveway for the two adjoining properties is located on the
common property line by written agreement running with the land, filed with the
city and signed by all the owners of the adjoining property using the common
driveway. The execution of the agreement must be acknowledged by all parties
executing it (notarized). Driveways on residential lots shall be allowed at
zero lot lines to encourage side entrance garages.
   (B)   The city shall be authorized to require the establishment of joint-use
driveways, cross-access easements, and frontage roads, in connection with the
reduction of the driveway spacing in accordance with the following guidelines.
   (C)   Access to arterial and collector streets. Properties fronting on
arterial or collector streets with less than 300 linear frontage feet should
have indirect access to the arterial or collector street by means of either
joint-use driveways or service roads, or in the case of corner parcels, by
access to the collector or the facility (if not an arterial) that intersects
the collector. The following conditions shall apply:
      (1)   When a parcel of property is located where there is no existing or
planned service road, and the planned use of the subject property is
incompatible with existing uses of abutting properties (such as, single-family
residential), or development of abutting properties is not anticipated, making
a joint use driveway undesirable, a temporary driveway with direct access to
the arterial or collector street, or, in the case of a corner parcel, to the
collector or the facility (if not an arterial) that intersects the collector
streets, will be allowed, provided that:
         (a)   Access rights to the parcel are dedicated to the city; and
         (b)   The necessary cross-access easement shall be conveyed to the
city, in order to provide for (d) below.
         (c)   When the use of an abutting property changes to a compatible
use, a joint-use driveway shall be provided by the owners of the abutting
property which use has changed, at a location approved by the City Commission,
and the temporary driveway discontinued (if not used as the joint-use
driveway); and
         (d)   Joint-use driveways, with required cross-access easements, serve
as many adjoining properties as necessary to maintain the minimum spacing of
driveways.
      (2)   When a parcel of property is located where there is no existing
service road, but a service road is planned, and the planned use of the subject
property is incompatible with existing uses of adjoining properties, (such as,
single-family residential), or the development of abutting properties is not
anticipated, making a joint-use driveway undesirable, a temporary driveway with
direct access to the arterial or collector street, or, in the case of a corner
parcel, to the collector or facility (if not an arterial) that intersects the
collector street, will be allowed, provided that:
         (a)   Access rights shall be dedicated to the city, and
         (b)   The necessary cross-access easement for the planned service road
shall be conveyed to the city; and
         (c)   When the use of an adjoining property changes to a compatible
use, a joint-use driveway shall be provided by the owners of the subject
property jointly with the owners of the adjoining property which use has
changed, at a location approved by the City Commission, and the temporary
driveway discontinued (if not used as the joint-use driveway); or
         (d)   When the use of two or more adjoining properties changes to
compatible uses, a service road, fronting the subject properties, shall be
provided by the owners of the subject properties, and the necessary cross-
access easement for the service road conveyed to the city, and access to the
subject properties shall be from the service road only; and the service road
shall access the arterial collector, or facility (if not an arterial)
intersecting the arterial or collector, at a location approved by the City
Commission.
      (3)   When a parcel of property is located where there is an existing
service road to the adjoining properties, an extension of the service road,
fronting the subject property, shall be provided by the owners of the subject
property and the necessary cross-access easement for the service road conveyed
to the city and access to the subject property shall be from the service road
only and the service road shall access the arterial or collector or a facility
(if not an arterial) intersecting the arterial or collector at a location
approved by the City Commission.
   (D)   Properties with 300 or more linear frontage feet.
      (1)   Properties fronting on collector or arterial streets with 300 or
more linear frontage feet where there are existing or planned service roads
shall have the same requirement as properties, with less than 300 linear
frontage feet.
      (2)   Properties fronting on arterial or collector streets with 300 or
more linear frontage feet where there are no existing or planned service roads
shall have the spacing of adjacent driveways regulated as listed under spacing.
If those spacing requirements cannot be met, joint-use driveways shall be
required as listed under joint use driveways.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 14 AUTHORITY TO ALTER CURBCUTS.
   (A)   Where the use, convenience, and necessity of the public require, the
City Commission shall have the authority to order the owners, or agents in
charge of property adjacent to which curbcuts are maintained, to alter the
curbcut in a manner as he shall find reasonably necessary under the
circumstances.
   (B)   The notice required by this section shall:
      (1)   Require compliance by permittee within 30 days notice;
      (2)   Be in writing; and
      (3)   Be served upon permittee as required by law.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
§ 15 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL DRIVEWAYS AND INTERNAL CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Vehicular circulation must be completely contained within the
property, except where joint use occurs. Vehicles located within one portion of
the development must have access to all portions without using the adjacent
street system.
   (B)   Acceptable plans must illustrate that proper consideration has been
given to the surrounding street plan, traffic volumes, proposed street
improvements, vehicular street capacities, pedestrian movements, and safety.
   (C)   No driveway shall intersect the radius return of an intersection.
   (D)   A taper or deceleration lane may be required on roads with a
functional classification of collector or higher, or design speeds of 30 m.p.h.
or greater (see §
2(C)).
   (E)   Appropriate special radii shall be designed, subject to the approval
of the City Engineer, for other than right-angle intersections.
   (F)   Six-inch by 16-inch vertical concrete curbing or an approved equal
shall be required along the perimeter of all paved areas within the proposed
project where deemed necessary for drainage or traffic control. A top of curb
height of six inches above the pavement shall be maintained.
   (G)   Internal pavement sections shall be composed of 1-1/2-inch asphaltic
concrete, six-inch limerock or soil cement base, and eight-inch stabilized
subbase for automobile traffic. For all other vehicular traffic, a pavement
section of 1-1/2-inch asphaltic concrete, eight-inch limerock or soil cement
base, and a ten- or twelve-inch stabilized subbase shall be required, or as
specified by State Department of Transportation.
   (H)   Concrete pavement may be utilized in lieu of asphalt paving upon
submittal of an acceptable design thickness, which would generally be a minimum
of five inches for automobile traffic and six inches for other vehicles.
   (I)   The subbase shall have a maximum density of 95% and a bearing value of
75%. All materials used shall be in accordance with the latest applicable State
Department of Transportation specifications.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
BLOCKS AND CROSSWALKS
§ 16 GENERAL.
   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
   (A)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of
the type of use contemplated.
   (B)   Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions.
   (C)   Need for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street
and pedestrian traffic, and fire protection.
   (D)   Limitations and opportunities of topography, with special emphasis on
drainage of the proposed subdivision and the possible adverse effects of that
drainage on properties surrounding the subdivisions.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 17 BLOCK LENGTH.
   Block length shall not exceed 1,400 feet nor be less than 500 feet between
intersecting streets, except that the City Commission may, where special
conditions exist, approve blocks of greater or lesser length.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 18 PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrian crosswalks, where used, shall be in accordance with the State
Department of Transportation "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices."
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
LOTS
§ 19 GENERAL.
   The lot size, width, depth, shape, orientation, and the building setback
lines shall be appropriate for the location, the type of development, and the
use contemplated. Lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
§ 20 DIMENSIONS.
   Lot dimensions will be determined by the particular land use and building
size proposed, and the street access. The development of the land shall be such
as to provide each lot, by means of a street or accessway, with satisfactory
and permanent access to an existing public street. Where automobiles backing
onto adjacent roadways from driveways are anticipated to present a potential
traffic flow or safety problem, the city may require provisions, such as
turnaround areas or horseshoe driveways, or other access-control measures as
deemed necessary. Lots not having full frontage on a street shall have an
access way of at least a 40-foot width for commercial, a 25-foot width for
residential, and suitable for access by emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
§ 21 DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Double-frontage lots shall be permitted only where necessary to separate a
development from adjacent traffic arteries, to overcome disadvantage of
topography and orientation, or to limit individual driveway access where
necessary to preserve the carrying capacity of roadways. Where double-frontage
lots are created, they shall all front in the same direction. The rear of the
lots shall be screened from the abutting roadway by a wall of brick
construction six feet in height, and not nearer than one foot to the right-of-
way line. Access rights along the rear of these lots shall be dedicated to the
city by means of a note stating "Vehicular Access Rights Dedicated to the City
of Lake Mary" lettered on the final plat along the right-of-way line adjacent
to the lots affected.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 379, passed 6-2-88; Am. Ord. 640, passed
6-3-93)
Penalty, see § 23
VARIANCES AND PENALTY
§ 22 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Commission may grant variances from the provisions of this
regulation, which will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to
special conditions, it finds a literal enforcement of these provisions would
result in unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall be authorized to approve variances to §
10(B) for distance separation from the point of curvature of the corner radius
for curb cuts or driveways on low traffic volume local streets in single-family
residential developments. In no event shall the distance separation be reduced
by more than 15 feet. Each requested variance from the distance separation
requirements shall be evaluated considering street frontages, safety and
location on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93; Am. Ord. 1060, passed
4-18-02)
§ 23 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee, or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this appendix, or permits any
violation to continue, or otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of
this appendix, or of any plan or statement submitted and approved under these
provisions, is subject to prosecution. Upon conviction, the person shall be
fined not more than $500, or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both; and
in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. At the option of
the city, any violation may be processed through the city's Code Enforcement
Board as an alternative to prosecution under this section.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking other
lawful action, including, but not limited to, resort to equitable action, as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 640, passed 6-3-93)
Figure 1: Standard concrete curb diagrams
Figure 2: Corner clearances
[See hard copy of the Code for figures.]
APPENDIX B: OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING
Section
Off-Street Parking
   
1.   General provisions
   
2.   Off-street parking requirements
   
3.   Location of off-street parking spaces
   
4.   Parking garages
   
5.   Motorcycle spaces
   
6.   [Reserved.]
   
7.   Handicapped access
Off-Street Loading and Unloading
   
8.   General requirements
   
9.   Definition
   
10.   Criteria specified
Required Improvements for Parking and Loading Surfaces
   
11.   General provision
   
12.   Acceptable materials
   
13.   Use of stone for parking surfaces
   
14.   Bumpers, curbs, wheel stops, and barriers
   
15.   Wheel stop standards
   
16.   Access barriers
   
17.   Marking and signs indicating parking spaces
Unimproved Reservation of Required Parking Areas
   
18.   General requirements
   
19.   Required conditions for reservation
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following shall apply generally:
   (A)   Permanent reservation. Areas reserved for off-street parking or
loading in accordance with the requirements of this appendix shall not be
reduced in area or changed to any other use unless the permitted use which it
serves is discontinued or modified, except where equivalent parking or loading
space is provided.
   (B)   Determining required off-street parking and loading and unloading
spaces.
      (1)   When units or measurements determining the number of required off-
street parking and off-street loading spaces result in a measurement of a
fractional space, any fraction up to and including one-half shall be
disregarded and fractions over one-half shall require one off-street parking or
off-street loading space. However, this provision waiving fractional units of
measurement shall not apply to the first off-street loading and unloading
space.
      (2)   The space provided for loading and unloading purposes shall not be
construed as providing required off-street parking space.
   (C)   Parking study. A parking study, when required by this code, shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Estimates of parking requirements based on recommendations in
studies such as those from ULI, ITE, or the Traffic Institute, and based on
data collected from uses or combinations of uses which are the same or
comparable to the proposed use. Comparability shall be determined by density,
scale, bulk, area, type of activity and location. The study shall document the
source of data used to develop recommendations.
      (2)   An analysis of the extent to which a transportation system
management program and/or use of alternative forms of transportation lessen the
parking requirement.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 570, passed 10-3-91)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 2 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   At the time any building or structure generally occupied by persons
(employees, guests, customers, residents, tenants, or other such persons)
incident to the purpose for which the building or structure (manufacturing
facility, hotel or motel, wholesale or retail sales facility, office building,
commercial facility, multi-family or single-family dwelling--detached or
attached, or other such use) is constructed or such building or structure is
enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guest rooms, or
floor area, the site plan, plat, development agreement, or other such document
setting forth development requirements for the initial construction or
enlargement or increase in capacity shall be required to have a minimum number
of off-site parking spaces or off-site parking space with adequate provisions
for ingress and egress as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   For all uses, an off-street parking space shall consist of a minimum
net area of 171 feet with a minimum width of nine feet, and a minimum length of
19 feet, exclusive of access drives or aisles, driveways for ingress and
egress, pedestrian walkways, landscape breaks, landscape buffers, and drainage
retention facilities.
      (1)   Stalls for parking 90 degrees to centerline of aisle may be a
minimum of 17 feet in length to face of curb with the provision of an
additional two feet of grassed or mulched area beyond the curb. Any spaces
which are less than 19 feet in length must be curbed. This additional two feet
of open space shall not count toward the fulfillment of open space or buffer
requirements.
      (2)   All plantings six inches or higher shall be restricted to areas a
minimum of two feet back from the face of the curb where the parking stalls are
less than 19 feet deep.
   (C)   Dwelling structures.
      (1)   Single, duplex, and townhouse. Four spaces for each dwelling unit.
Two of the spaces shall be within a garage attached to the primary structure;
two of the spaces shall be within the driveway. Any provided driveway shall be
designed in a manner that cars can be parked without blocking an adjacent
sidewalk. Townhouses shall provide an additional .25 spaces per dwelling unit
for guests. Guest parking may be provided on-street or in an off-street parking
lot, if approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   A variance to the number of required parking spaces may be
granted by the City Commission from the above requirement through the process
and standards set out in §
154.06(A), if the following additional findings are made:
            1.   There is adequate public or private right-of-way available
whereby vehicles that may be parked within the road right-of-way would not
impede the two-way passage of a public safety vehicle. The determination of
adequacy shall be made by the Development Review Committee based on engineering
drawings provided by an applicant.
            2.   A dwelling unit has two or less bedrooms.
            3.   The project directly abuts a mass-transit stop. This includes
but is not limited to a bus stop or train station.
            4.   Permanent parking is available from an abutting property via a
cross-access easement or a lease. The application must include proof of
availability in the form of a notarized letter from the abutting property
owner. Before approval of the request, the applicant must submit the executed
easement or lease.
         (b)   If the project is zoned PUD, or is proposed to be zoned PUD, the
applicant must meet the parking requirements of this section, unless the
applicant demonstrates that the criteria in division (a) are met.
         (c)   Appeals from the City Commission's decision will be to the
Circuit Court.
      (2)   Multi-family (apartments). Two spaces per unit.
      (3)   Mobile homes. Two spaces for each mobile home.
      (4)   Hotels, motels, and hotel apartments.
         (a)   1.05 spaces for each guest room/rental unit; plus
         (b)   Seventy-five percent of the required parking for restaurants as
specified in section
2(C)(3) of this appendix if food and beverage facilities including, but not
limited to, restaurants, family restaurants or bars are provided on site; plus
         (c)   Fifty percent of the required parking for general business as
specified in section
2(C)(1) of this appendix for other commercial uses provided on site; plus
         (d)   One space per 60 square feet of meeting/conference/banquet area
in excess of 2,000 square feet.
      (4)   Rooming and boarding houses or dormitories. One space for each
bedroom.
      (5)   Retirement centers. One space per dwelling unit, plus parking as
may be required for accessory uses, in accordance with established standards.
   (D)   Commercial.
      (1)   General business or personal service establishments. One space for
each 250 square feet of gross floor area.
      (2)   Office uses.
         (a)   General office and medical uses. One space for each 250 square
feet of gross floor area.
      (3)   Restaurants or other eating establishments. One space for each two
and one-half seats. Plus one space for each employee on the largest shift.
      (4)   Furniture and appliance stores. One space for each 200 square feet
of gross floor area up to 10,000 square feet, and one space for each 600 square
feet over 10,000 square feet.
      (5)   Convenience stores. One space for each 100 square feet of gross
area.
      (6)   Service stations. Three spaces for each bay.
      (7)   Commercial not catering to the retail trade. One space for each two
employees on the largest shift, plus one space for each company vehicle
operating from the premises.
      (8)   Bowling alleys. Five spaces for each alley.
      (9)   Commercial recreation (skating rinks, miniature golf, go-cart
tracks, and the like). One space for each employee plus one space for each
three persons the facility is designed to accommodate.
      (10)   Flea markets. Three spaces for each table, counter, or booth.
      (11)   Shopping centers. One space for each 250 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (12)   Personal storage facilities/mini-warehouses. Six spaces, including
one handicapped space to be located in the vicinity of the office.
   (E)   Manufacturing. One space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.
   (F)   Warehouse.
      (1)   Construction-related storage material and equipment. One space for
each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial high stack/ dead storage. One space for each
4,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (G)   Hospitals, sanitariums, and convalescent homes. Two spaces for each
bed.
   (H)   Kennels and animal hospitals. Four spaces, plus one space for each 600
square feet of covered area over 3,000 square feet.
   (I)   Schools and public buildings. One space for each four seats in the
main auditorium or place of assembly.
   (J)   Theatres. One space for every three persons based on maximum occupancy
load as load as established by Fire Marshal, plus one space for every two
employees.
   (K)   Stadiums and arenas. One space for each five seats.
   (L)   Child care centers. One space for each employee, plus one space for
each ten clients.
   (M)   Libraries and museums. One space for each 200 feet of area open to the
public.
   (N)   Churches, temples, or places of worship. One space for every three
seats in the main auditorium
   (O)   Country, golf, and gun clubs. One space for each five members.
   (P)   Private clubs or lodges. One space for every three members.
   (Q)   Parking requirements for properties within the Downtown Development
District which have a zoning category of DC, Downtown Centre, are outlined in §
154.67, and not this section.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 364, passed 4-7-88; Am. Ord. 448, passed
8-17-89; Am. Ord. 493, passed 3-15-90; Am. Ord. 555, passed 8-15-91; Am. Ord.
576, passed 11-21-91; Am. Ord. 583, passed 1-16-92; Am. Ord. 635, passed 3-4-
93; Am. Ord. 823, passed 1-23-97; Am. Ord. 836, passed 4-3-97; Am. Ord. 870,
passed 2-19-98; Am. Ord. 1618, passed 3-5-20)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 3 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   When possible, parking spaces for all dwellings shall be located on
the same lot with the main building to be served.
   (B)   Parking spaces for other uses shall be provided on the same lot of not
more than 500 feet distance as measured along the nearest pedestrian walkway.
   (C)   Parking requirements for two or more uses, of the same or different
types, may be satisfied by the allocation of the required number of spaces of
each use in a common parking facility.
   (D)   Space requirements at various parking angles: Off-street parking areas
shall be so designed as to meet the minimum dimensions shown in the following
table:
Parking angle  Stall width  Stall to curb  Access aisle One- Curb length (feet)
(degrees)      (feet)       (feet)         way (feet)
Parking angle  Stall width  Stall to curb  Access aisle One- Curb length (feet)
(degrees)      (feet)       (feet)         way (feet)
0              10.0         10.0           12.0              22.0
30             9.0          17.3           12.0              18.0
40             9.0          19.1           13.0              14.0
45             9.0          19.8           13.0              12.7
50             9.0          20.3           13.0              11.8
60             9.0          21.0           18.0              10.3
70             9.0          20.9           18.0              9.6
80             9.0          20.3           24.0              9.1
90             9.0          19.0           24.0              9.0
 
   (E)   Minimum accessway shall be 12 feet for one-way traffic, and 24 feet
for two-way traffic.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 583, passed 1-16-92)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 4 PARKING GARAGES.
   (A)   Parking garage design standards. Parking garage structures shall
require specific approval of design features by the City Commission. Parking
garage structures shall be designed to resemble the primary building for which
they serve parking needs. Points of resemblance shall include architectural
design, exterior finish, and perimeter landscaping treatment subject to
specific landscaping requirements set forth in
Chapter 157, Landscape and Arbor Regulations. Internal lighting of the parking
garage shall be designed so as to minimize illumination visible from the
exterior of said garage.
   (B)   Parking space and aisle dimensions. As shown in division (D), these
standards provide a number of alternatives from which a developer may choose,
depending on the needs of the use being served. In designing a particular
parking garage, spaces and aisles may all be designed to the same standard, or
a mix of different sized spaces may be provided subject to the approval of the
city.
   (C)   Compact spaces. Up to 30 percent of the required parking spaces in any
parking garage may be designed as compact spaces in accordance with the
standards set forth in division (D). These spaces shall be prominently marked
and posted.
   (D)   Minimum parking space and aisle dimensions for parking facilities. All
parking spaces, aisles and modules shall conform to the following minimum
standards:
        Spaces                         Aisles         Modules
Parking Width       Depth to Depth to         Turning              Interlock to
Angle   Parallel to Wall     Interlock Width* Radius  Wall to Wall Interlock
        Aisle
        Spaces                         Aisles         Modules
Parking Width       Depth to Depth to         Turning              Interlock to
Angle   Parallel to Wall     Interlock Width* Radius  Wall to Wall Interlock
        Aisle
45°
8.5 ft. 12.0        17.5     15.3      13     30      48           44
space
9.0 ft. 12.7        17.5     15.3      12     30      47           43
space
9.5 ft. 13.4        17.5     15.3      11     29      46           42
space
60°
8.5 ft. 9.8         19.0     17.5      18     34      56           53
space
9.0 ft. 10.4        19.0     17.5      16     34      54           51
space
9.5 ft. 11.0        19.0     17.5      15     33      43           50
space
75°
8.5 ft. 8.3         19.5     18.8      25     36      64           63
space
9.0 ft. 9.3         19.5     18.8      23     36      62           61
space
9.5 ft. 9.8         19.5     18.8      22     35      61           60
space
90°
8.5 ft. 8.5         18.5     18.5      24     37      61           65
space
9.0 ft. 9.0         18.5     18.5      24     37      61           63
space
9.5 ft. 9.5         18.5     18.5      24     37      61           62
space
Compact Space -
90°**
7.5 ft. 7.5         17.0     17.0      24     37      58           58
space
*   Measured between ends of space lines.
**   Compact spaces are permitted in parking garages but prohibited in surface
parking lots.
 
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 635, passed 3-4-93; Am. Ord. 990, passed
8-3-00)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 5 MOTORCYCLE SPACES.
   In building sites containing at least 20 parking spaces, motorcycle parking
spaces may be provided in lieu of or in addition to automobile spaces in
accordance with the following standards:
   (A)   Minimum width, three feet.
   (B)   Minimum length, ten feet.
   (C)   All motorcycle parking shall be clearly identified through signs or
marking as reserved for motorcycles.
   (D)   Where motorcycle spaces are provided in lieu of automobile spaces, not
more than 2% of all automobile spaces or one space, whichever is greater, may
be so converted.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 6 [RESERVED].
§ 7 HANDICAPPED ACCESS.
   (A)   Access pathway. Access to each principal building shall be provided
from rights-of-way and parking areas by means of a pathway leading to at least
one entrance generally used by the public. This pathway shall be clear of all
obstructions related to construction activity, prior to the opening of the
building to the public. Where curbs exist along the pathway, as between a
parking lot surface and a sidewalk surface inclined curb approaches or curbcuts
having a gradient of not more than one foot in 12 feet, and a width of not less
than five feet, shall be provided for access by wheelchairs.
   (B)   Parking space reserved for handicapped. A parking lot servicing each
entrance pathway required by this appendix shall have level parking spaces
reserved for physically handicapped persons in the following amounts:
Total spaces in lot Required number of Reserved spaces
Total spaces in lot Required number of Reserved spaces
up to 25            1
26 to 50            2
51 to 75            3
76 to 100           4
101 to 150          5
151 to 200          6
201 to 300          7
301 to 400          8
401 to 500          9
501 and over        2% of total
 
   (C)   Design standards for reserved spaces. Reserved parking spaces shall be
not less than 12 feet in width, and shall be identified by above-grade signs as
being reserved for physically handicapped persons. An access aisle of not less
than five feet in width shall abut each handicapped parking space. These spaces
shall be located as close as possible to elevators, ramps, walkways, and
entrances. Parking spaces should be located so that physically handicapped
persons are not compelled to wheel or to walk behind parked cars to reach
entrances, ramps, walkways, and elevators. Handicapped access shall be provided
in accordance with F.S. Ch. 553, Part V.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 635, passed 3-4-93)
Penalty, see § 154.04
OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 8 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof erected
and occupied for manufacturing, storage warehouse, food processing or wholesale
distribution plant, goods display, department store, wholesale store, market,
hotel, office, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or other uses
similarly involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or
merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space
for maneuvering, standing, loading, and unloading services, in order to avoid
undue interference with the public use of the street and alleys. Wherever
possible and practical, off-street loading and unloading will not be visible
from the roadway.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 9 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§
8 and
10, the following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   SPACE. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or public way, the
principal use of which is for standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks,
tractors, and trailers. Such space shall not be less than 12 feet in width, 55
feet in length, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space. Each off-
street loading space shall be directly accessible from a street or alley
without crossing or entering any other required off-street parking or loading
space. Such loading space shall be accessible from the interior of the building
it serves and shall be arranged for convenient and safe ingress tractor-trailer
anticipated to use the facility. Loading zones re spaces and their maneuvering
areas shall be so designated and located as to permit trucks to enter and leave
any public right-of-way in a forward manner. Under no circumstances shall a
vehicle extend into or onto a public right-of-way while loading or unloading.
   (A)   Exception. Building of less than 5,000 quare feet gross floor area
have one loading space of less than 12 feet in width and 20 feet in length.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 870, passed 2-19-98)
§ 10 CRITERIA SPECIFIED.
   Every building or structure or part thereof, having an area 5,000 square
feet or more of gross floor area, and used for manufacturing, warehouse, food
processing or wholesale distribution, retail sales, office, institution,
service establishments, public buildings, restaurants, or other uses similarly
involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise,
shall have loading and unloading spaces provided in accordance with the
following guidelines:
 
Category                      Gross Floor Area Spaces Required
                              (square feet)
                                               1 space plus 1 space per
Retail Sales                  5,000 - 10,000   additional 25,000 square feet or
                                               fraction thereof
Manufacturing Service                          1 space plus 1 space per
Establishments Warehouse      5,000 - 20,000   additional 50,000 square feet of
                                               fraction thereof
Commercial Recreation                          1 space plus 1 space per
Institutions Public Buildings 5,000 - 50,000   additional 50,000 square feet of
                                               fraction thereof
                                               1 space plus 1 space per
Office                        5,000 - 150,000  additional 150,000 square feet
                                               of fraction thereof
 
   Hours of operation: Loading or unloading operations are prohibited between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday and between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays and when the
site abuts an existing conforming residential use, unless specifically allowed
by the Development Review Committee.
   An applicant may request a waiver of the number of spaces or the dimensions
or both, subject to providing the following information in the form of a
"Loading Demand Statement" to the Development Review Committee as part of the
development review package:
      1.   The typical size of the delivery trucks;
      2.   The average frequency of delivery trucks;
      3.   The normal hours of delivery;
      4.   The average general type of cargo delivered or picked up (or both,
as applicable);
      5.   The route of ingress, egress, and on-site maneuvering for the
delivery trucks;
      6.   Identification of any expected problems which may be encountered;
and
      7.   Any other factors the applicant deems significant to the safe
operation of the loading area.
   The Development Review Committee may waive the requirements for the number
and dimensions of loading/unloading zones if it determines that the applicant's
Loading Demand Statement adequately demonstrates that an alternative proposed
loading/unloading zone(s) will sufficiently service a site.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 870, passed 2-19-98)
Penalty, see § 154.04
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS FOR PARKING AND LOADING SURFACES
§ 11 GENERAL PROVISION.
   All parking lots, loading areas, and vehicular use areas shall have durable
all-weather surfaces with drainage and surface water control.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 12 ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS.
   A durable all-weather surface shall mean an improved surface of concrete,
brick, asphalt, permanent porous grating, or other permanent dust-free
surfaces; but shall not include wood chips or other material subject to decay.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 13 USE OF STONE FOR PARKING SURFACES.
   Stone may be used as a parking surface on a limited basis as an alternative
material in accordance with the following standards:
   (A)   The entire parking facility in which the stone surface is used shall
not consist of more than six parking spaces.
   (B)   To ensure that nuisances and safety hazards will not be created by the
spilling of stone onto sidewalks and streets, stone shall not be used on any
driveway or parking aisle within 15 feet of a street right-of-way.
   (C)   No limerock or similar material shall be used for stone surfaces.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 14 BUMPERS, CURBS, WHEEL STOPS, AND BARRIERS.
   Parking spaces at the perimeters of the parking lots shall be provided with
permanent curbs, bumpers, wheel stops, or similar devices sufficient to ensure
that parked vehicles do not overhang sidewalks, landscaped areas, or other
areas outside the parking lot, nor come in contact with walls, fences, or
buildings. The city may also require such devices in other locations where
necessary to protect planting, structures, or other areas from vehicular
encroachment.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 15 WHEEL STOP STANDARDS.
   The stopping edge shall be placed not less than two feet from the end of the
parking space, and so located that the wheels of a standard-sized car pulling
into the space will ordinarily come into contact with it.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 16 ACCESS BARRIERS.
   Improvements shall be provided as necessary to prevent ingress and egress at
any point other than designated driveways.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 17 MARKING AND SIGNS INDICATING PARKING SPACES.
   All parking spaces shall be marked on the pavement, except where stone
parking surfaces are used. Other directional information to assist traffic flow
shall be provided by either pavement marking or signs.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 154.04
UNIMPROVED RESERVATION OF REQUIRED PARKING AREAS
§ 18 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The city may authorize that required off-street parking spaces and vehicular
use areas remain as unimproved reserve area as follows.
   (A)   Parking deferral.
      (1)   To avoid requiring more parking spaces than actually needed to
serve a development, the City Commission may defer the provision of some
portion of the off-street parking spaces required by this code if the
conditions and requirements of this section are satisfied.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to obtaining a partial deferral by the
City Commission, the developer must show any one or more of the following:
         (a)   A parking study as defined in this appendix indicates that there
is not a present need for the deferred parking.
         (b)   Public transportation satisfies transportation demands for a
portion of the users of the facility that corresponds to the amount of parking
sought to be deferred.
         (c)   The developer has established or will establish an alternative
means of access to the use that will justify deferring the number of parking
spaces sought to be deferred. Alternative programs that may be considered by
the City Commission include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Private and public car pools and van pools;
            2.   Charging for parking;
            3.   Subscription bus services;
            4.   Flexible work-hour scheduling;
            5.   Capital improvement for transit services;
            6.   Ride sharing; or
            7.   Establishment of a transportation coordinator position to
implement car pool, van pool and transit programs.
         (d)   The percentage of parking spaces sought to be deferred
corresponds to the percentage of residents, employees and customers who
regularly walk, use bicycles and other non-motorized forms of transportation,
or use mass transportation to come to the facility.
      (3)   If the developer satisfies one or more of the criteria in
subdivision (2), the City Commission may approve a deferred parking plan
submitted by the developer. The number of parking spaces deferred shall
correspond to the estimated number of parking spaces that will not be needed
because of the condition or conditions established.
      (4)   A deferred parking plan:
         (a)   Shall be designed to contain sufficient space to meet the full
parking requirements of this code, shall illustrate the layout for the full
number of parking spaces, and shall designate which are to be deferred.
         (b)   Shall not assign deferred spaces to areas required for
landscaping, buffer zones, setbacks or areas that would otherwise be unsuitable
for parking spaces because of the physical characteristics of the land or other
requirements of this code.
         (c)   Shall include a landscaping plan for the deferred parking area.
         (d)   Shall include a written agreement with the city that, one year
from the date of issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the deferred spaces
will be converted to parking spaces that conform to this code at the
developer's expense should the City Commission determine from experience that
the additional parking spaces are needed.
         (e)   Shall include a written agreement that the developer will cover
the expense of a traffic study to be undertaken by the City Transportation
Engineer to determine the advisability of providing the full parking
requirement.
      (5)   When authorized by the City Commission upon a preliminary finding
that the parking is inadequate, but not sooner than one year after the date of
issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the development, the city shall
undertake a study to determine the need of providing the full parking
requirement to satisfy the proven demand for parking.
      (6)   Based upon the study and the recommendations of the City Engineer
and the City Planner, the City Commission shall determine if the deferred
spaces shall be converted to operable parking spaces by the developer or
retained as deferred parking area.
      (7)   The developer may at any time request that the City Commission
approve a revised development plan to allow converting the deferred spaces to
operable parking spaces.
   (B)   For occasional parking. Up to 40% of required parking spaces, where
the city finds that the parking lot is to be used for occasional parking only
(approximately one to two times per week); and provided that all accessways and
aisles shall be paved.
   (C)   For temporary or interim parking. Up to 100% of required parking
spaces, where the facility will be used on only a temporary or interim basis
(not more than 90 days).
   (D)   Reduction for mixed or joint use of parking spaces. The City
Commission shall authorize a reduction in the total number of required parking
spaces for two or more uses jointly providing off-street parking when their
respective hours of need of maximum parking do not normally overlap. Reduction
of parking requirements because of joint use shall be approved if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The developer submits sufficient data to demonstrate that hours of
maximum demand for parking at the respective uses do not normally overlap.
      (2)   The developer submits a legal agreement approved by the city
guaranteeing the joint use of the off-street parking spaces as long as the uses
requiring parking are in existence or until the required parking is provided
elsewhere in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 570, passed 10-3-91)
§ 19 REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR RESERVATION.
   No unimproved reservation of required parking areas permitted by this
appendix shall be authorized unless:
   (A)   The area covered by the reservation shall be shown on the final site
plan.
   (B)   The property owner shall, at his own expense, enter into a written
agreement with the city, recorded in the records of the county and running with
the land, that the area covered by the reservation shall never be encroached
upon, used, sold, or leased for any purpose other than parking for the use it
serves so long as the off-street parking facilities are required by this
appendix.
   (C)   The written agreement shall include conditions as may be necessary to
guarantee development of the reserved spaces whenever the city shall determine
that the need exists or that the reserved area has not been maintained in a
healthy, grassy state. The agreement shall be voided if the reserved spaces are
developed, or if the off-street parking facilities are no longer required by
this appendix.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
APPENDIX C: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section:
   
1.   General requirements
   
2.   Development within areas of special flood hazard (100 year flood plain)
   
3.   Hydrologic design criteria
   
4.   Hydraulic design criteria
   
5.   Drainage plan requirements
   
6.   As-built drawings
   
7.   Stormwater management utility
   
8.   Stormwater management system maintenance requirements
   
9.   Underground stormwater management system requirements
§ 1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A stormwater management system shall be designed and installed for all land
development projects that will contain features to provide for pollution
abatement, recharge where possible, and protection from flooding.
   (A)   Pollution abatement: St. Johns River Water Management District's
current criteria for pollution abatement shall be required of all land
development projects. Refer to Table 1. Stormwater Treatment Criteria, Chapter
40C-41, F.A.C. (see Table 1, Pages 2 and 3).
   (B)   Recharge (where possible): In areas of Type A soils (as described by
the U.S.D.A Soil Conservation Service), the total volume of runoff from the 25
year, 24 hour post-development storm event must be retained.
   (C)   Protection from flooding:
      (1)   In areas that have positive outfall (e.g. areas that drain to
wetlands, streams, rivers, or lakes that have a direct hydraulic connection to
either the Atlantic Ocean or the Gulf of Mexico), the St. Johns River Water
Management District's Peak Discharge Criteria must be met for each drainage
basin within all land development projects. Refer to Section 10.3, Page 36, of
the St. Johns River Water Management District Applicant's Handbook for the
Management and Storage of Surface Waters.
      (2)   In areas that drain to closed basins (depressions, wetlands or
lakes which do not have a positive outfall), the St. Johns River Water
Management District's volume criteria must be met for each drainage basin
within all land development projects. Refer to Section 10.4, Page 39, of the
St. Johns River Water Management district Applicant's Handbook for the
Management and Storage of Surface Waters.
      (3)   In special flood hazard areas as indicated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency's Flood Insurance Study and Flood Insurance Rate Map of
September 28, 2007, all proposed commercial, industrial, and residential
structures are to be floodfree during the 100-year frequency, 24-hour duration
storm event.
      (4)   The finished floor elevation of all habitable structures shall be a
minimum of 1.5 feet above the centerline of the road way or based on an
Engineer's detailed design showing that flow of stormwater drainage will be
diverted around and not impact the structure.
Table 1
Stormwater Treatment Criteria
Chapter 40C-42, Florida Administrative Code
St. Johns River Water Management District
Type of Treatment System Class III
                         Receiving Water Classification
Table 1
Stormwater Treatment Criteria
Chapter 40C-42, Florida Administrative Code
St. Johns River Water Management District
Type of Treatment System Class III
                         Receiving Water Classification
Retention, Underdrain, & Option #1 Off-line         Option #2 On-line Treatment
Exfiltration             Treatment
                         0.5 inches of runoff or    0.5 inch additional
                         1.25 inches times          treatment volume over that
                         impervious area, whichever required in Option #1.
                         is greater.
Filtration               Option #1 Off-line         Option #2 On-line Treatment
                         Treatment
                         1.0 inches of runoff or    0.5 inch additional
                         2.5 inches times           treatment volume over that
                         impervious area, whichever required in Option #1.
                         is greater.
Wet Detention            On-line Treatment
                         1.0 inch of runoff or 2.5 inches times impervious
                         area, whichever is greater.
                         14-day residence time
                         Littoral Zone (or 21-day residence time)
Swale                    On-line
                         80% of the runoff from the three-year, one hour storm
Wetland Treatment        On-line
                         1.0 inches of runoff or 2.5 inches times impervious,
                         whichever is greater
 
Stormwater Treatment Criteria
Chapter 40C-42, Florida Administrative Code
St. Johns River Water Management District
Type of Treatment System Class I, Class II, and OFW
                         Receiving Water Classification
Stormwater Treatment Criteria
Chapter 40C-42, Florida Administrative Code
St. Johns River Water Management District
Type of Treatment System Class I, Class II, and OFW
                         Receiving Water Classification
Retention, Underdrain, & Option #1 Off-line         Option #2 On-line
Exfiltration
                         50% additional treatment   Runoff from the three year,
                         volume over Class III      one-hour storm or 50%
                         Option #1 treatment        additional treatment volume
                         criteria.                  over Class III Option #2,
                                                    whichever is greater.
Filtration               Option #1 Off-line         Option #2 On-line
                         50% additional treatment   Runoff from the three year,
                         volume over filtration     one-hour storm or 50%
                         Class III Option #1        additional treatment volume
                         treatment criteria.        over Class III Option #2,
                                                    whichever is greater.
Wet Detention            Option #1 On-line          Option #2 On-line
                         Pretreatment pursuant
                         Class III retention,       50% more treatment volume
                         exfiltration, or under-    over Class III criteria.
                         drain criteria in addition 21-day residence time.
                         to Class III wet 21-day    Littoral Zone (or 31.5 day
                         residence time detention   residence time).
                         criteria.
Swale                    On-line
                         Runoff from the three-year, one-hour storm
Wetland Treatment        On-line
                         50% additional volume over Class III treatment
                         criteria.
 
   (D)   A permit from St. Johns River Water Management Districts required for
all land development projects within the city limits of the city prior to
obtaining a building permit and a copy of this permit, when issued, must be
submitted to the city along with a copy of the maintenance agreement signed by
the owner.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 1263, passed
9-20-07; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
§ 2. DEVELOPMENT WITHIN AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD (100-YEAR FLOOD).
   (A)    All developments within areas of special flood hazard as delineated
on the official national flood insurance program’s latest or current flood
insurance rate maps, or as determined by the City Engineer, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Establish to the satisfaction of the city the elevation of the 100-
year flood.
      (2)   Set the minimum finished floor elevation to at least 1.5 feet above
the 100-year flood elevation. It is the responsibility of the developer to
insure that all finished floor elevations are set to 1.5 feet above the 100-
year flood elevation.
      (3)   All fill within the 100-year floodplain shall be compensated by
creation of stormwater storage of an equal or greater volume, credited above
the seasonal high water table. Such compensatory storage shall
be located within or directly connected to the 100-year floodplain so that the
flood waters can move freely into and out of the compensation area. Stormwater
retention and detention volumes below the seasonal high water table shall not
be used to compensate for the placement of fill within the 100-year floodplain.
   (B)    All developments within river line flood hazard areas shall be
designed to maintain the flood carrying capacity of the floodway such that the
base flood elevations are not increased, either upstream or downstream.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 1263, passed 9-
20-07; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 3. HYDROLOGIC DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Methods of computing runoff volume and peak rate discharge. The design
method used to establish runoff volume and peak rates of discharge shall be by
current techniques approved by the St. Johns River Water Management District
and/or the Florida Department of Transportation. In order to provide for a
reasonable measure of consistency, the following methods of computation are
encouraged:
      (1)   For basins or sub-basins 0 to 5 acres in area, use the Rational
Method (Q = CIA).
      (2)   For basins or sub-basins 5 to 300 acres in area, use the SCS Method
or the Santa Barbara Urban Hydrograph Method.
      (3)   For basins over 300 acres in area, use advanced stormwater modeling
software such as TR-20 by the U.S.D.A, Soil Conservation Service; HEC-1, by the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Advanced I.C.P.R. by Streamline Technologies,
Inc.; and the like.
   (B)   Design storms for various structures:
      (1)   Minimum design storms:
 
Facility                               Design Storm
Bridges                                50-year, critical duration*
Canals, ditches, or culverts for       25-year, critical duration
drainage external to the development
Cross drains, storm sewers             10-year, critical duration
Roadside swales for drainage           10-year, critical duration internal to
                                       the development
Detention basins                       25-year, 24-hour
Retention basins (no positive outfall) 25-year, 24-hour or 100-year, 24-hour
 
*Note: Critical duration is that storm event which generates the peak discharge
rate for the post-development conditions. Use the Florida Department of
Transportation methods to determine this event.
      (2)   The design frequency for major drainage systems may be increased if
deemed necessary by the City Engineer to protect upstream or downstream
properties or to comply with other regulations.
   (C)   Rainfall intensity, storm duration, rainfall distributions, and
rainfall amounts.
      (1)   The following guidelines are for use in the design of the
stormwater management system. For the Rational Method, time of concentration
will dictate the intensity. Rainfall intensities for the Rational Method are to
be obtained from the State Department of Transportation Rainfall Curves for
Zone 7.
      (2)   For other methods, such as the SCS method or the Santa Barbara
Urban Hydrograph method, use the durations given above in (B) Design storms for
various structures.
      (3)   For the 24-hour durations, use the Soil Conservation Service's Type
II Florida modified rainfall distribution. Tabular rainfall ratios (accumulated
total/24-hour total) for this distribution are given in section 13.1.2 of the
Applicant's Handbook for the Management and Storage of Surface Waters of the
St. Johns River Water Management District. For the 25-year, 96-hour storm, use
the distribution given in section 13.2.3 of the Applicant's Handbook for the
Management and Storage of Surface Waters of the St. Johns River Water
Management District. For all other distributions, use the distributions
developed by the Florida Department of Transportation for this district.
      (4)   The rainfall amounts to be used with the above storm events are to
be amounts recommended by any of the three following agencies: the U.S.D.A.
Soil Conservation Service, the Florida Department of Transportation, or the St.
Johns River Water Management District for the Lake Mary area.
   (D)   Retention/detention design criteria. As a minimum, all facilities
shall meet the St. Johns River Water Management District's criteria but the
city reserves the right to demand stricter standards if the City Engineer deems
it necessary in order to protect property from flood damage, protect the water
quality of the lakes in the city, or to protect special wetland areas, such as
Soldiers Creek.
      (1)   Dry-bottom ponds.
         (a)   Retention with infiltration/recharge facilities.
            1.   A soils report by a geotechnical engineer registered in the
state documenting the soils types and the seepage rates at each pond location
is required. Infiltration may be used in the stormwater routing analysis to
reduce the peak rate of discharge, but the rates to be used must be determined
by the geotechnical engineer.
            2.   The bottom of the pond must be a minimum of three feet above
the seasonal high water table, except for ponds that are to service the
drainage system of the city’s downtown redevelopment area as depicted in the
downtown master plan, which may have a one foot separation.
            3.   Water evacuation period. Ponds shall be dry within 72 hours of
the cessation of rainfall.
            4.   Ponds not designed for the 25-year, 24-hour post-development
volume or the 25-year, 96-hour or the 100-year, 24-hour storm events are
required to have an outfall structure with an oil skimmer. These outfall
structures must discharge to appropriate drainage facilities.
         (b)   Detention with filtration.
            1.   A soils report by a geotechnical engineer registered in the
state documenting the soils types and the seepage rates at each pond location
is required. Infiltration may be used in the stormwater routing analysis to
reduce the peak rate of discharge, but the rates to be used must be determined
by the geotechnical engineer.
            2.   The bottom of the pond must be a minimum of three feet above
the seasonal high water table, except for ponds that are to service the
drainage system of the city’s downtown redevelopment area as depicted in the
downtown master plan, which may have a one foot separation. Where this is not
possible due to a high ground water table, the city will accept underdrains.
The underdrains will be installed with a minimum invert elevation of one foot
below the pond bottom and one-half a foot above the seasonal high water table.
There must be at least two feet of filtration, except for ponds that are to
service the drainage system of the city’s downtown redevelopment area as
depicted in the downtown master plan, which may have one foot of filtration.
            3.   Water evacuation period. Ponds shall be dry within 72 hours of
the cessation of rainfall.
            4.   Ponds not designed for the 25-year, 24-hour post-development
volume or the 25-year, 96-hour or the 100-year, 24-hour storm events are
required to have an outfall structure with an oil skimmer. These outfall
structures must discharge to appropriate drainage facilities.
            5.   All underdrains and filtration systems shall be designed to
meet the St. Johns River Water Management District's design criteria or the
Florida Department of Transportation's design criteria.
      (2)   Wet retention/detention facilities.
         (a)   These facilities must be designed to meet the St. Johns River
Water Management District's criteria as a minimum.
         (b)   A minimum of six feet of depth below the design low water must
be maintained.
         (c)   The side slopes must have a horizontal/vertical ratio of 6:1 or
greater from three feet below normal pool elevation to design high water
elevation. Above design high water elevation slopes can be 4:1.
   (E)   Open drainage ways or retention/detention ponds.
      (1)   Right-of-way and easements.
         (a)   Outfall ditches and canals shall have sufficient right-of-way
for the facility plus an unobstructed maintenance berm on one or both sides.
         (b)   Ponds shall have a sufficient easement to allow for installation
plus an unobstructed maintenance berm all around the perimeter of the pond.
      (2)   The minimum requirement for maintenance berms is as follows:
Ditch or Canal Width Minimum Maintenance Berm Required
Ditch or Canal Width Minimum Maintenance Berm Required
Less than 16 feet    20 feet one side
16 feet to 32 feet   20 feet both sides
32 feet to 55 feet   20 feet one side and 30 feet on the other side
Over 55 feet         30 feet both sides
Ponds                Minimum Maintenance Berm Required
With fencing         20 feet all around perimeter
Without fencing      5 feet
 
      (3)   Areas adjacent to open drainage ways and ponds shall be graded to
preclude the entrance of stormwater except at planned locations. Where
retention/detention areas are located on the project periphery, the developer
may be required to provide additional landscaping or screening to adequately
protect abutting properties
      (4)   Maximum side slopes.
         (a)   Open dry bottom drainage ways shall have a horizontal/vertical
side slopes ratio of 3:1 or greater. Open wet bottom drainage ways shall have a
horizontal/vertical side slopes ratio of 5:1 or greater.
         (b)   Dry bottom ponds shall have a horizontal/vertical side slopes
ratio of 4:1 or greater. Wet bottom ponds shall have a horizontal/vertical side
slopes ratio of 6:1 or greater to at least three feet of normal water depth.
         (c)   The use of retaining walls shall be allowed on Commercial/Office
site plans for up to one-third of the circumference of dry bottom retention/
detention ponds when the retaining wall fits into the architectural scheme of
the building. The retaining wall must be on the side of the pond adjacent to
the proposed buildings.
            1.   Refer to §
154.21 for requirements on constructing retaining walls. All items apply except
no landscaping will be required in the retention pond area.
            2.   Keystone retaining wall systems or similar products are
acceptable.
         (d)   Retaining walls, fences and slopes greater than 3 to 1 may be
approved based on the developer demonstrating a significant savings of trees
and native vegetation (see §
154.21).
      (5)   Minimum bottom width. The minimum bottom width for ponds and open
drainage ways shall be four feet.
      (6)   Erosion protection:
Open Drainage Ways, Grade Protection Required
Open Drainage Ways, Grade Protection Required
Less than 1%              Grassing and mulch
1% to 2%                  Sodding
Greater than 2%           Paving
Side Slopes               Sod
Ponds                     Protection Required
Side slopes and berms     Sod
Bottom                    Grass and mulch
 
A dense stand of grass is required to be established within all dedicated
rights-of-way and easements.
      (7)   Fencing, ponds.
         (a)   If side slopes have a horizontal/vertical ratio of 4:1 or
greater, fences will not be required.
         (b)   If side slopes have a horizontal/vertical ratio steeper than 4:
1 or if retaining walls are used, the city reserves the right to require
fencing if the staff (City Engineer) deems it necessary for safety. Fencing
shall not consist of wood, wire, or chainlink.
      (8)   Freeboard, open drainage ways and ponds: one-foot minimum above
design storm elevation.
   (F)   Porous concrete. The city will allow the use of porous concrete
parking areas in stormwater management systems as a means of reducing retention
pond size, creating more usable land, and protecting trees and natural
vegetation. The following conditions must be met:
      (1)   The mean annual high groundwater table must be a minimum of one
foot below the compacted subgrade.
      (2)   The city will require the owner and all future owners to maintain
the porous concrete drainage system. If at any time the system does not drain
within 72 hours, the owner will be required to rebuild the system at his
expense. This includes replacing the clogged subgrade materials with clean
sands and placing new porous concrete.
         (a)   If the porous concrete drains to a dry bottom retention pond,
which holds 50% or more of the required volume, only the pond bottom would have
to be replaced.
      (3)   All porous pavement designs must meet the specifications and
guidelines set forth in the "Pervious Pavement Manual" published by the Florida
Concrete and Products Association, Inc.
   (G)   Exfiltration systems. The city will allow the use of exfiltration
systems in stormwater management systems as a means of reducing retention pond
size, creating more usable land and protecting trees and natural vegetation.
The following conditions must be met:
      (1)   The mean annual high groundwater table must be a minimum of one
foot below the exfiltration pipe invert elevation.
      (2)   The city will require the owner and all future owners to maintain
the exfiltration system. If at any time the system does not drain within 72
hours, the owner will be required to rebuild the system at his expense. This
includes replacing the pipe, the filter fabric and any sands or granular
materials within five feet (horizontally) from the circumference of the pipe
and two feet below the invert of the pipe.
      (3)   All exfiltration systems shall be designed to meet the St. Johns
River Water Management District's or the Florida Department of Transportation's
specifications for exfiltration systems.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 457, passed 12-21-89; Am. Ord. 482, passed
1-4-90; Am. Ord. 527, passed 9-20-90; Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 1162,
passed 3-17-05)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 4. HYDRAULIC DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Roadway (pavement) drainage design.
      (1)   General. Good pavement drainage design consists of the proper
selection of grades, cross slopes, curb types, inlet locations, and the like,
to remove the design storm, rainfall from the pavement in a cost-effective
manner while preserving the safety, traffic capacity, and integrity of the
highway and street system. These factors are generally considered to be
satisfied provided that excessive spreads of the water are removed from the
vehicular traveled way and that siltation at pavement low points is not allowed
to occur. The guidelines included herein will accomplish these objectives, but
all design should meet the Florida Department of Transportation Standards as a
minimum.
      (2)   Minimum groundwater and high water clearances. All streets should
be designed to provide a minimum clearance of one foot between the bottom of
the base and the estimated seasonal high water table as established by a
geotechnical engineer, or the artificial water table induced by an underdrain
system. Swale drainage will be permitted only when the wet season water table,
as established by a geotechnical engineer, is a minimum of two feet below the
invert of the swale.
      (3)   Curbs and gutters, types. All roadway drainage not considered
suitable for swale or ditch-type drainage shall be designed as one of the
following:
         (a)   Miami curb and gutter section.
         (b)   Standard curb and gutter section.
      (4)   Design storm frequency. The design storm frequency to be utilized
for the design of pavement drainage shall be as follows:
         (a)   Arterial and collector streets: 10-year, hydraulic gradient line
one foot below gutter line.
         (b)   Local streets: 10-year, hydraulic gradient line one-half foot
below gutter line.
      (5)   Runoff determination. The peak rates of runoff for which the
pavement drainage system must be designed shall be determined by the Rational
Method. The time of concentration, individual drainage areas, and rainfall
intensity amounts shall be submitted as part of the drainage plans.
      (6)   Stormwater spread into traveled lanes. Inlets shall be spaced at
all low points, intersections, and along continuous grades so as to prevent the
spread of water from exceeding tolerable limits. The acceptable tolerable
limits for arterial and collector roadways is defined as approximately one-half
the traveled lane width. Acceptable tolerable limits for interior subdivision
roadways are defined as a maximum of one inch above the crown of the road.
      (7)   Maximum inlet interception rates. Types I and III (single) inlets
shall be located such that a maximum of five cfs shall be intercepted (Types II
and IV, nine cfs maximum). Bypass flow is limited to a maximum of one cfs. Off-
site flows from impervious areas more than one-half acre shall be intercepted
prior to right-of-way line.
      (8)   Inlet types. The curb inlet types to be used shall be the latest
version of the State Department of Transportation inlet Types I, II, III, IV,
and VIII. Ditch bottom inlets shall be Department of Transportation inlet Types
C, D, E, and H.
      (9)   Low point inlets. All inlets at low points (sumps) shall be
designed to intercept 100% of the design flow without exceeding the allowable
spread of water onto the traveled lanes as defined above. On arterial roadways,
in order to prevent siltation and to provide for a safety factor against
clogging of single inlets in a sump location, it is required to construct
multiple inlets at all sump locations. Preferably, three inlets should be
constructed on each side of the roadway, one at the low point and one on each
side at a point 0.2 feet higher than the low point.
   (B)   Storm sewer design.
      (1)   Design discharges. The determination of design flows for a storm
sewer system shall be in accordance with the methods and procedures set forth
in the aforementioned Hydraulic Design Criteria, division (A)(5).
      (2)   Minimum pipe size. The minimum size of pipe to be used in storm
sewer systems is 15 inches. Designs shall be based upon 6-inch increments in
sizes above 18 inches.
      (3)   Pipe grade. All storm-sewers shall be designed and constructed to
produce a minimum velocity of 2.5 fps when flowing full. No storm sewer system
or portion thereof will be designed to produce velocities in excess of ten fps.
      (4)   Maximum lengths of pipe. The following maximum runs of pipe shall
be used when spacing access structures of any type.
 
Pipe Size            Maximum (Feet)
15 to 18 inches      300
24 to 36 inches      400
42 inches and larger 500
 
      (5)   Design tailwater. All storm sewer systems shall be designed taking
into consideration the tailwater of the receiving facility or body of water.
      (6)   Allowable materials. Allowable material for storm sewers shall be
reinforced concrete pipe, Class III, as a minimum. Structures shall be designed
according to State Department of Transportation design standards.
   (C)   Culvert design.
      (1)   Minimum pipe size.
         (a)   The minimum size of pipes to be used for culvert installations
under roadways shall be 18 inches.
         (b)   The minimum size of pipes to be used for driveway crossings
shall be 15 inches.
      (2)   Maximum pipe grade. The maximum slope allowable shall be a slope
that produces a 10 fps velocity within the culvert barrel. Erosion protection
and energy dissipators may be required to properly control entrance and outlet
velocities.
      (3)   Maximum lengths of structure. The maximum length of culvert
conveyance structure without access shall be as allowed in the Hydraulic Design
Criteria, division (B)(4).
      (4)   Design of tailwater. All culvert installations shall be designed
taking into consideration the tail water of the receiving facility or body of
water.
      (5)   Allowable headwater. The allowable headwater of a culvert
installation should be set by the designer for an economical installation. When
end walls are used, the headwater should not exceed the top of the end wall at
the entrance. If the top of the end wall is inundated, special protection of
the roadway embankment and ditch slope may be necessary for erosion protection.
      (6)   Design procedure. The determination of the required size of a
culvert installation can be accomplished by exact mathematical analysis or by
the use of design nomographs. The mathematical solution will give precise
results, but is time consuming and somewhat non-productive when considering the
inaccuracies of estimating design flows and floodwater elevations.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 5. DRAINAGE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage map. The project engineer shall include in the construction
plans a master drainage map showing all existing and proposed features. The map
is to be prepared on a 24-inch by 36-inch sheet on a scale not to exceed one
inch equals 200 feet. Listed below are the features that are to be included on
the drainage map. (As a minimum, the city requires the same amount of
information as required by the St. Johns River Water Management District.)
      (1)   Drainage bounds: Both pre-development and post-development drainage
basin boundaries are to be delineated on the drainage plan. This includes any
off-site areas contributing stormwater runoff to the development in the pre-
development and post-development conditions.
      (2)   Topographic information: A topographic map of the development
delineating one foot contour intervals must be included on the drainage plan.
The pre-development contour lines should be shown as dashed lines and the post-
development contour lines should be shown as continuous lines.
      (3)   All wetlands must be shown on the drainage plan. A line 25 feet
upland of the normal high water and/or the wet land vegetative line, whichever
applies, must be staked in the field and shown on the plans. The city requires
this 25 feet as a buffer to the wetland areas. All lands below the elevation of
either of the two above described lines shall be dedicated as environmental/
conservation easements. Additionally, the development of the subject property
shall comply with the following provisions:
         (a)   Run-off. All new development, redevelopment of existing lots,
additions to existing structures and the construction of accessory structures
shall provide on-site stormwater retention, per code.
         (b)   During construction of all new development, redevelopment of
existing lots, additions to existing structures and the construction of
accessory structures, the owner of the property shall install shall install
silt fence and/or any other means of erosion control approved by the city to
prevent the run-off of sediments.
         (c)   During construction, at least once a week, the city shall
inspect the construction site and the silt/erosion control measures to ensure
that such measures are in place and functioning as required by the permit. If
such measures are found to be operating at less than optimal level, the city
shall require the contractor and/or owner of the property to take such actions
as are necessary to return the silt control measures back to optimal
efficiency. If such measures are not taken in what the city determines to be a
timely manner, the city may issue a "Stop Work Order" for the subject property.
         (d)   All permits for work on lots shall be accompanied by a survey
that clearly shows the type and location of all soils, the location of all
wetlands, the 100-year flood elevation, if applicable, and the mean high water
elevation.
         (e)   Wetlands shall be delineated by a professional biologist,
ecologist or other consultant, approved by the city.
         (f)   Except as permitted by the St. Johns River Water Management
District and/or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, existing
wetlands shall not be removed, reduced in size by mowing and/or other
mechanical means, impacted and/or degraded by chemical application.
         (g)   Except as permitted by the St. Johns River Water Management
District and/or the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the
construction of docks, as permitted in §
154.12, shall not encroach into, remove and/or impact existing wetlands.
         (h)   Except as permitted by the City Engineer, the maximum slope of
any lot for new development and/or redevelopment shall not exceed 4 to 1.
         (i)   At the time of permitting, the plans shall be checked to ensure
that the proposed development complies with the maximum allowable grades.
         (j)   Prior to the approval of the certificate of occupancy (CO),
staff shall verify that the grades of the property do or do not comply with
grades shown on the approved plans.
      (4)   High water data on all existing water bodies and wetlands must be
shown on the drainage plan. This includes the 10, 25 and 100-year flood
elevations. Also, the source or sources of these elevations must be shown.
      (5)   Notes pertaining to existing standing water, areas of heavy
seepage, high ground water table, or springs must be shown.
      (6)   Any existing drainage features, either upstream or downstream from
the development, which will be impacted by the development, must be shown.
      (7)   Subdivision layouts with horizontal and vertical controls must be
shown.
      (8)   All proposed drainage facilities (including: swales, inlets, pipes,
manholes, retention ponds, detention ponds, outfall structures, filtration
systems, and the like) must be shown.
      (9)   All drainage easements and ingress/egress areas for maintaining the
drainage system must be shown.
      (10)   Description of the pre-development ground cover and land use must
be noted on the drainage plans or in the drainage calculations which must
accompany the plan.
      (11)   Lines delineating areas of different soil types must be shown and,
each area must be labeled with its appropriate Soil Conservation Services soil-
type name. This information can be included in or accompany the soils report
from the geotechnical engineer.
      (12)   A recent aerial of the site depicting the predevelopment condition
must be submitted with the drainage-plans.
      (13)   Drainage details. The drainage details to be shown in the drainage
plans include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Cross sections of all retention/detention ponds showing the 10,
25 and 100 year flood elevations.
         (b)   Typical swale, ditch, or canal cross-sections.
         (c)   Drainage right-of-ways and easements.
         (d)   Outfall structure details.
         (e)   Typical inlet types and details.
         (f)   Oil skimmer details
         (g)   Mitered end details.
         (h)   Erosion control details.
   (B)   Subsoil investigation. A subsoil report shall be prepared by a
Geotechnical Engineer registered in the State of Florida. The contents of this
subsoil report will be in accordance with design criteria, division (D), and as
a minimum will include, but not be limited to, soil borings which indicate
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Official's soil
classifications, gradation, determination of existing (24-hour test), and wet
season water table, field-determined vertical and horizontal soils permeability
rates, soils porosity values, and the depth of the relative impermeable soil
layer for determining the duration of the vertical infiltration. A minimum of
two borings will be taken in each retention/detention pond.
   (C)   Stormwater calculations-hydrological. Stormwater calculations must be
submitted with the drainage plans. These calculations must be in accordance
with § 3. Hydrologic Design Criteria, and should include as a minimum the same
degree of detail as required by the St. Johns River Water Management District.
      (1)   The calculations should include enough information to verify the
functionality of the proposed drainage system. This information includes
hydrograph tabulations and stormwater routing tabulations for both the pre-
development and post-development conditions, and all the information necessary
to generate these tabulations.
   (D)   Stormwater calculations-hydraulic. All calculations necessary to show
that the storm sewers, swales, and other hydraulic structures function
correctly during the design storms must be included with the stormwater
calculations. These calculations should be in accordance with § 4, Hydraulic
Design Criteria.
      (1)   The storm sewer tabulations to be shown on the plans or in the
calculations include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Location and type of structures.
         (b)   Type, size, and length of storm sewer pipe.
         (c)   Drainage basin areas contributing to each structure.
         (d)   Runoff coefficients.
         (e)   Time of concentration of each sub-basin.
         (f)   Arrows delineating stormwater flow directions to structures and
in pipes.
         (g)   Hydraulic gradients.
         (h)   Estimated receiving water elevations with sources of
information.
         (i)   Outlet velocities.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93; Am. Ord. 1282, passed 3-6-08)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 6. AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   Before the Engineering Department will conduct the final inspection of any
completed site, five sets of blue line as-built drawings, signed and sealed by
the Design Engineer, and one set of mylar as-built drawings must be provided to
the city by the Design Engineer.
   (A)   These as-built drawings must be the set of approved construction plans
and show the final as-built situation superimposed on them. Old information
should be crossed out with the as-built condition shown adjacent to it.
   (B)   These as-built drawings must be signed and sealed by the Design
Engineer, who is an engineer registered in the state. The Design Engineer will
be held responsible for any discrepancies shown on the as-builts or
unauthorized variations from the approved construction plans.
   (C)   If the as-built conditions differ from the approved construction plans
in such a way that the City Engineer deems unacceptable, the city reserves the
right to deny approval of the site and demand that the errors be corrected no
matter what the cost to the contractor and/or owner (whoever is responsible).
(Ord. 632, passed 2-4-93)
§ 7 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY.
   (A)   Creation of stormwater management utility.
      (1)   Pursuant to the home rule power of Article VIII, 2(b), Florida
Constitution, Chapter 166, Florida Statutes and Section 403.0893(1), Florida
Statutes, the city does hereby establish a stormwater management utility and
declare its intention to acquire, own, construct, equip, operate and maintain
open drainage ways, underground storm drains, treatment facilities, equipment
and appurtenances necessary, useful or convenient for a complete stormwater
management system, and also including maintenance, extension and construction
of the present stormwater management system of the city; to minimize by
suitable means said system's contribution to flooding; to minimize by suitable
means said system's adverse effect on the water quality of lakes, ponds, rivers
and basins within the city; and to seek the cooperation of Seminole County and
other municipalities in minimizing the effects of all such systems and other
sources of accelerated runoff to said flooding and water quality.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words
when used herein shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
   ABATEMENT. Any action taken to remedy correct, or eliminate a condition
within,  associated with, or impacting a drainage system.
   APPLICABLE CONTRIBUTING AREA. The total area in square feet achieved for any
given parcel or parcels where the properties gross impervious and pervious
surface areas are reduced by their respective runoff coefficients.
   BASE RATE. That portion of the stormwater management fee which comprises
stormwater services relative to publicly common impervious surfaces including
roads, streets, and bridges. In addition, the base rate may include any
expenses incurred in the administration of the billing of charges.
   BENEFICIARIES OF DRAINAGE SERVICE. Shall include all real property within
the city which benefit by the provision of maintenance, operation and
improvement of the stormwater control system, such benefits may include, but
are not limited to, the provision of adequate systems of collection,
conveyance, detention, treatment and release of stormwater, the reduction of
hazard to property and life resulting from stormwater runoff, improvement in
the general health and welfare through reduction of undesirable stormwater
conditions and improvement to the water quality in the storm and surface water
system and its receiving waters.
   CITY. The City of Lake Mary, Florida.
   CONTRIBUTING RUNOFF. The area of a parcel from which stormwater will result
in runoff. For the city, the contributing runoff of each parcel is estimated as
100% of the square feet of impervious and pervious surface located on the
parcel.
   CONTRIBUTION RATE. That portion of the stormwater management fee reflective
of a particular parcel's individual contributing to runoff.
   CONTRIBUTORS OF STORMWATER. Shall include all real properties within the
city.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Lake Mary.
   COUNTY. The County of Seminole, Florida.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Any property altered in appearance by removal of
vegetation, grading of the ground surface and construction of a structure of
impervious surface.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director or his/her designee.
   EQUIVALENT DRAINAGE UNIT (EDU). A standard unit of measure determined to
represent the stormwater runoff generated by a typical residential unit
(consisting of a weighted average of a single family unit) in the city. Such
measure provides a basis for comparing the runoff generated by one parcel with
that generated by another. The weighted average contributing area is determined
to be 4,576 square feet, and the weighted average shall be used for the purpose
of all such computations. The EDU shall be used as the basis for computing
monthly charges on residential and non-residential properties.
   HYDROLOGIC RESPONSE. The manner and means by which stormwater collects upon
real property and is conveyed from real property, and which is a function
dependent upon a number of interacting factors, including, but not limited to,
topography, vegetation, surficial geologic conditions, antecedent soil moisture
conditions and ground water conditions. The principal measures of the
hydrologic system may be stated in terms of total runoff volume, as a
percentage of total precipitation which runs off, or in terms of the peak rate
of flow generated in the event of a storm of given duration and intensity, or
statistical interval of return (frequency).
   IMPERVIOUS AREAS. Those hard surfaced areas which either prevent or severely
restricts the entry of water into the soil mantle, as it entered under natural
conditions prior to development, and/or cause water to run off the surface in
greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that present under
natural conditions prior to development. Common impervious surfaces include,
but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas and other surfaces which similarly impact the
natural infiltration or runoff patterns which existed to development, including
normal water in ponds and lakes.
   LOT. A parcel of property located in a platted subdivision. Each developed
lot, multiple lots which have been aggregated to create a single developed
residential "lot", and multiple adjoining undeveloped lots in single ownership
which may not be developed as individual separate lots will be deemed to be a
parcel for the purposes of this ordinance.
   NATURAL STATE. These surfaces which remain in a state lacking manmade
intervention which would deter the natural percolation of stormwater into the
soil mantle.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any building, structure or facility used other than as
a dwelling unit or single-family unit.
   OPEN DRAINAGEWAY. A natural or manmade open-cut which has the specific
function of transmitting natural stream water or storm runoff water from a
point of higher elevation to a point of lower elevation, such as swales,
ditches, canals, streams and creeks.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
   PARCEL. The area of land for which the EDU calculation is determined for,
including all buildings and appurtenances situated thereupon. Except as to
property located in platted subdivisions, a parcel of real property will be
that quantity of land assigned a parcel number upon the real property tax rolls
of Seminole County, Florida.
   PEAK FLOW. The highest instantaneous rate of stormwater runoff, measured or
estimated in cubic feet of water per second. It is differentiated from total
flow volume by the introduction of a unit of time measure during which the
maximum rate of flow is measured, calculated, or estimated.
   PERVIOUS AREAS. That area within the city which is, under standard
conditions, permeable to stormwater runoff and surface water.
   PRIVATE. That property or facilities owned by individuals, corporations, and
other organizations and not by a city, county, state, or federal government
agency.
   SERVICE AREA. The corporate limits of the city.
   SITE MITIGATION. All private facilities constructed on a parcel of land
which provide for the abatement of stormwater to amounts equivalent to vacant
property or standards prescribed by the city.
   STORMWATER. Means the flow of water which results from and occurs
immediately following a rainfall event.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE. Stormwater management fee enacted herein which is
billed on the basis of equivalent drainage units. The stormwater management fee
shall include the Base Rate charge and the contribution rate charge.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. The appurtenances, facilities, equipment and services
necessary for which the stormwater runoff is conveyed; the peak flow from
developed land surfaces is reduced; the erosion created by stormwater is
reduced; and/or the water quality of the stormwater runoff is improved within
the corporate limits of the city.
   TOTAL FLOW. The accumulative volume of stormwater discharged from a
property, basin, or watershed. The total flow is quantified in measures such as
acre feet or cubic feet of water.
   UTILITY. The stormwater management utility created hereby.
   VACANT. Any lot or parcel of land that is without any building, structure,
appurtenance, or improvements.
   VEGETATION. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses
and grasses.
   (C)   Findings, determination and intent. It is hereby found, determined and
declared as follows:
      (1)   Those elements of the stormwater system for the collection of and
disposal of storm and surface water are of benefit and provide services to all
property within the city including property not presently served by the storm
elements of the system.
      (2)   The cost of operating and maintaining the city's stormwater
management utility system and financing necessary repairs, replacements,
improvements and extension thereof should, to the extent practicable, be
allocated in relationship to the user impacts, benefits enjoyed and services
received therefrom.
      (3)   All property within the city demonstrates a hydrologic response to
rainfall events which generates stormwater runoff. The volume, rate, and
quality of this runoff will vary with the soil type, land use conditions,
topographic conditions, and other variables. In particular, the construction of
non-residential units on previously undeveloped property will generally
increase the volume and rate of stormwater runoff, and adversely affect its
water quality.
      (4)   It is the intent of this section to establish stormwater management
as a city utility and to establish a program of service charges and fees for
stormwater management services, which charges and fees are to be charged to all
property within the city to accomplish the purposes of said utility.
   (D)   Stormwater management utility fee.
      (1)   A stormwater fee is hereby imposed upon each lot and parcel within
the city for services and facilities provided by the stormwater management
utility system. For purposes of imposing the stormwater fee, all lots and
parcels within the city are classified as residential or non-residential.
Apartment buildings will be classified as non-residential due to the commercial
nature of the property.
      (2)   The City Manager or his/her designee is directed to prepare a list
of lots and parcels within the city and assign a classification of residential
or non-residential to each lot or parcel.
   (E)   Schedule of stormwater management utility fees. The City Commission
may by resolution modify or amend the uniform schedule of charges and fees as
established herein for the services and uses of the facilities of the
stormwater management system by the owner of property using the services and
facilities of said system. The initial uniform schedule of charges and fees is
as follows:
      (1)   Residential. Each single family residential unit shall be billed at
a flat fee based upon one equivalent drainage unit (EDU) per dwelling unit.
Additionally, common areas and/or tracts that fall under the responsibility of
a developer/homeowners association and so forth shall be classified and billed
as non-residential.
      (2)   Non-residential. For non-residential properties, the number of
equivalent drainage units (EDU) shall be determined. All non-residential
properties shall be billed based on the total applicable contributing area of
the property divided by the Equivalent Drainage Unit factor and then multiplied
by the rate established for an EDU. The calculation of the EDU amount shall be
done to the nearest tenth (0.1) of an equivalent drainage unit. Gross parcel
area and applicable contributing area shall be determined for each parcel using
site plans, tax maps, REDI maps, aerial photos, and any other appropriate
information. For non-residential properties, the total bill will be sent to the
property owner as determined by the city.
      (3)   Charge per EDU. The charge per EDU will be $4.00 per month and will
consist of a base fee of $1.93 per EDU applicable to all properties, plus a
contribution fee of $2.07 per EDU, applicable to all properties. All non-
residential property with site mitigation facilities will pay the minimum
charge consistent with (4) below.
      (4)   The minimum charge for developed property, in addition to the base
rate charge, shall be a contribution fee of one (1) EDU.
      (5)   Each lot or parcel of property shall be charged the base rate
charge, regardless of its development character, in addition to any
contribution charge which may be rendered.
   (F)   Equivalent Drainage Unit Calculation. The equation for calculating the
number of EDUs applicable to any property is as follows:
   AR/CA = EDU
   Where:
   AP = Applicable Contributing Area of Parcel in square feet.
   CA = Contributing Area of a residential unit equal to 4,576 square feet.
   EDU = Equivalent Drainage Unit.
   (G)   Appeal of Surface Calculation.
      (1)   Any person disagreeing with the calculation of EDUs as determined
by the city, may appeal such determination to the City Manager or his/her
designee. Any appeal must be filed in writing and, as determined by the City
Manager, shall include a survey prepared by a registered surveyor showing total
property area, in addition to pervious and impervious surface area. Based upon
the information provided by the city and the appealing party, the City Manager
shall make a final calculation of pervious and impervious surfaces. The City
Manager shall notify the parties, in writing, of his/her decision. If still
dissatisfied, a party may appeal the City Manager’s decision to the City
Commission in the same manner as preceding. The decision of the City Commission
shall be final. Any adjustment to the originally determined area shall be
retroactive to commencement of the charges and fees, provided said adjustment
was requested within one year from the commencement of the charges and fees;
thereafter any adjustment to the impervious area shall apply only from the date
of the request for the adjustment.
   (H)   Storm Water Management Fund.
      (1)   All stormwater management utility fees collected by the city shall
be paid into a separate fund which is hereby created, to be known as the
"Stormwater Management Proprietary Revenue Fund". Such fund shall be used for
the purpose of paying the cost of stormwater drainage facilities to be
constructed in the various storm drainage basins and paying the cost of
operation, administration and maintenance of the stormwater system of the city.
To the extent that the stormwater management fees collected are insufficient to
construct the needed stormwater system, the cost of the same may be paid from
such city fund as may be determined by the City Commission, but the City
Commission may order the reimbursement of such fund if additional fees are
thereafter collected. When the fund has surplus dollars on hand in excess of
current needs, the surplus dollars may be invested to return the highest yield
consistent with proper safeguards. The revenue derived for the stormwater
management utility fees collected by the city may be pledged for the repayment
of revenue bonds which may be issued solely upon the security of stormwater
utility revenue or combined with other proprietary revenue of the city.
      (2)   The fees and charges paid shall not be used for general or other
governmental or proprietary purport of the city, except to pay for the
equitable share of the cost of accounting, management and government thereof
and except in combination with other proprietary revenues for purposes of
bonding. To the extent that the stormwater fee revenues are combined with other
proprietary funds for the purpose of bonding, the percentage bond revenues
equating to the percentage of the pledge of stormwater fee revenues shall be
used only for the purposes permitted by this appendix. Other than as described
above, the fees and charges shall be used solely to pay for the cost of
operation, repair, maintenance, improvements, renewal, replacement, design,
right-of-way acquisition, and construction of public stormwater drainage
facilities and costs incidental thereto.
   (I)   Stormwater management utility fee collection.
      (1)   The stormwater management utility fee shall be billed and collected
with the monthly utility bill for those lots or parcels of developed property
utilizing city utilities and billed and collected separately as stormwater
management utility fees for those lots or parcels of property and owners
thereof not utilizing other city utilities. The start date for the billing of
the stormwater management utility fee shall be at the time of site construction
approval. All such bills for stormwater management utility fees shall be
rendered monthly by the Finance Department and shall become due and payable in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Finance Department pertaining
to the collection of utility fees. The stormwater management utility fee is
part of a consolidated statement for utility customers which is generally paid
by a single payment. In the event that a partial payment is received, the
payment shall first be applied to garbage and trash, next applied to stormwater
management, next applied to sewer, and finally applied to the water account.
      (2)   Any charge due hereunder which shall not be paid when due shall
bear all approved monthly service charges as permitted by law or by ordinance
of the city and may be recovered in an action at law by the city. The
delinquent account shall be responsible for all costs of collection to include
reasonable attorney's fees whether or not suit is necessary. In addition to any
other remedies or penalties provided by this or any other ordinance of the
city, failure of any user of city utilities within the city to pay said charges
promptly when due shall subject such user to discontinuance of utility services
and the City Manager of the city is hereby empowered and directed to enforce
this provision as to any and all delinquent users.
      (3)   In the case that a tenant in possession of any premises or
buildings shall pay said stormwater management utility fees, it shall relieve
the land owner from such obligation; but the city shall not be required to look
to any person whatsoever other than the owner for the payment of such charges.
      (4)   The utility fee hereinabove prescribed shall constitute a debt to
the city for which the owner, tenant and/or occupant shall be jointly and
severally liable. The records of the city shall be kept open for the inspection
by the owner, tenant, or occupant and it shall be the responsibility of an
owner, tenant or occupant to ascertain that the prescribed fee or fees are
being paid.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties tributary to the city's stormwater management system for the
purposes of inspections, observations, measurement, and testing in accordance
with the provisions of this section and any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation to include reasonable attorney's fees whether
or not litigation is necessary.
(Ord. 643, passed 6-17-93; Am. Ord. 1493, passed 8-22-13; Am. Ord. 1497, passed
9-19-13)
§ 8. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The City of Lake Mary Stormwater Management System
Maintenance Requirements are to provide for effective management of stormwater
run-off within the city; and provide a mechanism for mitigating the damaging
effects of uncontrolled and unplanned stormwater run-off; to improve the public
health, safety and welfare by providing for the safe and efficient capture and
conveyance of stormwater and the correction of stormwater problems.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   “DRY DETENTION.” A system designed to collect and temporarily store
stormwater in a normally dry basin with subsequent gradual release of the
stormwater.
      (2)   “EXFILTRATION TRENCH.” A below ground system consisting of a
conduit such as perforated pipe surrounded by natural or artificial aggregate
which is utilized to percolate stormwater into the ground.
      (3)   “LITTORAL ZONE.” That portion of a wet detention pond that is
designed to contain rooted aquatic plants.
      (4)   “OPERATIONAL MAINTENANCE.” Any activity or repair required to keep
a stormwater management system functioning as designed.
      (5)   “POLLUTION.” The presence in waters of any substances,
contaminates, or manmade or man-induced impairment of waters or alteration of
chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of water in
quantities or at levels which are or may be potentially harmful or injurious to
human health or welfare, animal or plant life, or property or which
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property.
      (6)   “RETENTION.” A system designed to prevent the discharge of a given
volume of stormwater runoff into surface waters by complete on-site storage.
      (7)   “STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.” a system which is designed and
constructed or implemented to control discharges which are necessitated by
rainfall events, incorporating methods to collect, convey, store, absorb,
inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent or reduce flooding, overdrainage,
environmental degradation and water pollution or otherwise affect the quality
and quantity of discharges.
      (8)   “SWALE.” A manmade trench which has a top width to depth ratio of
the cross-section equal to or greater than 6:1, or side slopes equal to or
greater than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical and contains contiguous
areas of standing or flowing water only following a rainfall event and is
planted with or has stabilized vegetation suitable for soil stabilization,
stormwater treatment, and nutrient uptake; and is designed to take into account
the soil erodibility, soil percolation, slope, slope length and drainage area
so as to prevent erosion and reduce pollutant concentration of any discharge.
      (9)   “UNDERDRAIN.” A drainage system installed beneath a stormwater
holding area to improve the infiltration and percolation characteristics of the
natural soil when permeability is restricted due to periodic high water table
conditions or the presence of layers of fine textured soil below the bottom
holding area.
      (10)   “WET DETENTION.” The collection and temporary storage of
stormwater in a permanently wet impoundment in such a manner as to provide for
treatment through physical, chemical and biological processes with subsequent
gradual release of stormwater.
   (C)   Monitoring and operational maintenance requirements. The following
operational maintenance activities shall be performed by the property owner on
all systems on a regular basis or as needed:
      (1)   Removal of trash and debris,
      (2)   Inspection of inlets and outlets,
      (3)   Removal of sediments when storage volume or conveyance capacity of
the stormwater management system is below design levels,
      (4)   Stabilization and restoration of eroded areas.
   (D)   Specific operational requirements.
      (1)   Retention, swale and underdrain systems shall include provisions
for:
         (a)   Mowing and removal of grass clippings,
         (b)   Aeration, tilling, or replacement of topsoil as needed to
restore the percolation capability of the system. If tilling or replacement of
topsoil is utilized, vegetation must be established on the disturbed surface.
      (2)   Exfiltration systems shall include provisions for removal of
sediment and debris from sediment sumps.
      (3)   Dry detention systems shall include provisions for mowing and
removal of grass clippings.
      (4)   Wet detention systems shall include provisions for operational
maintenance of the littoral zone. Replanting shall be required if the
percentage of vegetative cover falls below the original permitted level. It is
recommended that native species be maintained in the littoral zone as part of
the system's operation and maintenance plan. Undesirable species such as
cattails and exotic plants should be controlled if they become a nuisance.
      (5)   If the system is not functioning as designed and permitted,
operational maintenance must be performed immediately by the property owner to
restore the system.
   (E)   Administration and enforcement. This chapter shall be administered by
the Public Works Director. Any person who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished as provided in §
30.36(B) and or §
10.99 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
§ 9. UNDERGROUND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Underground stormwater management systems may be permitted in all
zoning districts upon city staff approval to accomplish stormwater retention
and percolation requirements provided those systems are designed for the
prevention of clogging by fine material and for ease of cleaning with
conventional sewer cleaning equipment.
   (B)   Design criteria:
      (1)   Underground stormwater management systems shall be designed by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   Underground stormwater management systems shall be designed to meet
the treatment and hydrologic criteria of a retention treatment system as
outlined in § 1 Table 1, and § 3(D)(1)(a) of this appendix with the exceptions
noted herein.
      (3)   A system overflow outfall shall be required.
      (4)   The bottom of the underground stormwater management system shall be
constructed a minimum of one foot above the estimated high groundwater
elevation. The estimated high groundwater elevation and a modeled recovery
analysis shall be performed by a licensed geotechnical engineer.
      (5)   Filtration media shall consist of clean, crushed, angular stone
with a nominal size distribution between three quarters of an inch to two
inches in diameter.
      (6)   Non-woven geotextile fabric shall be provided around the filtration
media to prevent the migration of the media into the surrounding subgrade
soils.
      (7)   A pretreatment structure shall be incorporated to remove all debris
and sedimentation from the stormwater runoff prior to entering the ex-
filtration system.
      (8)   Proper inspection and maintenance access ports/manholes shall be
installed on all structures and ex-filtration termination points. Inspection
ports shall also be installed at minimum every 20 feet along the length of the
system.
      (9)   The design shall meet such site or project specific additional
criteria as the Director of Public Works may require.
      (10)   Upon initial construction completion, an “as-built” drawing
confirming that the stormwater management system was constructed according to
the city approved drawings shall be signed and sealed by the engineer of record
and submitted to the City Public Works Department.
   (C)   Inspection and maintenance criteria.
      (1)   Inspection, maintenance, and testing procedures, including report
forms, shall be provided by the engineer of record and submitted to the city
with the site construction plans, and be approved by the city, before a permit
is issued.
 
      (2)   A volume test shall be performed on the underground stormwater
management system and an engineer certified volume test report, satisfactory to
the city, submitted as part of the final site inspection for certificate of
occupancy, and every four years thereafter, to the City Public Works
Department.
      (3)   Biannual inspections shall be performed by responsible party and
findings logged on the report form for the life of the treatment system.
Inspection records shall be kept on site for a period of four years and made
available to the city for review when requested by the city.
      (4)   Routine maintenance and cleaning operations shall be performed and
logged on the report form. Maintenance and cleaning records shall be kept on
site for a period of four years and made available to the city for review when
requested by the city.
(Ord. 1525, passed 5-7-15)
APPENDIX D: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
Sanitary Sewage; Public Water Supply
   
1.   General
   
2.   Pre-design conference
   
3.   Utility coordination
   
4.   Construction
   
5.   Plans, specifications, and cost
   
6.   Start of construction
   
7.   Completion of construction
   
8.   Off-site pollution protection
   
9.   Inspection
   
10.   Transfer of private ownership
   
11.   Property ownership
   
12.   Minimum design standards for new utilities
   
13.   Utility accommodation
   
14.   Contracts with subdivision developers
   
15.   Service requirements
   
16.   Water quality
   
17.   Water pressure
   
18.   Metering water use
   
19.   Mandatory connection
   
20.   Connection of building
   
21.   Building permits and subdivision plats
   
22.   Connection responsibility and costs
   
23.   Rules and regulations
   
24.   Right of entry for investigation and inspection
   
25.   Exceptions
   
26.   Penalty
Effluent Disposal Policy
   
35.   Definitions
   
36.   Approval of City Commission required for disposal of effluent generated
outside city
   
37.   Effluent generated within city to be disposed of at approved site; manner
of disposal
   
38.   Plan for effluent disposal system
   
39.   Rules and regulations for effluent disposal
   
40.   Powers of City Commission
   
41.   Conflicting provisions
   
42.   Variances
   
43.   Minimum requirements
   
44.   Existing laws
Waterline Project Engineering Requirements
   
55.   Approval
   
56.   Scope and intent
   
57.   Variances, waivers, and amendments
   
58.   Trade names of materials
   
59.   Conflicting regulations
   
60.   General procedures and requirements
   
61.   Application
   
62.   Sheeting and bracing materials
   
63.   Workmanship
   
64.   Minimum standards
   
65.   Crossing requirements
   
66.   Permit documents and data
   
67.   Casing pipe materials and installation
   
68.   Application
   
69.   Pipe fittings
   
70.   Valves
   
71.   Installation
   
72.   Application
   
73.   Design standards
   
74.   Standard requirements
   
75.   Testing
   
76.   Disinfecting
   
77.   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public utility construction, services, and operations, see §§
52.060 through
52.077
SANITARY SEWAGE; PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY
§ 1 GENERAL.
   It is declared and determined that the intent of §§
1 through
26 of this appendix, and the rules and regulations enacted herein, shall be to
regulate and control sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal
systems, and to control public water supply, treatment, and distribution
systems in the city, as is necessary and essential for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare, and as is necessary and essential to
provide for the orderly growth of the city. The particular public utilities
designated and described herein are declared to be vested with a public
interest subject to governmental regulation, supervision, and control, and
these regulations shall be deemed and construed as the exercise of the police
power for protection of the vested public interest of the city's citizens,
residents, and visitors. It is the intent of these regulations to provide for
the reasonable and uniform regulation, supervision, and control of water and
sewerage systems in respect to charges and rates, standards of service, quality
of water, adequacy of collection and disposition of sewage, service areas, and
other matters pertaining to public utilities that directly affect the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 2 PRE-DESIGN CONFERENCE.
   It is strongly recommended that pre-design conferences between the owner,
his engineer, and the City Engineer be held.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 3 UTILITY COORDINATION.
   It shall be up to the developer to coordinate all utilities concerning his
development. All utilities shall be given a minimum two-week notice prior to
commencement of construction.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 4 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Utility lines of all kinds, including, but not limited to, those of
franchised utilities, electric power and light, telephone and telegraph, cable
television, water, sewer, and gas, shall be constructed and installed beneath
the surface of the ground unless it is determined by the City Engineer that
soil, topographical, or any other compelling conditions make the installation
of utility lines as prescribed herein unreasonable or impracticable.
   (B)   It shall be the developer's responsibility to make the necessary
arrangements with each utility in accordance with the utility's established
policies.
   (C)   The underground installation of incidental appurtenances, such as
transformer boxes, pedestal mounted boxes for electricity, or similar service
hardware necessary for the provision of electric and communication utilities,
shall not be required.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any entity
furnishing utility service within the city from collecting, as a condition
precedent to the installation of service facilities, any fee, prepayment, or
contribution in aid of construction which may be required.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 5 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND COST.
   (A)   Estimates for initial facilities, and for all additions and
enlargements thereof, shall be prepared by a competent engineer registered in
the state. The plans and specifications shall be submitted to and approved by
the State Division of Health and Rehabilitation Services, the State Department
of Environmental Regulation, and the city, before the construction, addition,
or enlargement of the facility is commenced.
   (B)   Application for approval by the city shall consist of two copies of
the plans and specifications, the State Board of Health or Department of
Environmental Regulation currently-used application form, and the State Board
of Health or Department of Environmental Regulation approval or conditional
approval thereof. Standard specifications and drawings may be utilized.
Following original submittal and approval, standard drawings and specifications
may be omitted from subsequent submissions.
   (C)   The city will process plans and documents prior to receipt of the
State Board of Health or Department of Environmental Regulation approval, but
will not give final approval until the State Board of Health or Department of
Environmental Regulation approval letter has been received by the city and
reviewed. Any significant deviation of construction from approved plans shall
be made only after the utility receives approval for deviation from the above-
designated agencies. Reference is hereby made to other appropriate city
regulations for building permits, and conditions of road opening permits and
construction.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to inspect the construction of any work
being constructed under the provisions of this appendix, and to take any
appropriate action allowed under §§
1 through
26 of this appendix. The city also has the right to inspect construction, but
is not obligated to so inspect or make any intermediate or final approvals of
any part or the whole of the construction, except with regard to the
requirements of the city's building code.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 6 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Notification. The City Engineer shall be notified in writing of the
proposed date of the beginning of construction. Any time that work is to stop
for a period of time in excess of five working days, other than stoppage beyond
the contractor's control, the City Engineer shall be notified of the
interruption.
   (B)   Pre-construction conference. A pre-construction conference shall be
held at least two days before the commencement of construction. The developer
shall be responsible for arranging this conference with the City Engineer.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 7 COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the completion of any construction authorized
by the city, the public utility will submit the following data to the city:
      (1)   As-built drawings or plans on cloth or mylar and reproducible by
the diazo process;
      (2)   A responsible registered engineer's certificate stating that the
facilities were constructed according to as-built plans.
   (B)   At the time the utility submits its annual report as required
elsewhere, it shall furnish certified cost data, including land costs,
construction, financing, engineering, and legal costs, and other required data
in any form the city may prescribe.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 8 OFF-SITE POLLUTION PROTECTION.
   It will be the developer's responsibility to provide downstream siltation
protection during construction. In the event protection is inadequate, it will
be the developer's responsibility to remove any downstream siltation prior to
the time of final inspection.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 9 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Periodic. The City Engineer or his designee will periodically visit
the project site to make a visual inspection of the progress of the work and
methods of construction. Upon observation of work not done in accordance with
the plans and specifications, the City Engineer will notify the developer's
contractor and the developer or his designee, and request that the necessary
corrections be made or tests performed to assure compliance with the
specifications, at no cost to the city.
   (B)   Final. The City Engineer shall be notified when the project is
complete. Upon receiving a prior verbal request of 24 hours, excluding weekends
and holidays, for final inspection of the completed work, the City Engineer's
representatives, together with the representatives of other interested
agencies, shall perform the final inspection.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Cross-reference:
   Right of entry for investigation and inspection, see §
24 in this appendix
§ 10 TRANSFER OF PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
   When transfer of private facilities to public ownership takes place, all
such private facilities shall be brought up to the current city standards at no
cost to the city insofar as construction and maintenance are concerned before
the city will accept the facilities. Proof of satisfactory completion of the
facilities, satisfactory water bacteriological tests, approved State Department
of Environmental Regulation construction applications, maintenance bond,
itemized construction costs, and all appropriate legal documents shall be
furnished to the City Engineer prior to acceptance.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 11 PROPERTY OWNERSHIP.
   All facilities to be owned and maintained by the city shall be located on
city property, within city rights-of-way, or on easements dedicated to the city
for the uses intended.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 12 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS FOR NEW UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sewerage facilities shall be designed, constructed, and
operated according to the requirements and recommendations of the State
Division of Health and Rehabilitation Services or Department of Environmental
Regulation.
   (B)   All water utilities shall include the following in their facilities:
      (1)   Chlorination (disinfection) of all water supplies prior to
distribution;
      (2)   A suitable master meter or measuring device at each source of
supply to maintain a record of the water produced and pumped into the
distribution system;
      (3)   A distribution system with lines conforming to current American
Water Works Association standards for materials, and designed to be capable of
delivering, in addition to domestic requirements, minimum fire flows of 500
g.p.m. in residential areas and 1,250 g.p.m. in commercial, institutional, or
industrial areas at residual pressure of 20 p.s.i.;
      (4)   Improved fire hydrants conforming to A.W.W.A.-C502, spaced no
further than 500 feet on center in areas or development containing multi-family
dwelling units, commercial, institutional, or industrial uses, and 1000 feet on
center in areas or development containing one or two family dwelling units.
Water mains shall be no less than eight inches in diameter in commercial areas
and six inches in diameter in residential areas. The city may require larger
diameter water mains for long lines that are not connected to other mains at
intervals close enough for proper mutual support, or as may be required to
provide the fire flows and residual pressures specified.
      (5)   A distribution system designed to avoid dead ends in its mains, and
providing an adequate number of valves conforming to A.W.W.A.-C500, as well as
facilities for periodic flushing of mains;
      (6)   Sufficient storage or emergency pumping facilities to assure the
maintenance of the minimum fire flows required for at least four hours; and
      (7)   Duplicate facilities, as much as is reasonable and practical, and
as the City Commission may determine for the particular installation.
      (8)   It is not the intent of these regulations to necessarily fix the
responsibility for performance and maintenance of fire flows and fire pressures
under all operating conditions on the public utility. It is the intent of these
regulations that the facilities will be designed to meet the design standards
of these regulations.
   (C)   Sewerage utilities will provide plants and equipment with proven
satisfactory experience records, and will provide for the following:
      (1)   Chlorination of all plant effluents;
      (2)   A minimum of complete secondary treatment and any additional
treatment that the State Board of Health or Department of Environmental
Regulation may require;
      (3)   Disposal of treated and chlorinated effluent to a stream or body of
water providing adequate flow dilution or disposal of the effluent to the
ground, all according to the State Board of Health requirements.
      (4)   The following will be provided whenever reasonable and practical,
as the City Commission may determine for the particular installation:
         (a)   Flow measurement devices and discharge pressure gauge at lift
stations and plants (a minimum of elapsed time meters on system lift stations
and plant lift stations will be provided); and
         (b)   Duplicate facilities, or auxiliary power to provide continuous
service during equipment breakdown or maintenance and power failure as may be
reasonable and proper for the individual installation.
   (D)   In areas not likely to become developed further, or in other
appropriate cases, the City Commission may in its discretion except certain of
the above minimum design standards as it may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1056, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 13 UTILITY ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   Easements. The term "utility easement" shall allow, but not be limited
to, the installation of sanitary and storm sewers, water, gas, electrical,
telephone and telegraph, cable television lines, and drainage easements. These
shall be provided for as follows:
      (1)   Easements centered on side or rear lot lines shall be provided
where deemed necessary, and be at least 15 feet in width. Additional width may
be required for sewer drainage easements. Side lot line easements may be
decreased to ten feet in width when serving a single electric or telephone
utility. All utility services shall be installed underground, including
electric power, telephone, and community antenna television service. Both main
transmission lines and individual service connection lines to buildings shall
be installed underground. However, it shall not be necessary to install the
services underground in subdivisions where the building lots are one acre or
larger in area.
      (2)   Where a proposed subdivision is traversed by or abuts a water
course, drainageway, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement
or drainage right-of-way which shall conform substantially with the limits of
the water course, drainageway, canal, or stream, and any further width or
construction, or both, which will be adequate for the purpose. Where a
drainageway or canal is required, an easement approved as adequate by the City
Engineer shall be provided for maintenance purposes. Parallel streets,
parkways, landscaping, or fencing may be required in connection therewith.
      (3)   Waterways which are constructed or improved for the purpose of
providing access by water to lots within a subdivision, shall have a minimum
easement or right-of-way width of 100 feet; however, where adequate seawalls
are provided, the minimum right-of way width may be reduced to 60 feet.
      (4)   Environmental control easements will be required, as necessary, for
all retention/detention ponds, berms, swales, and other pollution control
measures. No modification or demolition of any approved measure within the
easement may be done without the approval of the city.
      (5)   Drainage easements for storm sewers shall be provided as determined
necessary by the city.
      (6)   Where necessary for safety and convenience, pedestrian, bicycle,
and service easements of suitable width shall be required as determined by the
city.
         (a)   Off-site easements.
            1.   Any off-site easements which are needed to make the system
function, shall be included in the proposal for development and made criteria
for plan approval.
            2.   Easements for all facilities must be shown on construction
drawings and approved by the city. The easements and rights-of-way must be
executed, accepted by the City Commission, and recorded in the public records
prior to issuance of a building permit.
         (b)   No city expense. Easements shall be provided at no expense to
the city.
   (B)   The placement of utilities within the public rights-of-way and public
easements shall be placed in accordance with all applicable codes and current
industry standards.
   (C)   Provisions.
      (1)   Light poles. At least 18 feet from edge of pavement or at right-of-
way line. Poles permitted within 12 feet from edge of through pavement,
provided frangible base is used, or behind barrier. A minimum distance of six
feet will be required from the edge of pavement on deceleration and
acceleration lanes. Where design permits, 14-foot clearance shall be used. In
curb and gutter section, at right-of-way line or four-foot minimum from face of
nonmountable curb to front of pole. Median location will be approved only if
the distance to the pole is 18 feet from edge of pavement, or 12 feet with
frangible base or behind barrier (edge of pavement does not include shoulder
pavement).
      (2)   Utility poles, fire hydrants, and the like. At right-of-way line,
poles may be located up to six and one-half feet from right-of-way line
provided that they are at least 18 feet from edge of pavement, and in curb and
gutter section, at right-of-way line or four feet minimum from face of
nonmountable curb to front of pole. Poles not permitted in median (edge of
pavement does not include shoulder pavement) except for temporary construction
purposes, where incorporated within a suitable barrier system.
      (3)   Underground (parallel). Minimum vertical clearance 36 inches below
top of roadway pavement, and 36 inches maximum cover below existing ground.
      (4)   Crossing (aerial). Shall be in accordance with the National
Electric Safety Code, and a minimum of 18 feet over roadways.
      (5)   Crossing (underground). Minimum vertical clearance 36 inches below
top of roadway pavement, and 36 inches below ground line, including ditch
grade.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 14 CONTRACTS WITH SUBDIVISION DEVELOPERS.
   (A)   All public utilities under this appendix are authorized to enter into
reasonable contracts with the owner or owners of all or substantially all of
the lots in a subdivision or parcels of land in an area within the utility's
service area for the purpose of furnishing water or sewer service, or both, to
any subdivision or area. Any proposed contract shall either conform to the
terms and conditions prescribed by rules approved by the City Commission, or
first be submitted to and approved by the City Commission. No contract shall be
approved by the City Commission that is contrary to the public interest or
would adversely affect the utility's ability to render adequate and efficient
service to its existing customers.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to, nor affect, any
bona fide contract or agreement entered into and delivered prior to February
12, 1975; and in respect to these contracts, the provisions of this appendix
governing the regulation of rates and charges shall apply only to rates and
charges for service after the installation and connection of the facilities of
the public utilities made under the prior contracts.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 15 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Commission shall have the power to prescribe fair and
reasonable classifications and extension policies, uniform standards of quality
and measurement, minimum standards of service, and service rules and
regulations to be observed, adhered to, and complied with by every public
utility. These shall be prescribed only after holding a public hearing on the
proposed classification, standard, rule, or regulation. All public utilities
shall observe, adhere to, and comply with minimum standards of quality,
measurement, and service prescribed by the City Commission.
   (B)   Each public utility shall furnish to each person applying therefor and
eligible for service under the provisions of this appendix, within the
territory authorized to be served by the utility, reasonably adequate and
sufficient service on any reasonable terms required by the City Commission. No
public utility shall make or give any undue or unreasonable advantage to any
person or territory, or subject any person or territory to any undue or
unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect.
   (C)   The City Commission shall have the power, and it shall be its duty, to
establish additional reasonable standards of service for each class of public
utility defined in this appendix, after notice and public hearing, and
thereafter to enforce the standards. In performing this duty, the City
Commission shall exercise its powers to conduct investigations and inspections,
make examinations and tests, prescribe standards of measurement for testing the
quality, pressure, or other conditions pertaining to the supply or quality of
the product furnished or adequacy of the service rendered by any public
utility, and fix fees for the examination and testing of meters and other
measuring devices, as provided by law in establishing the general regulatory
powers of the City Commission, and as directed in this appendix. Additional
minimum standards of design, service, performance, acceptable materials, and
equipment to those included in this appendix will be set from time to time by
the City Commission to conform with current technology and acceptable practice
in order to protect the health, safety, welfare, and natural resources, and to
promote the orderly growth of the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 16 WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   Every utility furnishing water service for human consumption or for
domestic uses shall provide water that meets the State Division of Health and
Rehabilitation Services and the State Department of Environmental Regulation
rules, and is wholesome, potable, and free from objectionable turbidity, color,
odors, and tastes. No water shall be delivered to the public without proper
disinfection as prescribed by the State Division of Health and Rehabilitation
Services and the State Department of Environmental Regulation. On special
request by the city, copies of bacteriological tests made as required by the
State Department of Environmental Regulation rules and regulations shall be
promptly forwarded to the city by the utility.
   (B)   Any bacteriological tests that are deemed unsatisfactory by the State
Division of Health and Rehabilitation Services and the State Department of
Environmental Regulation shall be immediately repeated. If the repeat test is
not satisfactory, the utility shall immediately inform the city by telephone or
in person, and the utility shall take immediate steps to correct these
conditions.
   (C)   Copies of the chemical and physical analyses made, as required by the
State Division of Health and Rehabilitation Services and the State Department
of Environmental Regulation rules and regulations, shall be promptly forwarded
to the city by the utility. Complete chemical and physical analyses will be
required at least once every year.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 17 WATER PRESSURE.
   Adequate pressure shall be maintained in the distribution system in order to
provide reasonably adequate and continuous flows and pressures for the purposes
intended. Every utility shall have, or have reasonably prompt access to, one or
more recording pressure gauges, calibrated regularly by a certified testing
laboratory or against a certified test gauge, for the purpose of making
continuous 24-hour pressure surveys as may be conducted at the request of the
City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 18 METERING WATER USE.
   (A)   All water sold by a utility shall be on the basis of metered volume
sales; however, the utility may, at its option, provide a flat rate or estimate
service to the following:
      (1)   Temporary service where the water use can readily be estimated.
      (2)   Public and private fire protection service.
      (3)   Water used for street sprinkling and sewer flushing when provided
for by agreement between the utility and the city or other agency or person.
      (4)   Special cases subject to specific approval by the City Commission
for small systems in which both customers and utility prefer to utilize a flat
rate system and meters are deemed not practical.
   (B)   Meter and installation requirements, meter accuracy requirements, and
examination and testing procedures and requirements for meters, will be set by
the City Commission following public hearing at any time the City Commission
determines the need exists for additional regulations.
   (C)   The city will not be responsible for utility lines entering privately-
owned, commercial, industrial, or residential property which may or may not
include multiple meters. In these cases a master meter shall be placed at the
line head, which the city will read covering all the units in the complexes.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 19 MANDATORY CONNECTION.
   (A)   Because of the increasing population and the possibility of increasing
contamination of the ground and surface waters, and other related matters, the
City Commission deems that it is to the best interest of the health, safety,
and general welfare of the public to encourage the extension of public water
and sewer systems and to require connection to the extended franchised or city-
owned extensions to water and sewage collection systems whenever either system
is extended to within 100 feet of the property line of any property to be
served. However, if a property owner currently has a private well furnishing
water for consumption by human beings and an extension of the system is within
100 feet of the property, then he shall be required to tie in to the system for
the supply of water for human consumption, but may maintain the private water
supply for outdoor watering or agricultural purposes.
   (B)   Where the property line of any property lies within 100 feet of a
franchised or city-owned water or sewage collection system, then the property
owner is prohibited from constructing any septic tanks or private waste
disposal systems and wells where the use of water from the wells is meant for
human consumption. Where the property lies within 100 feet of a franchised or
city-owned water or sewage collection system, no permits will be issued for the
construction of septic tanks or water wells; however, wells for outdoor
watering or agricultural purposes will be permitted.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 20 CONNECTION OF BUILDING.
   (A)   The owner, tenant, or occupant of each lot or parcel of land which
abuts the street, other public way, or easement containing a sanitary sewer
(not a force main), or water main of a public utility, holding a valid
certificate of public convenience and necessity from the City Commission for
the territory, and on which a building is located or is to be constructed for
residential or any other purposes in which a water supply is or may be used for
human consumption, or in which a deleterious wastewater will be produced, shall
connect the building to the certificated sanitary sewer or water main within
120 days after the franchised public utility's facilities are available, and
shall not thereafter use any other method for the disposal of sewerage or other
polluting waste matter. A water main and sanitary sewer shall be deemed to abut
a lot or parcel for purposes of this appendix if the lot or parcel is less than
100 feet from the utility line along or across a public right-of-way or utility
easement.
   (B)   Lawns and other irrigation systems and swimming pools may be served by
a separate private water supply system, however, interconnection of any kind
will not be permitted between the private system and the public utility system,
its water mains, the utility's water service line, the customer's water line,
the building, potable water plumbing pipes, nor any pipe or line connected or
extended from any of the aforesaid.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 21 BUILDING PERMITS AND SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued to any person in the service area
of a public utility holding a valid certificate of public convenience and
necessity, until the Building and Zoning Department is furnished with adequate
proof that the completed building will be connected to the franchised public
utility's sewer systems serving the property, or a statement from the public
utility stating why service cannot be rendered, and the statement is deemed
just cause to except this requirement.
   (B)   Every proposed subdivision plat that is in a service area of a public
utility with a valid franchise, shall not be approved until the subdivision or
the developer furnishes the city with evidence that adequate arrangements have
been made to assure that all buildings constructed in a proposed subdivision
will be connected to the franchised public utility's sewer systems serving the
territory, or supplies the City Commission with an affidavit from the
franchised public utility stating why no services can be rendered, and the
statement is deemed just cause to except this requirement.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 22 CONNECTION RESPONSIBILITY AND COSTS.
   The cost and arrangement for construction of the customer's sewer and water
service lines from the utility's service lines, in general at the property line
to the building, are the responsibility of the customer to arrange and pay for.
The cost of the utility's water and sewer service lines and connection to the
utility's main lines are the responsibility of the utility to construct, and
the cost is to be borne by the customer according to a standard, uniform, and
reasonable and proper basis, which shall be part of the utility's standard
published rate schedule. All sewer and water connections shall be made by a
licensed plumber, subject to standards acceptable to the utility, and shall be
subject to the inspection and approval of a duly-authorized representative of
the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Commission shall make and prescribe any rules and regulations that
are reasonably necessary and appropriate for the proper administration,
regulation, control, and enforcement of the intent of §§
1 through
26 of this appendix. Rules and regulations shall not conflict with the
constitution and general laws of the state, and shall govern and control
procedures, hearings, and actions of the City Commission and the public
utilities regulated thereunder. No rules and regulations shall become effective
until a public hearing has been held on the proposed rules and regulations, nor
any amendments or modifications thereto, until they have been approved by the
City Commission and filed with the City Clerk. On approval by the City
Commission, the rules and regulations shall have the force and effect of law
within the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 24 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION.
   Members of the City Commission, or duly-authorized representatives of the
City Commission, may, during all reasonable hours, enter any premises or
property owned, operated, or occupied by a public utility, and may set up and
use thereon all necessary apparatus and appliances for the purpose of making
investigations, inspections, examinations, and tests, and of exercising any of
the powers conferred upon the City Commission by this appendix. However, the
public utility shall have the right to be notified of, and be represented at,
the making of the investigations, inspections, examinations, or tests.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
Penalty, see § 26
§ 25 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any owner, tenant, or occupant of property who would be required to pay a
connection charge to a utility, in accordance with the standard rate schedule
filed with the City Commission, may petition the City Commission for an
exception from the connection requirement of this appendix. If the City
Commission finds that the connection charge is not just and reasonable, it
shall grant an exception from the connection requirements, provided the
exception does not conflict with the findings or orders of the County Health
Department or the State Division of Health and Rehabilitation Services and the
State Department of Environmental Regulation. Service lines to buildings are
the responsibility of property owners, and the costs thereof shall not be
considered by the City Commission in granting the exceptions.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 26 PENALTY.
   If any public utility, or any officer, agent, representative, or employee
thereof, or other person, shall knowingly fail or refuse to obey or comply
with, or willfully violates, any of the provisions of §§
1 through
26 of this appendix, or any lawful provision promulgated hereunder, or any
lawful order of the City Commission issued or rendered under and pursuant to
the provisions of §§
1 through
26 of this appendix, the public utility, or its officers, agents,
representatives, or employees, or other persons, on conviction of the offense,
shall incur a penalty for each offense of not more than $500, to be fixed,
imposed, and collected by the City Commission. Each day that the refusal or
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Each penalty shall be
a lien on the real or personal property of the public utility, enforceable by
the City Commission as statutory liens under F.S. Chapter 85.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
EFFLUENT DISPOSAL POLICY
§ 35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
35 through
44 of this appendix the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED SITE. A site for effluent disposal approved and permitted by the
Florida Department of Regulation, or successor agency, and the city.
   ASSIMILATIVE CAPACITY. The capacity of the soil-plant system to receive
effluent without violating the requirements of the Department of Environmental
Regulation, or successor agency, as outlined in the Florida Administrative Code
Chapter 17.
   EFFLUENT. Treated wastewater flowing out of a treatment plant and suitable
for land application by spray irrigation, according to the rules and
regulations of the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation or successor
agency.
   EFFLUENT DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any facility designed or utilized for the release
of effluent for land application by spray irrigation and approved by the
Florida Department of Environmental Regulation or successor agency.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to which a permit for an effluent disposal system is
issued by the Department of Environmental Regulation, or successor agency, and
by the city authorizing disposal within the city limits.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 36 APPROVAL OF CITY COMMISSION REQUIRED FOR DISPOSAL OF EFFLUENT GENERATED
OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Effluent generated from a source outside the city limits shall not be
disposed of within the city limits by any public or private person without the
written approval of the City Commission, or its designated agent. No such
effluent shall be accepted unless the City Commission, upon recommendation by
the city staff, determines that the supply of effluent generated within the
city limits is sufficiently low as to warrant acceptance of effluent generated
from outside the city limits.
   (B)   No permittee may accept effluent from a source outside the city limits
for disposal upon permittee's property without first obtaining written
verification from the city staff that the assimilative capacity of permittee's
property cannot be satisfied by sources of effluent within the city limits. The
City Commission shall make its determination based on the facts presented to it
by city staff regarding the overall amount of effluent available within the
city limits as a whole for irrigation and other purposes, the amount of
effluent projected by city staff to be available in the future, and any other
factors which the City Commission or city staff deems appropriate.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 37 EFFLUENT GENERATED WITHIN CITY TO BE DISPOSED OF AT APPROVED SITE; MANNER
OF DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Unless otherwise approved by the city, no effluent generated within
the city limits shall be disposed of outside the city limits if capacity to
accept effluent for disposal exists at any approved site within the city
limits.
   (B)   The city staff shall designate the manner in which any person shall
dispose of effluent within the city limits. However, such manner shall not
conflict with any rules, regulations, or permit of the Florida Department of
Environmental Regulation or successor agency.
   (C)   A permittee must dispose of effluent upon an approved site within the
development, project, or system (the "property") from which it is generated, if
the property lies within the city limits, to the property's maximum
assimilative capacity or until the supply generated therefrom is exhausted,
whichever occurs first. If the amount of effluent generated by the property
exceeds its assimilative capacity for disposal, then the permittee must apply
to the city staff for another approved site, within the city limits, which city
staff shall designate for disposal of the surplus. The city reserves the right
to perform its own independent testing of the quality and volume of sewage
generated by a permittee.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 38 PLAN FOR EFFLUENT DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person who desires to create, expand, own, or operate an effluent
disposal system on public or private lands within the city shall submit a plan,
satisfactory to the city, for such effluent disposal system and obtain a permit
from the city prior to beginning construction.
   (B)   Any person who submits a plan for development within the city after
the effective date of §§ 35 through 44 of this appendix shall submit as part of
any development plan, a plan, satisfactory to the city, and obtain a permit
from the city, for the disposal of effluent generated as a result of the
proposed development.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 39 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR EFFLUENT DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Any effluent disposal system within the city limits must comply with
all appropriate sections of the City Code and the rules and regulations of the
Florida Department of Environmental Regulation or successor agency, in
particular the following provisions of the Lake Mary Land Development Code:
      (1)   Subdivision Regulations, §
155.33(B) Individual Waste Water Disposal Systems.
      (2)   Site Plan Regulations (§§
156.01 through
156.16) and Required Submittals for Site Plan Application, §
156.21.
   (B)   The permittee shall ensure that all necessary information required by
the City Land Development Code is presented to the city staff for review and
complies with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
   (C)   Any effluent disposal system expanded or created within the city shall
be governed by the provisions of §§
35 through
44 of this appendix and the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, or
successor agency, and adhere to all local, state, and federal standards and
guidelines heretofore or hereafter set forth.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 40 POWERS OF CITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Commission shall make and prescribe all rules and regulations
that are reasonably necessary and appropriate for the proper administration,
regulation, control, and enforcement of the intent of this policy.
   (B)   The City Commission shall have the right of final approval or
disapproval of any effluent disposal system expanded or created after the
effective date of §§
35 through
44 of this appendix.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 41 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this policy imposes any restriction different from that
imposed by any other provision of this policy, or any other rule, regulation,
or other provision of law, the more restrictive provision, or the higher
standard, shall control.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 42 VARIANCES.
   The City Commission may grant variances to the regulations set forth in §§
35 through
44 of this appendix, in the manner set forth by the City Code, when the
variance will not be contrary to the public interest, and where owing to
special considerations, a literal enforcement would result in unnecessary
hardship.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 43 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of §§
35 through
44 of this appendix shall be interpreted to be the minimum requirements for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
§ 44 EXISTING LAWS.
   Sections
35 through
44 of this appendix shall not abrogate or annul any existing contract, rule,
regulation, statute, or other provision of state or federal law.
(Ord. 305, passed 8-13-87)
WATERLINE PROJECT ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS
§ 55 APPROVAL.
   These design standards are accepted and approved by the Lake Mary City
Commission.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 56 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is intended for these development procedures to establish minimum
engineering requirements for projects submitted to the city. The development
procedures will apply to all development and construction projects, both public
and private, within the jurisdiction of the City Commission.
   (B)   The specifications set forth herein are meant to provide minimum
standards for the construction of water and transmission lines which meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   Facilities to be constructed within city rights-of-way.
      (2)   Facilities to be turned over to the city for operation.
      (3)   Facilities to become a permanent part of the city utilities system.
   (C)   These specifications are not meant to be totally restrictive in
nature; that is, they do not depict the only acceptable method of design.
Rather, their purpose is to describe minimum acceptable standards of
construction and to promote uniformity where practical. It is felt that
adherence to the standards presented in this booklet will benefit both the
citizens of the city and the operators of the facilities.
   (D)   Should any design be submitted which varies appreciably from the
standards set herein or uses materials other than those recommended, it should
be accompanied by appropriate supporting documentation or engineering studies.
   (E)   Please note that all plans submitted for review must be in conformance
with all federal, state, and county regulations and codes. In no case shall
minimum standards be less than those established by recognized private and
governmental agencies, unless stated otherwise in these specifications.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 57 VARIANCES, WAIVERS, AND AMENDMENTS.
   Under extreme conditions with specific applications the following guidelines
may be altered to meet certain conditions that are beyond the control of the
developer and provided such deviations or alterations are acceptable to the
city. Final decisions concerning variances and amendments shall be made by the
City Commission upon recommendation of the Water Department.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 58 TRADE NAMES OF MATERIALS.
   Wherever a product is called for by name "or equal" shall be assumed to be
included.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 59 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to have the effect of repealing any
existing ordinances concerning the subject matter of this ordinance, but the
regulations established herein shall be supplemental and cumulative; however,
in the case of a direct conflict with a provision or provisions of any existing
ordinance, the provision which is more restrictive and imposes higher standards
or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 60 GENERAL PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pre-design conference. It is strongly recommended that pre-design
conferences between the owner, his engineer and the Water Department be held.
   (B)   Plans.
      (1)   Submission.
         (a)   All construction plans submitted to the Water Department for
review and approval shall bear the seal and signature of the Florida Registered
Professional Engineer responsible for the project. The address and telephone
number of this person shall be shown along with the signature.
         (b)   Two sets of plans and specifications shall be submitted for
approval to the city. One approved set shall be returned to the engineer for
the construction of the project.
      (2)   Assembly. The standard size sheet for construction plans submitted
to the city for approval shall be 24 inch by 36 inch. Work sheets and data
sheets used in preliminary design work and reviews are not limited to any size,
except that which is convenient to handle.
      (3)   Utility coordination. It shall be up to the developer to coordinate
all utilities concerning his development.
      (4)   City standards and specifications. Copies of city standards and
specifications may be obtained from the city for a fee, as adopted from time to
time by the Commission.
   (C)   Construction.
      (1)   Start.
         (a)   Notification. The city shall be notified in writing of the
proposed date of the beginning of construction of the water facilities. Any
time that work is to stop for a period of time in excess of five working days,
the city shall be notified of such interruption.
         (b)   Pre-construction conference. A pre-construction conference shall
be held at least two days before the commencement of construction. The
developer shall be responsible for arranging this conference with the Water
Department.
      (2)   Completion.
         (a)   As-built drawings. Two weeks prior to final inspection, the
developer shall submit two sets, one a hard copy and the other an electronic
copy, of as-built drawings to the city. These drawings shall be blue line
prints signed by a registered engineer (the same one responsible for the
originally approved design), attesting to the fact that the plans are, in fact,
correct. If the as-built conditions differ from the approved construction plans
in such a way that the City Engineer deems unacceptable, the city reserves the
right to deny approval of the site and demand that the errors be corrected
regardless of the cost to the developer.
         (b)   Certificates of compliance. Certificates of compliance with the
specifications furnished by the material supplier shall be submitted on all
material used in the completion of this work upon request by the city.
      (3)   Off-site pollution protection. It will be the developer's
responsibility to provide downstream siltation protection during construction.
In the event such protection is inadequate, it will be the developer's
responsibility to remove any downstream siltation prior to the time of final
inspection.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   Periodic. The Water Department will periodically visit the project
site to make a visual inspection of the progress of the work and methods of
construction. Upon observation of work not done in accordance with the plans
and specifications, the inspector will notify the developer's contractor and
the developer or his designee and request that the necessary corrections be
made or tests performed to assure compliance with the specifications, at no
cost to the city.
      (2)   Final. The Water Department shall be notified in writing when the
project is complete. Upon receiving a verbal request for final inspection of
the completed work, the Water Department representatives, together with the
representatives of other interested agencies, shall perform the final
inspection and by letter shall notify the developer's engineer of the results
of the inspection within two weeks of the receipt of the request. In the case
of facilities dedication to the city, the final inspection will be conducted as
a final acceptance inspection after all necessary materials are submitted.
   (E)   Bonds. All items or systems must be designed in such a manner as to
minimize future maintenance. A performance bond of 110% of the estimated
construction costs of the water facilities will be required when necessary. A
two year maintenance bond of 10% of the final construction costs shall be
posted before the facilities are transferred to the city.
   (F)   Transfer of private ownership. When transfer of private facilities to
public ownership takes place, all such private facilities shall be brought up
to the current city standards at no cost to the city in so far as construction
and maintenance are concerned before the city will accept such facilities.
Proof of satisfactory completion of water facilities, satisfactory water
bacteriological tests, approved FDER construction applications, maintenance
bond, itemized construction cost, and the appropriate legal deeds shall be
furnished to the city prior to acceptance.
   (G)   Property ownership. All facilities to be owned or maintained by the
city shall be located on city property, within city-county rights-of-way or on
easements dedicated to the city for the uses intended.
   (H)   Time period of approved plans. Plans shall be valid for construction
for a period of one year from the date of approval only. All items not under
construction at this one year date shall require a new approval prior to the
commencement of construction.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 1642, passed 6-17-22) Penalty, see
§ 77
§ 61 APPLICATION.
   The provisions set forth in this section shall be applicable to all
underground water piping installations, regardless of location, unless prior
approval is received from the city for special design considerations.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 62 SHEETING AND BRACING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Wood sheeting to be left in place shall be pressure treated.
   (B)   Steel sheeting to be left in place shall be as specified in ASTM
Designation A328.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 63 WORKMANSHIP.
   (A)   Trench dimensions. The minimum width of the trench shall be equal to
the outside diameter of the pipe at the joint plus eight inches for unsheeted
trench, or 12 inches for the sheeted trench, and the maximum width of trench,
measured at the top of the pipe, shall not exceed the outside pipe diameter
plus two feet, unless otherwise shown on the drawing details, or approved by
the city.
   (B)   Utility bedding.
      (1)   Class B (minimum utility bedding). The bottom of the trench shall
be shaped to provide a firm bedding for the pipe. The pipe shall be firmly
bedded in undisturbed firm soil, or hand shaped unyielding material. The
bedding shall be shaped so that the pipe will be continuous therewith for its
full length.
      (2)   Class A (special utility bedding). Should special bedding be
required due to depth of cover, impact loadings, or other conditions, "Class A"
bedding shall be installed.
   (C)   Unsuitable material below trench grade. Soil unsuitable for a proper
foundation encountered at or below trench grade, such as muck or other
deleterious material, shall be removed for the full width of the trench and to
the depth required to reach suitable foundation material, unless special design
considerations received prior approval from the city. Backfilling below trench
grade shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of division (K)
below.
   (D)   Extra utility-bedding material. When rock or other non-cushioning
material is encountered at trench grade, excavation shall be extended to six
inches below the outside of the bottom of the utility, and a cushion of sand or
suitable crushed rock shall be provided.
   (E)   Sheeting and bracing. In order to prevent damage to property, injury
to persons, erosion, cave-ins, or excessive trench widths, adequate sheeting
and bracing shall be provided in accordance with standard practice.
   (F)   Excavated material. Excavated material to be used for backfill shall
be neatly deposited at the sides of the trenches where space is available.
Where stockpilings of excavated material is required, the contractor shall be
responsible for obtaining the sites to be used.
   (G)   Material disposal. Excess, unsuitable, and cleared or grubbed material
resulting from the utility installation, shall be removed from the work site
and disposed of at locations secured by the contractor. Excess excavated
material shall be spread on the disposal site and graded in a manner to drain
properly and not disturb existing drainage conditions.
   (H)   Borrow. Should there be insufficient satisfactory material from the
excavations to meet the requirements for fill material, borrow shall be
obtained from pits secured by the contractor.
   (I)   Dewatering. Utilities shall be laid "in the dry" unless otherwise
approved. Dewatering system shall be utilized in accordance with good standard
practice and must be efficient enough to lower the water level in advance of
the excavation and maintain it continuously to keep the trench bottom and sides
firm and dry.
   (J)   Obstructions. It shall be the contractor's responsibility to acquaint
himself with all existing conditions and to locate all structures and utilities
along the proposed utility alignment in order to avoid conflicts. Where actual
conflicts are unavoidable, work shall be coordinated with the facility owner
and performed so as to cause as little interference as possible with the
service rendered by the facility disturbed.
   (K)   Backfill.
      (1)   Backfill material shall be clean earth fill composed of sand, clay
and sand, sand and rock, crushed rock, or an approved combination thereof.
      (2)   When trenches are cut in pavements or areas to be paved, compaction
as determined by AASHO Specification T-180, shall be equal to 98% of maximum
density, with compaction in other areas not less than 95% of maximum density.
      (3)   If, in the opinion of the city, densities are questionable, density
tests for determination of the above specified compaction shall be made by
testing laboratory approved by the city at the expense of the contractor. Test
locations will be determined by the city.
      (4)   If any test results are unsatisfactory, the contractor shall re-
excavate and re-compact the backfill at his expense until the desired
compaction is obtained.
      (5)   Protective concrete slabs shall be installed over the top of
trenches, where required, to protect the installed pipe against excessive
loads.
      (6)   Existing sidewalks and driveways removed, disturbed, or destroyed
by construction, shall be replaced or repaired.
   (L)   Roadway and pavement restoration.
      (1)   Pavement or roadway surfaces cut or damaged shall be replaced by
the contractor in equal or better condition than the original, including
stabilization, base course, surface course, curb and gutter, or other
appurtenances. The contractor shall obtain the necessary permits and all
applicable authorizations from the proper agencies prior to any roadway work.
Additionally, the contractor shall provide advance notice to the appropriate
authority, as required, prior to construction operations.
      (2)   Restoration shall be in accordance with requirements set forth by
the city. The materials of construction and method of installation, along with
the proposed restoration design for items not referred to or specified herein,
shall receive prior approval from the department.
      (3)   Where existing pavement is removed, the surfacing shall be
mechanically saw cut prior to trench excavation, leaving a uniform and straight
edge, with minimum disturbance to the remaining adjacent surfacing. The width
of cut of this phase of existing pavement removal shall be minimal.
      (4)   Immediately following the specified backfilling and compaction, a
temporary sand seal coat surface shall be applied to the cut areas. This
temporary surfacing shall provide a smooth traffic surface with the existing
roadway and shall be maintained until final restoration.
   (M)   Protection and restoration of property. During the course of
construction, the contractor shall take special care and provide adequate
protection in order to minimize damage to vegetation, surface areas, and
structures within the construction of right-of-way, easement or site, and take
full responsibility for the replacement or repair thereof.
   (N)   Clean-up. Work site clean-up and property restoration shall follow
behind construction operations without delay.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 64 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The provisions of §§
64 through
67 shall be the minimum standards for the installation of casing pipe by the
boring and jacking method of placement of water pipelines.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 65 CROSSING REQUIREMENTS.
   In general, all underground pipelines crossing existing major paved city
roadways, county roadways, state highways, and railroads shall be installed
under these trafficways within bored and jacket steel casing pipe. Specific
crossing requirements shall be obtained in advance from the authority having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 66 PERMIT DOCUMENTS AND DATA.
   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to submit the necessary
permit documents and data to the appropriate authority and receive approval
thereof.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 67 CASING PIPE MATERIALS AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Dimensions and materials. Casing pipes crossing under roadways shall
be located at suitable approved alignments in order to eliminate possible
conflict with existing or future utilities and structures, with a minimum 36
inches depth of cover between the top of the casing pipe and surface of the
roadway where practicable. Casings shall be new prime steel pipe conforming to
the requirements of ASTM Designation A-139. The minimum casing pipe size and
wall thickness shall be shown in the following table for the water carrier pipe
size indicated.
Carrier Pipe (Nominal) Size- Casing Pipe Outside Casing Pipe Wall Thickness-
Inches                       Diameter-Inches     Inches
Carrier Pipe (Nominal) Size- Casing Pipe Outside Casing Pipe Wall Thickness-
Inches                       Diameter-Inches     Inches
4                            12                 0.250
6                            14                  0.250
8                            16                  0.250
10                           18                  0.250
12                           20                  0.250
14                           22                  0.250
16                           24                  0.250
18                           28                  0.312
20                           30                  0.312
24                           34                  0.375
 
   (B)   Areas not under jurisdiction. For casing pipe crossings under
roadways, railroads, or other installations not within the jurisdiction of the
city, the contractor shall comply with the regulations of said authority in
regard to design, specifications, and construction.
   (C)   Workmanship.
      (1)   The boring and jacking operations shall be done simultaneously with
continuous installation, until the casing pipe is in final position. Correct
line and grade shall be carefully maintained. Add-on sections of casing pipe
shall be full-ring welded to the preceding length, developing watertight total
pipe strength joints. The casing installation shall produce no upheaval,
settlement, cracking, movement or distortion of the existing roadbed or other
facilities. Following placement of the carrier pipe within the steel casing,
masonry plugs are to be installed at each open end.
      (2)   Casing pipe holes shall be mechanically bored through the soil by a
cutting head on a continuous auger mounted inside the pipe. The auger shall
extend a minimum distance beyond the end of the pipe casing to preclude
formation of voids outside of the pipe shell.
      (3)   The casing pipe shall be adequately protected to prevent crushing
or other damage under jacking pressures.
      (4)   Required boring and jacking pits or shafts shall be excavated and
maintained to the minimum dimension. Said excavations shall be adequately
barricaded, sheeted, braced, and dewatered as required.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 68 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Sections
68 through
71 include the material and installation standards for pipe fittings, valves,
and appurtenances, as applicable to water installations.
   (B)   Required specialty items not included under §§
68 through
71 shall be high quality and consistent with approved standards of the industry
for the applicable service installation.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 69 PIPE FITTINGS.
   (A)   General. All pipe fittings shall be clearly marked with the name or
trademark of the manufacturer. All pipe and fittings shall be suitable for 150
psi working pressure.
   (B)   Cast and ductile iron.
      (1)   Cast iron pipe. Cast iron pipe shall be in accordance with ANSI
Standards A21.6. Pipe shall be laid in accordance with ANSI Standard A21.1.
Thickness class shall be governed by design conditions.
      (3)   Fittings. Cast and ductile iron pipe fittings shall conform to ANSI
Standard A21.10.
      (4)   Joints.
         (a)   "Push-on" and mechanical type joints shall be in accordance with
ANSI Standard A21.11.
         (b)   Restrained joint assemblies with mechanical joint pipe shall be
ductile iron mechanical joint retainer glands.
         (c)   Flanged connections shall be in accordance with ANSI Standard
B16.6, 125 lb. standards.
      (5)   Coatings and linings. Cast and ductile iron pipe and fittings shall
receive an interior and exterior bituminous coating as specified in ANSI
Specifications A21.6, A21.8, or A21.51, and shall be cement mortar lined and
bituminous sealed in accordance with ANSI Standard A21.4.
   (C)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
      (1)   Pipe fittings shall be manufactured from clean virgin Type 1, Grade
I rigid, unplasticized polyvinyl chloride resin conforming to ASTM Designation
D1785. The pipe shall bear the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) seal for
potable water pipe. Pipe shall have minimum standard dimension ratio (SDR) of
21 (ASTM D2241) for water.
      (2)   Connections for pipe 1-1/2 inches in diameter and larger shall be
rubber compression ring type. Pipe shall be extruded with integral thickened
wall bells without increase in SDR. Usage of twin gasket coupling type pipe
will be allowed as long as its quality is comparable to that of the integral
bell type. Rubber ring gaskets shall consist of synthetic compound meeting the
requirements of ASTM Designation D1869, and suitable for the designated
service. Other connections shall be solvent welded sleeve type joints.
   (D)   Polyethylene plastic pipe. Tubing shall comply with ASTM Designations
D-1248 (Materials), D-2737 (Tubing), be approved for potable water service by
the National Sanitation Foundation and bear the NSF seal. The product shall be
rated for a minimum working pressure of 150 psi and the standard dimension
ratio (SDR) shall not exceed nine for copper tube size. Fittings shall be
brass, equipped with compression type connections.
   (E)   Special items.
      (1)   Tapping saddles. Tapping saddles shall be fabricated of ductile
iron and suitable for either wet or dry installation and shall be as
manufactured by Mueller Corporation or approved equal. The sealing gasket shall
be the "O" ring type suitable for the applicable service. Outlet flange shall
be ANSI B16.1, 125 lb. standard. The straps and bolts shall be a corrosion
resistant alloy steel.
      (2)   Tapping sleeves and crosses. Tapping sleeves and crosses shall be
of mechanical joint type with outlet, flange ANSI B16.1, 125 lb. standard.
      (3)   Service saddles. Service saddles shall be as manufactured by Smith
& Blair, Inc., South San Francisco, California, or approved equal. Units for
cast or ductile iron and asbestos cement pipe shall be double strap, ductile
iron, Type 313 for plastic pipe, Types 342 or 352, as applicable. Sealing
gaskets shall be suitable for the applicable service and straps shall be
corrosion resistant alloy steel.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 70 VALVES.
   (A)   General. The valve type, size rating, flow direction arrow if
applicable, and manufacturer shall be clearly marked on each unit. Valves shall
open left (counterclockwise) with an arrow cast in the metal of operation
handwheels and nuts indicating the direction of opening.
      (1)   Valves for underground service. Valves shall be iron body, bronze
mounted, conforming to AWWA C500, double disc (water), non-rising stem type,
and shall be equipped with two-inch square cast iron wrench nuts.
      (2)   Valves for above-ground service. Valves shall be iron body, bronze
mounted gate valves, conforming to AWWA C-500, double disc (water) with the
exception that valves shall be outside screw and yoke (OS&Y) rising stem type.
Valves shall have cast iron hand wheels or chain operators with galvanized
steel chains, as required.
   (B)   Check valves. Valves shall be iron body, bronze mounted stainless
steel hinge pin, outside lever and springs operated, swing type, and equipped
with removable inspection covers. Units shall be rated for 150 psi minimum
working pressure and shall permit full flow area equal to that of the
connection pipe.
   (C)   Valve boxes. Units shall be adjustable, cast iron, minimum interior
diameter of five inches, with covers cast with the applicable inscription in
legible lettering on the top; "WATER". Boxes shall be suitable for the
applicable surface loading and valve size. Valve boxes not in the pavement
shall have around their tops concrete pads, which will be flush with the
finished grade at valve site (top of the curb or above if necessary) with
minimum dimensions of 18 by 18 by 3 inches.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 71 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Piping, fittings, valves, and appurtenances shall be installed in
accordance with these standards.
   (B)   Piping shall be installed along straight line and grade between
fittings, manholes, or other defined points, unless definite lines of
alignment, deflection or grade change have been established. Modification to
approved alignment or grade during construction shall receive prior approval
from the Water Department and all resulting design considerations shall be
resolved by the contractor.
   (C)   Materials shall be cleaned and maintained clean, with all coatings
protected from damage. The interior of the pipe shall be free of dirt and
debris, and when work is not in progress, all open ends shall be plugged.
   (D)   Pipe, valves, fittings, or other items shall be inspected prior to
installation, and any items showing a fracture or other defect shall be
rejected. However, cast or ductile iron pipe showing an end crack, with no
fracture indicated beyond that visible, may be salvaged by cutting off the
damaged section 12 inches past, providing the remaining pipe is sound.
   (E)   Underground piping shall not be driven to grade by striking it with an
unyielding object. When the pipe has been properly bedded, enough compacted
backfill shall be placed to hold the pipe in correct alignment. If necessary,
precaution should be taken to prevent flotation.
   (F)   Jointing shall be an approved method and shall not require undue force
to accomplish full satisfactory seating and assembly. Connections at structures
shall be cut accurately and worked into place without forcing and shall align
with the connecting point.
   (G)   Underground pressure piping systems shall be thoroughly braced with
concrete thrust blocks at fillings, valves and plugs. Fittings shall not be
encased in concrete or thrust blocks covered prior to inspection. If the soil
does not provide firm support, then suitable tie rods and clamps, or restrained
joint assemblies to support the fitting properly shall be provided.
   (H)   Subaqueous pipe laying may be permitted where conditions make it
impractical to lay pipe in the "dry", provided the contractor submits his plans
for laying pipe under water to the city and obtains advance approval thereof.
   (I)   Disinfecting all potable water pipes shall be accomplished by the
contractor following approved pressure testing. Unless alternate procedures are
set forth under the applicable service standard, said disinfecting procedures
shall be in accordance with AWWA Standard C601.
   (J)   Cast and ductile iron pipe (CI & DI) installation shall be performed
in accordance with the applicable provisions of AWWA Standard C600.
   (K)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe-lubrication and/or solvent for pipe and
fitting joints shall be non-toxic (NSF approved for potable water). Following
making, solvent type joints shall not be disturbed for five minutes and shall
not have internal pressure applied for 24 hours, or as recommended by the pipe
manufacturer.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 72 APPLICATION.
   This section sets forth the general requirements for design and installation
of water distribution systems for potable service.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
§ 73 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Reference. Normal flow demands for design shall be calculated on the
basis of full ultimate development as known, or projected. The average daily
flow for domestic use shall be calculated at the minimum rate of 100 gallons
per day per capita, with 3.5 persons per single-family residence, and 2.5
persons per multi-family or mobile home dwelling unit. Maximum day demand to be
used for design shall be 0.9 gallons per minute (GPM) per single-family
residence and 0.7 GPM per dwelling unit for each multi-family or mobile home
unit. Flow demands for commercial, industrial, or other special developments
shall be established from existing records or by estimated projections, using
the best available data.
   (B)   Water systems. Water distribution systems and/or water main extensions
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the fire protection
requirements of the Insurance Services Office (National Board of Fire
Underwriters), as stated in their publication "Guide for the Determination of
Required Fire Flows", if not in conflict with the following:
      (1)   Single-family. Fire flows in single-family residential areas shall
provide 500 gpm at a 20 psi residual pressure.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial. Fire flows in commercial, institutional,
industrial areas and apartment or multi-unit complexes shall provide 1,250 gpm
at a 20 psi residual pressure.
      (3)   Fire hydrants. Distance from or spacing for hydrants located within
areas or development containing one or two family dwelling units shall not
exceed 1000 feet (measured along the street) and shall be connected to water
mains of six inches minimum size, which are of satisfactory loop design.
Minimum distance and size requirements for areas or development containing
multi-family dwelling units, commercial, institutional or industrial uses are
500 feet and eight inches, respectively (measured along the street). Connection
to dead end stubs are acceptable, provided that said stubbed water main is not
less than eight inches. The city may require larger diameter water mains for
long lines that are not connected to other mains at intervals close enough for
proper mutual support, or as may be required to provide the fire flow and
residual pressures specified.
      (4)   System size computation. The minimum design for water distribution
systems shall provide for at least 100% of the combined maximum day-demand rate
and required fire flow for said rate, with special provisions for peak flows in
excess thereof. The allowable minimum service pressure under said design
condition shall not be less than 20 pounds per square inch. Design computation
shall be by the "Hardy Cross" procedure, or other applicable methods, as
dictated by the system configuration. Design flows and method of computation
shall be subject to review and approval by the city.
      (5)   Valve locations. Valves shall be provided for all branch
connections, loop ends, fire hydrant stubs, or other locations, as required to
provide an operable, easily maintained, and repaired water distribution system.
Valves are to be placed so that the maximum allowable length of water main
required to be shutdown for repair work shall be 500 feet in commercial,
industrial or multi-family residential areas, or 1,000 feet in other areas.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 1056, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 74 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. The materials of construction and general installation
procedures, with the exception of fire hydrants, shall comply with the specific
applicable standards set forth under §§ 53.15 through 53.17, §§ 53.35 through
53.38, as well as "Standard Details-Water Distribution Systems".
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Hydrants shall comply with AWWA Standard C502, "Fire
Hydrants for Ordinary Water Works Service", and shall be equipped with a
minimum of one pumper outlet nozzle 4-1/2 inches in diameter and two hose
nozzles 2-1/2 inches in diameter. Threads, nozzle caps, operating nuts, and
color shall conform to Lake Mary Standards. Units shall be traffic type with
breakable safety clips, or flange, and stem, with safety coupling located below
barrel break line to preclude valve opening. Outlet nozzles shall be on the
same plane, with minimum distance of 18 inches from center of nozzles to ground
line. Valve shall be compression type with 5-1/4 inches minimum opening and
show inlet connection to be six inches minimum.
      (1)   Hydrants shall be installed plumb and in true alignment with the
connection pipes to the water main. They shall be securely braced against the
end of the trench (undisturbed soil) with concrete thrust blocks. The gravel or
crushed stone for the drain sump, followed by backfilling, shall be carefully
placed and compacted. Installed hydrants shall be painted fluorescent red for
the final coat.
      (2)   Hydrant placement shall not be at a distance greater than 18 feet
from a paved stabilized area which can withstand the weight of a Class A
pumper. The center of the steamer port shall be 18 inches above final grade.
Steamer port shall be correctly positioned for the proper connections.
      (3)   Hydrant valve shall be permanently connected to the water main tee
with "All-Thread" or equal.
      (4)   A blue reflective hydrant marker shall be installed per DOT
specifications for all fire hydrants.
   (C)   Joint restraining. Pressure piping, fittings, and other items
requiring restraint, shall be braced with thrust blocks or other restraining
assemblies. Said restraining devices shall be designed for the maximum pressure
condition (testing) and the safe bearing loads for horizontal thrust, if thrust
blocking is used.
   (D)   Pipe depth and protection. The standard minimum cover for water
distribution systems shall be 30 inches from the top of the pipe to finish
grade. However, should this design not be feasible, protective concrete slabs
shall be provided over the pipe within the limits of the lesser cover. Where
waterways, canals, ditches or other cuts are crossed, protective concrete slabs
shall also be installed across and to ten feet each side of the bottom.
Additionally, approved utility crossing signs shall be placed on the pipe
alignment at each side of the canal and the like.
   (E)   Connections at structures. Where pipes are to extend into or through
structures, flexible joints are to be provided at the wall face.
   (F)   Special exterior protection for corrosion. Extra protection shall be
provided for underground cast or ductile iron pipe and fittings within areas of
severe corrosive conditions. This shall be accomplished by the installation of
polyethylene encasement, through the area of concern. The soil test evaluation
to determine the necessity for extra protection in suspect areas shall be set
forth in ANSI Standard A21.5. Additionally, where other existing utilities are
known to be cathodically protected, case or ductile iron pipe crossing said
utility shall be installed parallel to and within ten feet of; protection shall
also be provided. Steel pipe shall not be installed in severe corrosion areas.
   (G)   Air venting and blow-offs. Where the water main profile is such that
air pockets or entrapment could occur, resulting in the blockage, methods for
air release shall be provided. Air venting capabilities shall be provided for
distribution mains by appropriately placing fire hydrants, blow-offs, or other
manual devices. At critical points on major mains, automatic air release
assemblies shall be installed. Special care shall be taken to preclude any
cross-connection possibility in the design of automatic air release valve
application. All dead-end water mains, temporary or permanent, shall be
equipped with a manually operated blow-off at the terminal.
   (H)   Service connections. Connections to water mains two inches and larger
shall be made by drilling the appropriate size hold and installation of service
saddle, with services to smaller sizes accomplished by in-line fittings. Water
service lines from the main to the curb stop shall not have a minimum diameter
of less than one inch for single services. Where main size and flows are
appropriate double service will be of 1-1/2-inch polyethylene tubing wyed to 2
one-inch connections. Minimum tap size will be 1-7/16 inches. Wye will be
located so as to be clear of paving level. Corporation stops will be used in
all connection taps. A fitting with the service line extended into the tree
lawn, perpendicular to said line, shall terminate with a plugged curb stop,
pending meter installation. All curb stops shall be ball type and of one piece
brass construction with locking provisions, and meter couplings manufactured to
the stop as one piece. Meter connection branches will be used for double
services and will be of one piece brass construction. A distance of 7 1/
2 inches shall be required between meter connection branches. Tap size will be
minimum 15/16 inch for all service connections. Flanged full circle stainless
steel inserts will be used on all polyethylene compression connections.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 1056, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 75 TESTING.
   (A)   The contractor shall perform hydrostatic testing of all water
distribution systems, as set forth in the following, and shall conduct said
tests in the presence of representatives from the Water Department or other
authorized agencies, with 48 hours advance notice provided.
   (B)   Piping and appurtenances to be tested shall be within sections between
valves, unless alternate methods have received prior approval from the Water
Department. Testing shall not proceed until concrete thrust blocks are in place
and cured, or other restraining devices installed. All piping shall be
thoroughly cleaned and flushed prior to testing to clear the lines of all
foreign matter. While the piping is being filled with water, care shall be
exercised to permit the escape of air from extremities or the test section,
with additional release cocks provided if required.
   (C)   Hydrostatic testing shall be performed at 150 pounds per square inch
pressure, unless otherwise approved by the Water Department, for a period of
not less than two hours. Testing shall be in accordance with Section 12, AWWA
Standard C600. The allowable rate of leakage shall be less than the number of
gallons per hour determined by the following formula:
   L = ND x (P) 1/2
   3700
For 150 psi Test: 1 = 0.00331 ND
L =   allowable leakage in gallons per hour
N =   number of joints in the section tested (asbestos-cement pipe couplings
shall be considered as one joint)
D =   nominal diameter of the pipe in inches
P =   average test pressure maintained during the leakage test in pounds per
square inch gauge.
   (D)   The testing procedure shall include the continued application of the
specified pressure to the test system, for the two-hour period, by way of a
pipe taking supply from a container suitable for measuring water loss. The
amount of loss shall be determined by measuring the volume displaced from said
container.
   (E)   Should the test fail, necessary repairs shall be accomplished by the
contractor and the test repeated until within the established limits. The
contractor shall furnish the necessary labor, water, pumps, gauges and other
items required to conduct the required water distribution system testing and
perform necessary repairs.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 76 DISINFECTING.
   (A)   Following the pressure testing the contractor shall disinfect all
sections of the water distribution system, and receive approval thereof from
the appropriate agencies, prior to placing in service. Advance notice shall be
provided to the Water Department before disinfection and shall be accomplished
with the applicable provisions of AWWA Standard C601, "Disinfecting Water
Mains", and all appropriate agency approvals.
   (B)   Care shall be taken to provide disinfection to the total system and
extremities shall be carefully flushed to accomplish this end. After
disinfection has been accomplished, samples of water for bacteriological
analysis shall be collected and submitted to and as directed by the State
Division of Health or other appropriate approval agency. Should these samples
or subsequent samples prove to be unsatisfactory, then the piping shall be
disinfected until a sufficient number of satisfactory samples are obtained.
   (C)   The contractor shall furnish all equipment and materials and perform
the work necessary for the disinfecting procedures, including additional
disinfection as required.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
Penalty, see § 77
§ 77 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of §§
55 through
77 of this appendix shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 348, passed 12-3-87)
APPENDIX E: FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
1.   Design requirements
   
2.   Maintenance of private fire hydrants
   
3.   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   City fire prevention code, see
Chapter 95
§ 1 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Central water and sewer systems shall be designed and constructed for
an economic life of not less than 20 years, and in general accordance with the
fire protection requirements of the Insurance Services Office when not in
conflict with the requirements of this section. As a minimum standard, the
distribution system shall be capable of delivering, in addition to domestic
requirements at a residual pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch,
fire flows of at least 500 gallons per minute for areas or development
containing one or two family dwelling units where a dwelling unit is 2,500
square feet or less; of at least 1,000 gallons per minute for areas or
development containing one or two family dwelling units where dwelling units
exceed 2,500 square feet; and a minimum of l,250 to 2,000 gallons per minute,
depending on the size, hazard, and nature of the area, structures, and contents
as determined by the city, in areas containing multi-family dwelling units,
industrial, commercial, and institutional areas.
   (B)   The cost of hydrant installation and the first year's hydrant rental
shall be paid by the developer. All pressures and fire flows shall meet the
requirements of the Fire Department in accordance with standard fire flow
requirements.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be connected to mains no less than six inches
in diameter for areas or development containing one or two family dwelling
units and no less than eight inches in areas or development containing multi-
family dwelling units, commercial, institutional or industrial uses. The city
may require larger diameter mains for long lines that are not connected to
other mains at intervals close enough for proper mutual support, or as may be
required to provide the fire flows and residual pressures specified.
      (2)   Fire hydrants in areas or development containing multi-family
dwelling units, commercial, institutional or industrial uses shall be spaced no
further than 500 feet apart. All portions of a structure shall be within 250
feet of a hydrant, as the fire apparatus lays hose. Additional hydrants may be
required as determined by the Fire Department. Buildings equipped with an
automatic sprinkler system, with a fire department connection (FDC), are
required to have a minimum of two fire hydrants, one of which must be located
within 40 feet of the FDC.
      (3)   In areas or development containing one or two family dwelling
units, hydrants shall be spaced every 1,000 feet and placed on the lot lines,
or as otherwise specified by the Fire Department.
      (4)   It shall be required that all be valved in accordance with the most
recent requirements of the Insurance Services Office grading schedule for water
support.
      (5)   Sufficient storage, emergency pumping facilities, duplicate
facilities, and auxiliary power shall be provided to such an extent that there
is a minimum period of four hours in single-family residential areas and six to
eight hours in other more highly-developed areas.
   (C)   The requirements for fire hydrants may be waived temporarily in areas
where adequate mains are not available and the city determines that it is not
feasible to have them provided; but in those cases the developer must place in
escrow an amount equal to the cost of the hydrants plus an additional 25% to
provide for their connection as soon as adequate mains become available, and
the funds may be used for no other purpose. In addition, an alternate fire
protection water supply must be provided by the developer.
   (D)   Where reasonably possible, water mains shall be looped on the minimum
fire main size required for the area in order to provide mutual support. The
distance between fire hydrants shall be measured along the road right-of-way,
and shall not be measured across private property not designated and used as
rights-of-way. The location of all fire hydrants shall be subject to prior
approval of the Fire Chief of the city. All water mains shall have 30-inch
minimum coverage. Minimum coverage may be greater for fire line to comply with
NFPA 24.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 2 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The maintenance and testing of fire hydrants located on private property is
the responsibility of the property owner. Fire hydrants are required to be
tested and flowed annually. Such flowing shall not be performed without the
prior approval of the Fire and Public Works Departments. A report as required
by the Fire and Public Works Departments shall be submitted when work is
completed. Fire hydrants shall be maintained in operating condition at all
times. If a fire hydrant is damaged or is inoperable for any reason, the
property owner shall notify the Fire and Public Works Departments immediately.
(Ord. 1057, passed 5-2-02)
§ 3 EFFECETIVE DATE
   This Code shall take effect pursuant to general law. All those builders/
developers who, on the effective date of this Code, have not yet obtained
building permits or have allowed existing building permits to expire for a
structure or structures, shall be required to follow the requirements of this
Code.
(Ord. 347, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 1057, passed 5-2-02)
APPENDIX F: BORROW PITS
Section
   
1.   Permit required
   
2.   Permit application
   
3.   Permit issuance criteria
   
4.   Issuance of permit
   
5.   Permit restrictions
   
6.   Bond
   
7.   Enforcement
   
8.   Inspections: consent
   
9.   Independent contractors to obtain copy of permit
   
10.   Denial, suspension, or revocation of permit
   
11.   Appeals
   
12.   Injunctive relief
§ 1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or create a borrow pit or
borrow area without a permit from the city. Requests for permits shall require
a public hearing and Commission approval; however, no such permit shall be
required for any of the following activities when they are located on private
property;
   (A)   The installation of utilities.
   (B)   The installation of the foundations of any building or structure.
   (C)   Digging drainage ditches and canals where their locations and sizes
have been authorized and approved by the City Commissioners and the City
Engineer, and if the excavated material is not removed from the tract of land.
   (D)   Excavations relating to accessory uses of land and designed to be
filled upon completion of excavation, such as graves, septic tanks, and the
like.
   (E)   The construction of a swimming pool when a permit has been issued for
its construction.
   (F)   The excavation, grading, and moving of earth in conjunction with the
platting of a subdivision, when those activities are approved by the City
Commission.
   (G)   Any other use similar in nature to those listed above, where the
excavated material is not removed from the boundaries of the tract, where the
excavation is taking place with the approval of the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 2 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   Any person desiring a permit for the operation of a borrow pit or
borrow area shall make written application to the city.
      (2)   The application shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of applicant.
         (b)   The date of application.
         (c)   The name and address of any independent contractor to be
utilized in hauling or transporting excavated materials.
         (d)   A general description and legal description of the project site.
         (e)   A brief explanation of the project.
         (f)   The date the work is planned to start.
         (g)   The anticipated length of time of the project.
         (h)   The hours of operation.
         (i)   The routes to be utilized in hauling or transporting excavated
materials.
         (j)   The size of vehicles to be utilized in hauling or transporting
excavated materials.
         (k)   The amount of excavated materials to be removed.
      (3)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   A complete survey and topographic map prepared by a surveyor
registered in the state, indicating the extent of the work proposed.
         (b)   Proof of ownership as to all areas of land upon which it is to
be operated.
         (c)   A proposed plan of reclamation of the property at the conclusion
of the project.
   (B)   Fee. An application for a permit to operate a borrow pit shall be
accompanied by such fee as is established by duly-adopted resolution of the
City Commissioners.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   Notice. Upon the receipt of an application for the operation of a
borrow pit or borrow area requiring a public hearing, the city shall set a date
for the required public hearing, and publish a notice of the hearing one time
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least one week prior to
the hearing, describing the work proposed, and a general and legal description
of the location of the project. In addition, the Commission shall cause notices
of the required public hearing to be sent to all property owners who, as
determined by it, might be affected by the excavations, or the transporting or
hauling of excavated materials therefrom.
      (2)   Conduct. At the required public hearing for a borrow pit or borrow
area permit, the City Commissioners shall hear such testimony and presentation,
and shall review such submittals, recommendations, and information, as shall be
necessary to determine the effects of the proposed work on the rights and
interests of the public. The Commission may require reports to be made as
deemed necessary prior to the issuance of the borrow pit or borrow area permit.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 3 PERMIT ISSUANCE CRITERIA.
   In granting or denying a permit for the operation of a borrow pit or borrow
area, the City Commissioners shall consider all adverse effects on any
sanitary, storm, or other drainage system; any possible damage to public
streets or roads; the creation of a traffic or other hazard; the effect of the
project upon the public health, safety, comfort, good order, appearance,
prosperity, and general welfare; and any other applicable criteria.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 4 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Based upon their findings, the City Commissioners, or their designated
representative, shall either grant or deny a permit for the operation of a
borrow pit or borrow area, and may place such reasonable restrictions and
conditions upon the granting of the permit as shall be necessary to protect the
rights and interests of the public.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 5 PERMIT RESTRICTIONS.
   All projects undertaken under the authority of a permit issued in accordance
with the provisions of this appendix shall be subject to the following
restrictions and regulations:
   (A)   All excavations of land designed to be left open upon completion shall
be excavated within the setback lines conforming to the State Department of
Transportation requirements, but shall not be less than 200 feet from the
centerline of any federal or state highway, 100 feet from the centerline of any
other road right-of-way, and 50 feet from all side, rear, or abutting property
lines. In order to create a lake, these setbacks shall be increased to a
minimum of 170 feet in order to provide usable areas, unless the parcel is
bounded by public roads, in which case they shall be increased by 70 feet.
   (B)   No stockpiling of earth from any borrow-type operations may be within
the setback areas.
   (C)   Concrete PRM's shall be established at all corners.
   (D)   The entire property shall be enclosed with a hogwire or equivalent
fence (not barbed wire) at least six feet high which shall be closed and shall
include entrance gates, which shall be closed and secured when the borrow pit
is not in operation.
   (E)   Warning signs which are at least six feet square, but not more than
ten feet square, shall be posted on each side of the property, and be located
not more than ten feet from the property line.
   (F)   All sides of the excavated area shall have no greater than one foot
vertical drop for each three feet of horizontal distance measured from the
setback lines into the excavated area to the water table.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see § 26
§ 6 BOND.
   As a condition for the granting of a permit to operate a borrow pit or
borrow area, the City Commissioners may require the applicant to post a surety
bond guaranteeing that it will correct any damage that may occur to public
streets or roads to the environment, and to assure that the excavation and
reclamation will be made as specified by the Commission at the time the
application was approved. The bond shall be in the amount of not less than
$1,000, nor more than $.30 per cubic yard of total area approved for
excavation.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 7 ENFORCEMENT.
   This appendix shall be administered and enforced by the Building and Zoning
Department.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 8 INSPECTIONS: CONSENT.
   The city shall have authority to conduct inspections of any project
undertaken in accordance with this appendix. Upon the issuance of a permit
under this appendix, the applicant shall be deemed to have consented to
inspections at all reasonable times upon proper showing of identification by an
agent.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 9 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS TO OBTAIN COPY OF PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any independent contractor, independent
subcontractor, independent trucking concern, or their employees or agents, to
haul or transport any materials resulting from the operation of a borrow pit or
borrow area until the contractor has received a copy of the permit issued in
accordance with this appendix from the owner of the property where the borrow
pit or borrow area is being operated.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85) Penalty, see § 26
§ 10 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Grounds. The City Commission may, in its discretion, refuse to renew,
or may suspend or revoke, any permit issued under this appendix for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Material misstatement in the permit application.
      (2)   Willful disregard or violation of any of the provisions of this
appendix.
      (3)   Willful disregard or violation of any condition or conditions
imposed upon any permit granted.
      (4)   Negligence on the part of the applicant, his contractor,
subcontractor, trucker, or independent contractor in the excavating, hauling,
or transporting of any excavated materials.
      (5)   Any other grounds which constitute a threat to the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Hearing. Except as otherwise provided, no permit for the operation of
a borrow pit or area may be suspended or revoked without a hearing before the
City Commission, initiated by the filing of a sworn, written complaint with the
Commission, or upon the Commission's own motion and with due notice to the
permittee.
   (C)   Emergency suspension of permit.
      (1)   Any member of the City Commission, its agent or employee, or the
Zoning Inspector may order a permit for the operation of a borrow pit or borrow
area suspended on an emergency basis when the public interest so requires.
      (2)   A hearing with notice thereof on any such suspension shall be
provided to the permittee at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Commission, at which time, the permit shall either be reinstated, or further
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 11 APPEALS.
   (A)   If any person is aggrieved by a decision of the designated
representative with reference to this appendix, that person may request a
hearing before the City Commissioners.
   (B)   If any person is aggrieved by a decision of the City Commissioners
with reference to this appendix, the aggrieved person may, within 30 days from
the date of the disputed decision, request a rehearing before it. If the
request for rehearing is denied by the Commission, then the aggrieved person
may appeal as otherwise provided in general law.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 12 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to any penalty provided by law, the City Commissioners may bring
suit in the circuit court to enjoin, restrain, or otherwise prevent violations
of the provisions of this appendix.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
APPENDIX G: SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS
Section
   
1.   Purpose and intent
   
2.   Definitions
   
3.   Application for permit; plans and specifications
   
4.   Design and construction requirements
   
5.   Pool and screen enclosure setback requirements
   
6.   Plumbing requirements
   
7.   Nuisances
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of standard swimming pool code, see §
150.03(H)
§ 1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   In order to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, the
following minimum standards and requirements are herein set forth for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of swimming pools and swimming pool
equipment and apparatus.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
§ 2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POOL. A facility containing, or intended to contain, water of a total volume
greater than 8,000 gallons, used only by an individual citizen and his family
or bona fide guests; and shall include ownership, operation, or use by any type
of club, cooperative housing, or joint tenancy of two or more families.
   SCREEN ENCLOSURE. An enclosure surrounding a pool, the walls and roof of the
enclosure consisting entirely of screen mesh, except for the minimum essential
structural framework required for its support.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
§ 3 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Before any work is commenced on the construction of a pool or any
structural alteration, addition, or the remodeling thereof, an application for
a permit to construct the pool, accompanied by two sets of plans and
specifications and pertinent explanatory data, shall be furnished to the
Building Official of the city for approval. No part of the work shall be
commenced until the Building Official has granted the permit to construct and
has further evidenced approval by a suitable endorsement upon the plans and
specifications. No pool shall be used until final inspection has been made by
the Building Official.
   (B)   The plans, specifications, and pertinent data required to be submitted
in connection with an application for permit to construct a pool, or any
alteration, addition, or remodeling thereof, shall comply with the following
requirements and include the following plans and information, as well as other
data as may be reasonably requested by the Building Official:
      (1)   Plans shall be drawn to scale indicating all dimensions, including
the length, width, and depth of the pool and extent of any perimeter patio
slab.
      (2)   A longitudinal profile plan showing the length, depths, slopes,
radii of curvature, thickness of slab, steel reinforcing size and spacing, and
concrete cover.
      (3)   Pipe diagram showing material type, schedule, and sizes of all
pipes, inlets, outlets, make-up water lines, vacuum lines, waste and drainage
lines, circulation, and other piping, including all valves and valve types.
      (4)   The liquid capacity of the pool.
      (5)   Liquid capacity of any wading pool.
      (6)   The kind, number, and size of filters, including the square footage
of the filter area in each unit.
      (7)   Total capacity in gallons per minute.
      (8)   Plot plan shall be to scale and show lot, block, or legal plot.
Front, side, and rear setbacks shall be shown on this plot plan.
      (9)   All pump sizes, capacities, horsepowers, and types.
      (10)   Source of original and make-up water.
      (11)   The elevation of the existing groundwater table and the type and
approximate compactness of the soil to a minimum depth of 12 feet (this shall
be determined in advance of submittal of plans by a boring from a commercial
laboratory), if determined necessary by the Building Official.
   (C)   Plans and specifications for pools must bear the seal and signature of
a registered professional structural engineer licensed to practice in the
state, in any or all of the following instances:
      (1)   Where pools exceed 800 square feet in area at water level.
      (2)   Where pools depart from simple rectilinear or curvilinear shape.
      (3)   Where the highest ground water elevation will be less than four
feet six inches below the pool water level.
      (4)   Where any of the following soil conditions exist at or near the
center of the proposed pool location within 12 feet of the surface: loose to
very loose sand, silt, silty sand; or sand silt, marl, clay, peat, muck, or any
other soil having high settlement characteristics.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02) Penalty, see § 26
§ 4 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Design and construction requirements for pools shall be in accordance with
The Florida Building Code Section 424.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
§ 5 POOL AND SCREEN ENCLOSURE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No pool, excluding the surrounding patio, shall be located closer to
the side yard property line of the lot, parcel, or piece of land upon which the
pool is located, than the distance required by the zoning regulations of the
city for side yards in the zone in which the property is located; not less than
ten feet from the rear property line; nor shall any part of the pool structure
within and including the coping intrude upon any easement. No pool shall be
located nearer to the front line of the lot, parcel, or piece of land than the
main or principal building or residence to which the pool is an accessory,
except that for waterfront lots, a pool shall be located not less than 25 feet
from the present or proposed high-water control level of the lake. All
distances shall be measured from the outside edge of pool coping.
   (B)   Screen enclosures shall not be located closer to the side yard
property line than the side yard requirement established by the zoning
regulations of the city for the lot, parcel, or piece of land upon which the
pool is located; nor closer to the rear property line than three feet. On
lakefront property, no screen enclosure shall be erected less than 25 feet from
the control water level. In no case shall the height be higher than 12 feet.
Mesh sizes shall not be smaller than 20 x 20, nor larger than 18 x 14. Design
computations and construction details shall be supplied with all pool enclosure
plans showing that the same comply with wind load and live load requirements of
the building code of the city.
   (C)   Whenever in this appendix reference is made to the existing, normal,
or control water level, or highwater level, and wherever the control levels
have not been established, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the
approximate natural levels in accordance with available historical data.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 6 PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be no cross connections of the city water supply with any other
source of water supply for the pool. Any line from the city water supply to the
pool shall be protected against a back flow of polluted water by means of an
air gap, and shall discharge at least four and one-half inches above the
maximum high-water level of the make-up tank of the pool or an approved vacuum
breaker. In no instance shall pool waters be emptied into the city sewer system
or onto adjacent property.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 154.04
§ 7 NUISANCES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the pool owner to see that the operation
of his pool does not cause undue noise or excess lighting which might prevent
the enjoyment by adjoining property owners of their property.
   (B)   Upon construction of a swimming pool, the owner or persons responsible
for its operation shall keep in service all items designed for the purification
of the water supply or its protection from pollution to perform adequately the
function for which those items were designed.
   (C)   Drains shall be provided whereby when pool is not to be used for a
period of time, all piping, pits, and the like, can be drained and the pool
left drained.
   (D)   If any pool shall be allowed to contain stagnant or foul water, or
water containing more than 1,000 M.P.N. of E coli, the health officer shall
give the owner thereof 15 days notice by certified mail that the city will, at
the expiration of 15 days from the date of the notice, proceed to clean or
empty the pool, and that the cost will be assessed against the owner thereof.
Should any owner not comply with the provisions of this appendix by draining or
cleaning the pool, the city may then proceed with the work, and the cost
thereof shall be a charge against the owners of the land and shall remain a
lien against the land until paid. Failure by the owner to proceed within the
15-day period shall also be a violation of this appendix and punishable in
accordance with the code of ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 5-2-02)
Penalty, see § 154.04
APPENDIX H: VESTED RIGHTS
Section
   
1.   Definitions
   
2.   Special permit
   
3.   Considerations for determination of permit
   
4.   Demonstration of vested rights
   
5.   Application process
   
6.   Application fee
§ 1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this appendix, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
having an ownership interest in a parcel of real property in the city, or his
attorney-in-fact, who applies for a special permit pursuant to this appendix.
   COURTESY NOTICE. A notice of a public hearing sent by the city as a courtesy
to abutting landowners. The failure to send a COURTESY NOTICE for whatever
reason shall not be deemed to be a procedural defect or to be a valid basis
upon which a person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity may seek to
invalidate any proceedings of the City Commission or the Planning and Zoning
Commission with regard to an application to issue a special permit pursuant to
this appendix. The city shall be under no duty to send a COURTESY NOTICE to any
person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity.
   DATE OF NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN A LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. The date on
which a notice of a public hearing on a proposed change in a land development
regulation was first published in a newspaper of general circulation. If the
change in a land development regulation subject to a notice of a change in a
land development regulation is immediately preceded by a period in which a
moratorium, stop-gap zoning, or interim zoning ordinance existed which limited
the ability of the applicant or the applicant's predecessor in interest to
request changes in the pre-existing development regulation, then the date of
notice of a change in a land development regulation shall be the date on which
a notice of a public hearing on the proposed predecessor moratorium, stop-gap
zoning, or interim zoning ordinance was first published in a newspaper of
general circulation.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER. Any order granting, with or without conditions, a
development permit, including any building permit, zoning permit, rezoning,
subdivision approval, site plan approval, special exception, conditional use,
certification, variance, or any other official action of the city having the
effect of permitting any type, level, nature, density, intensity, or other form
of development of land.
   INVESTMENT-BACKED EXPECTATION. The expenditure of substantial sums of money
by the applicant which cannot be recovered by the applicant, or an irreversible
and substantial change of position that imposes on the applicant an obligation
to expend sums of money in the future.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A provision that has an adverse and material
effect upon the applicant's claim to a vested right to commence and construct a
specific type, level, nature, density, intensity, or other form of development,
and which is for the regulation of any aspect of development; including any
city zoning, rezoning, subdivision, building construction, site planning, sign
regulation, or any other regulation controlling the development of land.
   NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION. A newspaper primarily printed in the
English language, which newspaper is readily available for purchase by
inhabitants of the city; but does not include a newspaper intended primarily
for members of a particular professional or occupational group, a newspaper
whose primary function is to carry legal notices, or a newspaper that is given
away primarily to distribute advertising. A newspaper of general circulation
must be entered or qualified as second-class matter at a post office within the
county; shall have been in existence for one year or more; and shall be
published periodically at least once a week or more often.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 2 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Upon application and after review as provided herein, the City Commission
may authorize as a special permit an exception to the otherwise applicable
provisions of the currently effective city comprehensive plan or the city land
development code. The special permit shall be a development order for a
specific type, level, nature, density, intensity, or other form of development
of a specifically described parcel of real property. The special permit is not
transferable, in whole or in part, to any other parcel of real property or to
any other person, corporation, or other legal entity. The special permit may be
granted whenever the City Commission finds that the applicant has demonstrated,
pursuant to the standards set forth in the following sections of this appendix,
that the applicant has a preexisting vested right to commence and complete a
specific level, type, nature, density, intensity, or other form of development.
The special permit may be granted with or without conditions as may be
appropriate that evidence shall indicate to the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 3 CONSIDERATIONS FOR DETERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   In determining whether a right to commence and complete construction of a
specific level, type, nature, density, intensity, or other form of development
has been vested, the following factors shall be considered:
   (A)   Whether there has been an act or omission to act by the city;
   (B)   What city official acted or omitted to act and the personnel rank or
official position of that official;
   (C)   Whether the city official acted or omitted to act within the course
and scope of his personnel rank and official position;
   (D)   The nature of the act committed and date thereof, or the nature of the
omission to act and approximate date thereof;
   (E)   Whether the applicant made a substantial change in position, or has an
investment-backed expectation, based upon the city's act or omission to act;
   (F)   The nature of the applicant's change in position or investment-backed
expectation, including expenditure of money or obligation to expend funds,
amounts thereof, dates of expenditures; or incurrence of the obligation to
incur expenditures, acts committed which represent a change in position, and
dates thereof;
   (G)   Good faith of the applicant in substantially changing his position, or
the incurring of extensive obligations and expenses based upon the city's
actions or omissions to act;
   (H)   Any acts of the applicant (the dates thereof) associated with physical
improvements on the land in question, such as grading; dedication of land to
the city or any other governmental entity; payment of fees, such as impact
fees; installation of utility infrastructure or public improvements; or for the
design of specific buildings and improvements to be constructed on the site;
   (I)   The extent to which the applicant has secured building permits for,
and commenced or completed, the construction of subdivision improvements and
buildings in part, but not all, of the development, that was contemplated to
extend over a period of months or years;
   (J)   Whether the applicant prior to, or on, the date of notice of a change
in a land development regulation has made contractual commitments to complete
structures and deliver titles there to or occupancy thereof, and the dates of
and amounts of money involved in those commitments;
   (K)   Whether prior to, or on, the date of notice of change in a land
development regulation for the currently effective comprehensive plan, land
development code, or applicable section of either document, the applicant
incurred financial obligations to a lending institution, which, despite a
thorough review of alternative solutions, the applicant will be unable to meet,
or it would be inequitable and unjust to require the applicant to meet, unless
he is permitted to proceed with the previously permitted type, nature, level,
density, intensity, or other form of development;
   (L)   Whether enforcement of the terms of the currently effective
comprehensive plan or land development code regulation will expose the
applicant to substantial monetary liability to third persons, or will leave the
applicant completely unable, after thorough review of alternative solutions, to
earn a reasonable return on his investment in the property;
   (M)   Whether the right of the applicant to commence and complete the
proposed development, or a level, type, nature, intensity, density, or other
form of development, has been vested only with respect to an identifiable and
discreet portion of the applicant's property; and
   (N)   Any other information relevant to discerning the applicant's claim to
vested rights to develop his real property in a particular manner that may be
pertinent under state or federal law.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 4 DEMONSTRATION OF VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   The right of the applicant to commence or complete construction of a
development or to a type, level, nature, density, intensity, or other form of
development on his parcel of real property, or a portion thereof, is vested if
the applicant can demonstrate that:
      (1)   The applicant owned the parcel of real property proposed to be
developed on the date of notice of a change in a land development regulation,
and that the specific nature, type, level, density, intensity, or other form of
development proposed for the parcel of real property was lawful and permitted
at that time;
      (2)   That the applicant has continuously owned the parcel of real
property since the date of notice of a change in a land development regulation
until the date of the public hearing before the City Commission on the special
permit application;
      (3)   That the currently effective city comprehensive plan or land
development code, or portion thereof, complained of by the applicant as being
counter to the applicant's vested right to commence and complete construction
of a certain level, type, nature, intensity, density, or other form of
development, has a material and adverse effect upon the applicant's vested
right to develop the subject parcel of real property;
      (4)   By application of the considerations set out in the §
3 of this appendix, the applicant in good faith upon some act or omission of
the city has made such a substantial change in position it has an investment-
backed expectation that would make it inequitable and unjust to destroy the
right of the applicant to commence and complete a certain level, type, nature,
density, intensity, or other form of development upon all or a portion of the
applicant's parcel of real property; and
      (5)   Requiring that the applicant's property be developed in accordance
with the currently effective city comprehensive plan or city land development
code restrictions will, considering the substantial change in position of the
applicant or the creation of an investment-backed expectation prior to or on
the date on which the currently effective city comprehensive plan or land
development code was subject to a notice of a change in a land development
regulation, deprive the applicant of a reasonable rate of return on his
investment or substantial change in position. In determining the reasonableness
of the projected rate of return, the following categories of expenditures shall
not be included in the calculation of the applicant's investment:
         (a)   Expenditures for professional services that are unrelated to the
design or construction of the improvements proposed for the type, level,
nature, density, intensity, or other form of development proposed to be vested;
         (b)   Expenditures for taxes, except for any increases in tax
expenditures which result from issuance of a development order which would now
be contrary to the currently existing city comprehensive plan or land
development code; and
         (c)   Expenditures which the applicant has allocated to the particular
proposed development but which the applicant would have been obligated to incur
as an ordinary and necessary business expense (for example, employees'
salaries, equipment rental, chattel mortgage payments) had the plan for the
particular development not been formulated or a development order not been
issued for the type, level, nature, density, intensity, or other form of
development now claimed by the applicant to be vested.
   (B)   The fact that the property has been or is in a particular zoning or
comprehensive plan district or classification under the currently effective
city comprehensive plan or land development code, or any prior city
comprehensive plan or zoning ordinance of the city, shall not, in and of
itself, establish that an applicant's right to commence and complete
construction of a certain level, type, nature, intensity, density, or other
form of development has been vested.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 5 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity having an
ownership interest in a parcel of real property may file an application for a
special permit determining the applicant's right to commence and complete a
specific type, level, nature, intensity, density, or other form of development
on that real property that has been vested. The application shall be filed with
the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, and shall contain:
      (1)   A concise and complete recital of the facts, including dates of
expenditures or obligation to expend funds, dollar amounts, the nature of
expenditures or obligation to expend funds, and other factors which are claimed
to support the claim to a vested right to commence and complete a specific
level, type, nature, density, intensity, or other form of development;
      (2)   A legal description of the parcel of real property and survey
thereof upon which the applicant claims to have vested development rights;
      (3)   The applicant's name, address, and telephone number;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of any attorney or agent
who is or will be representing the applicant;
      (5)   A title opinion of a state attorney, abstract of title, or other
evidence acceptable to the city that the applicant has continuously held title
to the real property described in the application from the day of the date of
notice of a change in a land development regulation until at least two weeks
prior to the date of application for a special permit, together with a
description of the extent and quality of ownership of the real property during
that period;
      (6)   An affidavit under penalty of perjury executed by the applicant
before a notary public attesting to the truth, accuracy, and veracity of the
application and all attachments thereto; and
      (7)   Such other information relevant to the standards and factors in
this appendix as the City Manager may specify.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall attach an original or photographically
reproduced copy of all documents and other documentary evidence relevant to the
application for recognition of vested interest. The application shall be filed
with the City Manager, who shall certify its receipt. The application shall
first be considered by the Planning and Zoning Board at public hearing, duly
noticed by the Planning and Zoning Board, which shall then forward its
recommendations to the City Commission for further consideration by that body.
Said meeting shall be held not earlier than the third meeting of the Planning
and Zoning Board following the receipt and certification of the application by
the City Manager, but not later than the fourth meeting of the Board, following
receipt and certification. In no event, however, shall the application be
considered upon less than 15 days' public notice in the form and content as
required by law or ordinance for public hearings for consideration by the
Planning and Zoning Board of amendments to zoning or comprehensive land plan
designations.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall render its recommendations to
the City Commission, in writing, with an explanation therefor not later than
seven days following the conclusion of its hearing. Its hearing may be
continued from day to day as necessary.
      (3)   The recommendations and explanation of the Planning and Zoning
Board shall not be binding upon the City Commission. Any proceedings before the
City Commission for recognition of a vested interest shall be de novo
proceedings and the decision of the City Commission shall constitute the final
order for purpose of judicial review.
   (C)   The City Commission shall conduct a hearing on the application not
earlier than its third meeting nor later than its fourth meeting following
receipt of the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board, upon not less
than 15 days' public notice published in a newspaper in general circulation in
Seminole County, Florida. The notice shall be in the form and content as
required by division (B)(1) hereof. At said hearing the City Commission shall
consider the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board, any evidence
presented by the applicant, any evidence presented by the City Planner, his
designee, any other evidence presented by the City Planner, his designee, any
other evidence presented by the city administrative staff and any evidence
presented by interested persons. It shall not be necessary to receive evidence
under oath, but all such evidence shall be upon penalty of perjury. The motion
granting or denying vested rights status shall state the basis therefor, in
light of the considerations set forth in § 3 of this Appendix.
      (1)   The decision of the City Commission granting or denying the
application shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than the second
meeting of the City Commission following the public hearing and a copy shall be
sent to the applicant by U.S. mail, certified, return receipt requested.
      (2)   Any determination of the City Commission with respect to vested
rights and the issuance of a special permit under this appendix shall expire
and be of no further force or effect, unless construction is actually commenced
on the parcel of real property within one year of the date that the order
granting the special permit is filed with the City Clerk. For good cause shown
by the applicant, the City Commission may, in its legislative discretion,
extend the foregoing one-year period by a time period of up to one additional
year.
      (3)   Any person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity
claiming a vested right to commence and complete any type, level, nature,
density, intensity, or other form of development of a specific parcel of real
property who does not file an application for determination under this appendix
within one year of the effective date of the amendatory ordinance that rezones,
changes the land use of the property, or otherwise materially and adversely
affects the applicant's real property or portion thereof so as to prohibit the
nature, type, level, intensity, density, or other form of development, in whole
or in part, shall be deemed to have waived the right to seek such a
determination.
   (D)   In addition to published notice, actual notice of any hearing before
the Planning and Zoning Board or the City Commission for recognition of vested
rights status, shall be mailed to the applicant and all persons who are
required to be so noticed with regard to applications for change in zoning or
comprehensive land use designations.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 350, passed 12-3-87; Am. Ord. 451, passed
11-2-89)
§ 6 APPLICATION FEE.
   The applicant shall submit an application fee of $100. The fee shall cover
the cost of processing the special permit application, advertising, and the
preparation and mailing of courtesy notices and special permit orders of the
Planning and Zoning Board and city Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
APPENDIX I: SIGN CODE
Section
   
1.   Short title
   
2.   Purpose; intent
   
3.   Definitions
   
4.   Sign permits and construction and maintenance standards
   
5.   Exempt and prohibited signs
   
6.   On premise sign regualtions
   
7.   Enforcement
   
8.   Regulation of non-conforming signs
   
9.   Variances
   
10.   Interpretation of sign code
   
11.   Severability
§ 1 SHORT TITLE.
   This appendix shall be known as the "Lake Mary Sign Code" or "sign code".
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01)
§ 2 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare through reasonable, consistent and non-discriminatory sign
standards. The sign regulations in this Section are also designed and intended
to meet the statutory requirement that this municipality adopt land development
regulations that regulate signage, a requirement set forth in F.S. § 163.3202
(f). The sign regulations in this section are not intended to censor speech or
to regulate viewpoints, but instead are intended to regulate the adverse
secondary effects of signs. The sign regulations are especially intended to
address the secondary effects that may adversely impact aesthetics and safety.
The sign regulations are designed to serve substantial government interests
and, in some cases, compelling governmental interests such as traffic safety
and warning signs of threats to bodily injury or death. The city specifically
finds that these sign regulations are narrowly tailored to achieve the
compelling and substantial governmental interests of traffic safety and
aesthetics, and that there is no other way for the city to further these
interests.
   (B)   This section regulates signs, as defined in this Land Development
Code, which are placed on private property or on property owned by public
agencies including the city and over which the city has zoning authority. This
section is not intended to extend its regulatory regime to objects that are not
traditionally considered signs for purpose of governmental regulation.
   (C)   In order to preserve and promote the city as a desirable community in
which to live and do business, a pleasing visually attractive environment is of
foremost importance. The regulation of signs within the city is an important
means to achieve this desired end.
   (D)   These sign regulations have been prepared with the intent of enhancing
the visual environment of the city and promoting its continued well-being, and
are intended to:
      (1)   Encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in
the city;
      (2)   Maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the city's
ability to attract sources of economic development and growth;
      (3)   Improve pedestrian and traffic safety;
      (4)   Minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and
private property;
      (5)   Foster the integration of signage with architectural and landscape
designs;
      (6)   Lessen the visual clutter that may otherwise be caused by the
proliferation, improper placement, illumination, animation, excessive height,
and excessive sign (area) of signs which compete for the attention of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (7)   Allow signs that are compatible with their surroundings and aid
orientation, while precluding the placement of signs that contribute to sign
clutter or that conceal or obstruct adjacent land uses or signs;
      (8)   Encourage and allow signs that are appropriate to the zoning
district in which they are;
      (9)   Establish sign size in relationship to the scale of the lot and
building on which the sign, is to be placed or to which it pertains;
      (10)   Preclude signs from conflicting with the principal permitted use
of the site and adjoining;
      (11)   Regulate signs in a manner so as to not interfere with, obstruct
the vision of or distract motorists, bicyclists or pedestrians;
      (12)   Except to the extent expressly preempted by state or Federal law,
ensure that signs are constructed, installed and maintained in a safe and
satisfactory manner, and protect the public from unsafe signs;
      (13)   Preserve, conserve, protect, and enhance the aesthetic quality and
scenic beauty of all districts of the city;
      (14)   Allow for traffic control devices without regulation consistent
with national standards and whose purpose is to promote highway safety and
efficiency by providing for the orderly movement of road users on streets and
highways, and that notify road users of regulations and provide warning and
guidance needed for the safe, uniform and efficient operation of all elements
of the traffic stream;
      (15)   Protect property values by precluding, to the maximum extent
possible, sign types that create a nuisance to the occupancy or use of other
properties as a result of their size, height, illumination, brightness, or
movement;
      (16)   Protect property values by ensuring that sign types, as well as
the number of signs, are in harmony with buildings, neighborhoods, and
conforming signs in the area;
      (17)   Regulate the appearance and design of signs in a manner that
promotes and enhances the beautification of the city and that complements the
natural surroundings in recognition of this city's reliance on its natural
surroundings and beautification efforts in retaining economic advantage for its
business and residential community, as well as for its major subdivisions,
shopping centers and industrial parks;
      (18)   Enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign
regulations;
      (19)   Promote the use of signs that positively contribute to the
aesthetics of the community, are appropriate in scale to the surrounding
buildings and landscape, and advance the city's goals of qualify development;
      (20)   Provide standards regarding the non-communicative aspects of
signs, which are consistent with city; county, state and federal law;
      (21)   Provide flexibility and encourage variety in signage, and create
an incentive to relate signage to the basic principles of good design: and
      (22)   Assure that the benefits derived from the expenditure of public
funds for the improvement and beautification of streets, sidewalks, public
parks, public rights-of-way. and other public places and spaces, are protected
by exercising reasonable controls over the physical characteristics and
structural design of signs.
      (23)   To provide adequate opportunity to advertise in commercial areas
while preventing excessive advertising which would have a detrimental effect on
the character and appearance of such districts.
      (24)   To reduce glare and improve public safety and to reinforce the
character of unique areas such as the Downtown Development District, and the
High Tech District.
      (25)   To protect the general public from damage and injury caused by the
faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the city.
      (26)   To protect and maintain the visual integrity of roadway corridors
within the city by establishing a maximum amount of signage on any one site to
reduce visual clutter.
      (27)   Where there is conflict between this section and other sections of
this code, the most restrictive regulations shall apply.
      (28)   This section does not regulate government signs on government
property, since these signs are erected for purposes of public safety and in
the public interest.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
§ 3 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms not otherwise defined herein shall be interpreted first by reference
to the Comprehensive Plan and the Code of Ordinances; secondly, if the terms
are technical, by reference to generally accepted engineering, planning, or
other professional terminology; and otherwise according to common usage, unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise.
For the purpose of enforcing and administering these regulations, the following
words shall have the definition and meanings herein ascribed:
   “ANCHOR OCCUPANT.” The occupant leasing or owning the most square footage in
a shopping center. The major store or stores in a shopping center. Anchor
occupants have more than 100 business front feet and a minimum floor area of
10,000 square feet.
   “ANIMATED SIGN.” A sign which includes action, motion, or color changes, or
the optical illusion of action, motion, or color changes, including a sign set
in motion by movement of the atmosphere, or made up of a series of sections
that turn.
   “AWNING SIGN.” A sign composed of cloth, plastic, or canvas supported by a
metal or rigid framework attached to and extending from an exterior wall or any
other portion of a building utilized as protection from the rain or sun. A
canopy sign is also known as an awning sign. (See
illustration A)
   “BANNER SIGN.” Any sign applied to cloth, canvas, paper or fabric of any
kind, including foil. (See
illustration A)
   “BILLBOARD.” A non-point-of-sale commercial sign which advertises a product,
service, business, organization, event, person, place, or thing.
   “CITY.” The City of Lake Mary, Florida.
   “CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN.” A sign other than an electronic sign designed to
accommodate changeable copy, including but not limited to, individual letters
and numbers that can be removed and replaced by hand.
   “DISCONTINUED SIGN.”
      (1)   A sign located on property which has been vacant and unoccupied for
a period of ninety (90) days or more; or
      (2)   Any sign face which advertises a service no longer conducted or
product no longer sold upon the premises where the sign is located.
   “DOUBLE-FACED SIGN.” A sign with two faces which are no more than 12 inches
apart at their closest point, and which have an internal angle between face
planes extended no more than 30 degrees. (See
illustration A)
   “ELECTRONIC SIGN.” A sign on which the copy changes automatically on a lamp
bank or in a similar fashion, including but not limited to LED (light emitting
diodes), LCD (liquid crystal displays), CEVMS (commercial electronic variable
message signs), plasma displays, dynamic displays, projected images, or any
other functionally equivalent technology, and which is capable of automated,
remote or computer control to change the image, or through any electronically
illuminated, scrolling or moving text, symbols or other images, utilizing LED,
LCD, CEVMS, or other digital or electronic technology, commonly known as
electronic message or reader boards, electronic marquees, message centers,
moving message displays, or digital signs.
   “FLAG.” A temporary sign consisting of a piece of cloth, fabric, or other-
non-rigid material containing non-commercial speech.
   “FLUTTER SIGN” or “FEATHER SIGN.” Any professionally produced streamers,
balloons, wind signs, wind activated banners, cold air inflatables, pennants
and other fixed aerial signage used outdoors for commercial advertising.
   “FRONT FOOT, BUILDING.” Each foot, or major portion thereof, measured along
the main entry side of a building. When buildings form an “L” or “U”, all main
entry sides are measured (See
illustration A)
   “FRONT FOOT, BUSINESS.” The lineal distance of the building space occupied
by the particular business, measured in a straight line parallel to the street.
When a business does not parallel a street, the front foot shall be measured
along the exterior side of the building space occupied by the sign applicant
which contains the primary entrance to the building. (See
illustration A)
   “GOVERNMENT SIGN.” Any temporary or permanent sign erected by or on the
order of a public official or quasi-public entity at the Federal, state, or
local government level in the performance of any duty.
   “GROUND SIGNS.” A sign wholly independent of any building for support which
is placed upon or permanently affixed in the ground. (See
illustration A )
   “HEIGHT.” The distance between the top of a sign and the average finished
grade elevation of the base of the sign except in the Gateway Corridor Overlay
Standards Classification District.
   “HEIGHT - GATEWAY CORRIDOR OVERLAY STANDARDS CLASSIFICATION DISTRICT.” The
distance between the top of a sign and the elevation of the nearest sidewalk.
   “ILLEGAL SIGN.” A sign not having a legally issued permit required by the
sign code, or a sign not authorized by the sign code.
   “ILLUMINATED SIGN.” A sign that uses artificial light, either internal or
external to the sign faces, to draw attention to the sign or otherwise increase
its visibility.
   “INTERMITTENT SIGN.” Any illuminated sign which contains, includes, or is
illuminated by any intermittent light or lights, except those giving public
service information such as time, date, weather, or similar information.
   “NON-CONFORMING SIGN.” A sign lawfully existing in the city before the
adoption of this sign code, or any amendment, that does not comply with these
requirements.
   “OFF-PREMISES SIGN.” A sign identifying an activity which is not on the
premises where the sign is located or products or services which are not
available on the premises where the sign is located.
   “ON-PREMISES SIGN.” A sign (1) identifying an activity conducted or products
or services available on the premises where the sign is located, or (2)
displaying a noncommercial message or (3) any combination of the first two.
   “PARAPET.” The extension of the main walls of a building above the roof
level. (See
illustration A)
   “PARASITE SIGN.” Any sign which is attached to another sign. (See
illustration A)
   “PERSON.” An individual, associate, joint venture, partnership, corporation
or any other entity.
   “POLE SIGNS.” A ground sign supported by poles, uprights, or braces, which
are not concealed in an enclosed base, but are permanently placed on or in the
ground and wholly independent of any building for support. (See
illustration A)
   “PORTABLE SIGN.” A sign that has no permanent attachment to a building or to
the ground. (See
illustration A)
   “PREMISE(S).” One or more designated parcels, tracts, lots or areas of land,
together with improvements located thereon, if any, established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit.
   “PROJECTING SIGN.” Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than twelve inches beyond the surface of
such building or wall. (See
illustration A)
   “ROOF SIGN.” Any sign erected or installed upon the roof of any building or
structure. (See
illustration A)
   “SANDWICH SIGN.” Any two-sided, self-supporting portable sign. (See
illustration A)
   “SIGN.” Any surface, fabric, device, or display, whether illuminated or non-
illuminated, designed to identify, announce, direct or inform, and that is
legible visible from off-site. For purposes of this sign code, the term “sign”
includes all structural members. The definition of a sign does not include:
         (a)   Signs required or installed by a government agency on private
property; and
         (b)   Notices required to be posted by law or ordinance on private
property.
      Only signs visible from any street, property (other than the subject
site), or water body fall under the definition of sign.
   “SIGN AREA.” The entire area enclosed by one continuous perimeter line,
enclosing the extreme limits of the sign, including all ornamental attachments,
insignias, symbols, logos, trademarks, interconnecting links and the like, and
any stripe, frame or border. SIGN AREA does not include the main support
structure of the sign unless used for sign display purposes.
      The calculation for a double faced sign shall be the area of one face
only.
      The calculation for wall signs comprised of individual letters, numbers,
symbols and the like, where the exterior wall of the building upon which it is
affixed acts as the background of the sign, shall be calculated as ninety
percent (90%) of the area enclosed within the smallest regular geometric figure
needed to encompass the sign display.
   “SNIPE SIGN.” Any sign that is placed on public property or tacked, nailed,
glued, or in any way affixed to trees, public utility poles or other objects,
or situated on any public road right-of-way, easement or alley.
   “SUBDIVISION SIGN.” Any sign located at the entrance to a subdivision.
   “SWING SIGNS OR SUSPENDED SIGNS.” Any sign projecting from an angle on the
outside wall or walls of any building, and which is suspended from a projecting
structure in such a manner that the sign itself, or any part thereof, is not
attached to the building or wall. (See
illustration A)
   “TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL SIGN.” Any wording, logo, emblem, character,
pictograph, trademark, or symbol used to represent a firm, organization,
entity, product, or service, or other representation that, directly or
indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a product or service, on
any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form, graphic,
illumination symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of, or
identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate information to
the public.
      For purposes of this section, terms such as sale, special, clearance, or
other words which relate to commercial activity shall be deemed to be
commercial messages.
   “TEMPORARY NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN.” Any sign that is not commercial, which is
not an advertisement for a specific product or service, where the speaker does
not have an economic motivation.
   “TEMPORARY SIGN.” A sign that is not a permanent sign. The term “TEMPORARY
SIGN” shall not include any substitution of message on an existing lawful sign
or sign structure. Unless otherwise provided in this code, a sign with an
intended use for a period of time related to an event shall be deemed a
temporary sign. A flag is deemed a temporary sign.
   “WALL SIGN.” A sign painted on or attached to any outside wall of a building
and in the same plane as the wall. Wall signs shall include, but not be limited
to, projecting signs, awning signs, painted murals, parapet signs, swing or
suspended signs. (See
illustration A)
   “WINDOW SIGN.” Any sign placed inside or upon the window panes or glass of
any window or door visible from the exterior of the building. (See
illustration A)
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1476, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 1500,
passed 12-5-13; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
§ 4 SIGN PERMITS AND CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sign permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, alter, replace or relocate within the city any sign without having
first obtained a sign permit therefore, except as provided in §
5(A) of this sign code. No permit shall be issued until the city determines
that such sign is in accordance with the requirements contained in this sign
code, and the city determines such sign will not violate any building,
electrical or other adopted codes of the City of Lake Mary.
      (1)   Applications. All sign permit applications shall be filed on forms
supplied by the city. The application shall contain the information and
documents required in §
4(A)(2), below, and shall be accompanied by the required sign permit fee.
      (2)   Application contents. The application for a sign permit for a sign
shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the property owner. If
the applicant is not the property owner, the name, address and telephone number
of the applicant also. The name, address and telephone number of the business,
establishment or occupant, if applicable.
         (b)   The name, address, telephone number and state license number of
the sign contractor/manufacturer.
         (c)   The name, address, telephone number and registration number of
the engineer or architect.
         (d)   The street address, legal description and tax identification
number of the property upon which proposed sign is to be located.
         (e)   The future land use designation and zoning district where the
sign is to be installed.
         (f)   The type of sign, square footage, height and location of all
signs currently located on the premises.
         (g)   The type of sign, square footage, design, sign area, height,
location and fully dimensioned elevation drawings of the sign or signs proposed
to be erected on the premises. If the sign is to be electrically lighted, the
Testing Laboratory Number or the ETL Number shall be provided, and the name and
address of the Electrical Contractor. In such case, the sign permit application
shall be accompanied by a separate electrical permit application, as required
by §
150.03 of the Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
         (h)   Written permission of the property owner to erect the proposed
sign if the applicant is not the property owner.
         (i)   A fully dimensioned site plan showing the lot frontage, building
frontage or business, establishment or occupant frontage, parking areas and
location of all existing and proposed signs. For ground signs and temporary
signs, the site plan must show the distance from the right-of-way and property
lines, and street corner visibility calculations. For temporary signs, over six
square feet, name, date and time associated with the event and a timeframe for
the temporary sign to come down.
         (j)   The type of construction, materials, sign supports, electrical
details for the proposed sign.
         (k)   Wind load calculations and footer details for the proposed sign
as required by the city's adopted building code.
      (3)   Review/time limits. Upon the receipt of a sign permit application
and upon payment of the appropriate fee by the applicant, the city shall
conduct a review of the application, the proposed sign and the premises. The
city shall grant or deny the sign permit within 45 days from the date the
application and the associated fee were filed with the city.
      (4)   Issuance or denial of permit.
         (a)   If, after review as required herein and upon payment of the
appropriate sign permit fee, the city determines that the application meets the
requirements contained in this sign code and determines the proposed sign will
not violate any building, electrical or other adopted codes of the City of Lake
Mary, the city shall issue the permit.
         (b)   If, after review as required herein, the city determines that
one or more reasons for denial exist, the permit shall be denied and the city
shall report the denial and the reasons thereof. A copy of the denial shall be
sent by certified mail to the designated return address of the applicant on the
application. The application for a permit shall be denied if one or more of the
following conditions are found to exist:
            (i)   The application does not comply with the requirements of this
sign code; or
            (ii)    The application would violate any building, electrical or
other adopted code of the City of Lake Mary.
      (5)   Permit fees. The permit fee schedule for signs is contained in §
150.05 of the Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   Permit label required. With each permit issued, the city shall
provide a label for each permitted sign bearing the permit number. The
applicant shall attach the label to the sign or sign structure so as to be
clearly visible from the public right-of-way or public areas of the premises.
In addition, a legible copy of the sign permit shall be adhered to the rear of
the sign in a protective plastic covering.
      (7)   Expiration of permit. Sign permits shall expire ten days after date
of issuance, unless the permitted sign is inspected and certified as complete
by the city before the expiration of the ten days.
      (8)   Appeals. Any person denied a permit for a sign may file a written
appeal to the Sign Code Board of Adjustment within ten calendar days after
receipt of a report of the denial. The Planning and Zoning Board is hereby
designated as the Sign Code Board of Adjustment, and is authorized to hear and
decide appeals de novo where it is alleged there is an error in the denial of a
sign permit. The Sign Code Board of Adjustment shall hear such appeals within
60 days of the filing of the appeal and promptly render a final decision. Any
person aggrieved by a final decision of the Sign Code Board of Adjustment may
appeal within 30 days of rendition of the final decision, which appeal shall be
immediately reviewed as a matter of right by the courts upon the filing of an
appropriate pleading by an aggrieved party. A prompt final decision shall be
rendered by the Court.
      (9)   Implied consent. Any person applying for and receiving a permit for
any sign hereby consents to the following:
         (i)   Consents to complying with all provisions of this code;
         (ii)    Consents for City Officials to come on private property to
inspect all signage;
         (iii)    Consents to the placement of an adhesive notice of violation
on the face of sign if found to be in violation of code;
         (iv)    Consents to signing "Statement of Fact" prior to issuance of
permit. The Statement of Fact outlines the signage authorized, permitted and
available under specific zoning district.
   (B)   Construction and maintenance standards. All signs shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Code compliance. All signs shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the provisions and requirements of the city's building codes,
electrical codes and all other applicable codes.
      (2)   Copy. All copy shall be maintained so as to be legible and
complete.
      (3)   Structure. All signs shall be maintained in a vertical position
unless originally permitted otherwise, and in good and safe condition at all
times.
      (4)   Damage. Damaged faces or structural members shall be repaired.
      (5)   Safety. The construction and maintenance of all signs using
electric power in any manner shall be subject to the following requirements:
         (i)   Electrical systems and fasteners shall be maintained at all
times in a safe condition.
         (ii)   Plans and locations shall be approved by the Building Official,
and such signs shall be inspected and approved by him/her before operation. All
such signs must be installed by a qualified and licensed electrician in
accordance with provision of the National Electrical Code.
         (iii)    Proximity to electrical conductor: No signs shall be erected
closer than ten feet to any overhead electrical conductor, where the difference
in potential between any two conductors or between one conductor and ground
exceeds 750 volts.
         (iv)   All exterior electrical outlets for signs shall terminate in a
galvanized box with a blank cover, which shall be flush with and not protrude
beyond the finished surface of the exterior wall.
         (v)   Transformer boxes, outlets, conduits, and other accessory
equipment for any sign shall be placed so that they are not visible from the
exterior.
         (vi)   Wooden signs shall not have electrical lights or fixtures
attached to them in any manner.
         (vii)   No electrical sign shall be so lighted or maintained as to
throw a glare or blinding light into any street, highway, or other public
thoroughfare, which would be likely to blind or impair the vision of any
motorists upon the street, highway, or thoroughfare.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1476, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 1545,
passed 6-16-16)
§ 5 EXEMPT AND PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Exempt signs. All permanent signs require permits, except for signs
which meet the requirements of this section and all the other requirements of
this chapter. Signs that are exempt from the permitting requirements of this
sign code shall still be counted as part of the total signage allowed by this
sign code and are subject to the city’s building, electrical and other
applicable code requirements. Those signs are:
      (1)   Permanent signs in all zoning districts six square feet or less,
except no more than one per premises. Such signs shall also meet the following
regulations:
         (i)   5 feet from any right-of-way; and
         (ii)   10 feet from side/rear property lines; and
         (iii)   Signs shall be non-illuminated.
      (2)   Temporary signs. However, all temporary commercial message signs
larger than six square feet, except signs on property for sale or lease, must
be registered on a form supplied by the Community Development Director, and a
registration fee of $4.00 is required for each sign.
   (B)   Prohibited signs. It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain the
following signs within the city:
      (1)   Any sign which constitutes a traffic or pedestrian hazard or a
detriment to traffic or pedestrian safety by reason of its size, location,
movement, coloring, or method of illumination. Any sign which obstructs the
vision of pedestrians or vehicles using the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Electronic signs or signs of a flashing, animated or rotating
nature.
      (3)   Bare bulb signs, excluding neon signs.
      (4)   Signs that interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
      (5)   Signs attached to trees, streetlight poles, parking lot light poles
or utility poles.
      (6)   Signs attached to or painted on vehicles, when these vehicles are
not regularly used to make deliveries, pickups or are not otherwise actively
used, and are parked or located in such a way as to advertise.
      (7)   Signs made of combustible materials that are attached to or in
close proximity to fire escapes or firefighting equipment.
      (8)   Roof signs.
      (9)   Pole banners, streamers, ribbons, propellers, searchlights,
balloons or pennants, feather or flutter signs.
      (10)   Portable signs.
      (11)   Pole signs.
      (12)   Any privately owned sign placed or located on or over any public
or private thoroughfare, road, alley, sidewalk or right-of-way within the city.
      (13)   Parasite signs.
      (14)   Sandwich signs or double sided signs exceeding 30 degrees.
      (15)   Snipe signs.
      (16)   Any sign not expressly allowed by this sign code.
      (17)   Discontinued signs.
      (18)   Off-premises signs.
      (19)   Billboards.
      (20)   Animated signs.
      (21)   Intermittent signs.
      (22)   Ground signs greater than 100 square feet in size (area).
      (23)   Banner signs, except as expressly allowed in §
6 of this sign code.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1476, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 1500,
passed 12-5-13; Am. Ord. 1506, passed 5-1-14; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
§ 6 ON PREMISE SIGN REGULATIONS.
   On premise signs are allowed within the City of Lake Mary as provided below
in Table 1, "Sign Regulations per Zoning District", as modified by the Table
Notes.
TABLE 1: SIGN REGULATIONS PER ZONING DISTRICT (A)
         Sum   Wall Sign     Window Sign   Ground Sign
         Total               (C)
Zoning   Max.          Max.          Max.
District Sign  Area    Sign  Area    Sign  Area    Max. Sign          #of Signs
         Area  Calc.   Area  Calc.   Area  Calc.   Area (sf) Type (D) Permitted
         (sf)  (sf/ff) (sf)  (sf/ff) (sf)  (sf/ff)
         (B)
TABLE 1: SIGN REGULATIONS PER ZONING DISTRICT (A)
             Sum   Wall Sign     Window Sign   Ground Sign
             Total               (C)
Zoning       Max.          Max.          Max.          Max.
District     Sign  Area    Sign  Area    Sign  Area    Sign  Type  #of Signs
             Area  Calc.   Area  Calc.   Area  Calc.   Area  (D)   Permitted
             (sf)  (sf/ff) (sf)  (sf/ff) (sf)  (sf/ff) (sf)
             (B)
PO           100   2.0     100   2.0     100   2.0     100   1     1/premise
C-1          100   2.0     100   2.0     100   2.0     100   1     1/premise
C-2          100   2.0     100   2.0     100   2.0     100   1     1/premise
M-1A         200   2.0     200   2.0     200   2.0     200   1     1/premise
M-2A         200   2.0     200   2.0     200   2.0     200   1     1/premise
PUD (G)                                                     
GU           200   2.0     200   2.0     200   2.0     200   1     1/premise
Lake Mary                                                          1/parcel
Blvd.        2 sf/ 1.5     100   1.5     100   1.5     100   2     or
Overlay      ff                                                    premise
District (H)
DC (I)       50    1.5     20    1.5     20    1.5     30    4     1/premis
                                                                   e
Conditional Uses in A-1 and Residential Zoning Districts
Conditional                                                        1/primary
Uses in A-1  100   2.0     100   2.0     100   2.0     100   1     entrance
(E)
Conditional
Uses in
Residential  16    n.a.    16    n.a.    16    n.a.    16    3     1/premise
(F)
(commercial)
Conditional
Uses in
Residential  32    n.a.    32    n.a.    32    n.a.    32    3     1/premise
(G) (non-
commercial)
 
Table Abbreviations: ff = business or building front foot; calc. = calculation;
dvlpmt = development; FLU = Future Land Use; Max. = Maximum; n.a. = not
applicable; sf = square feet; subd. = subdivision
Table Notes:
   (A)   General sign regulations:
      (1)   Sign area computation. In every event, computation of allowable
sign area includes all existing signs on the premises, whether those signs are
conforming or non-conforming under the terms of this sign code.
      (2)   Sign restrictions.
         (a)   No sign on property zoned PO, C-1, C-2, M-1A, M-2A or PUD
Office, Commercial or Industrial uses shall be located within 50 feet of any
residentially zoned property.
         (b)   The total ground sign area shall not exceed 100 square feet per
premise abutting or within 500 feet of Lake Emma right-of-way, Emma Oaks Trail
or Rinehart Road right-of- way. If any portion or part of any premise abuts or
lies within 500 feet of Lake Emma Road, Emma Oaks Trail or Rinehart Road, the
entire premise shall be subject to this restriction.
      (3)   Illumination of signs.
         (a)   No illuminated sign shall exceed 100 square feet if it is
located within 500 feet of property with a residential future land use
designation or zoning district and is visible from the property with the
residential future land use designation or zoning district.
         (b)   Illuminated signs located within 500 feet of property with a
residential future land use designation or zoning district, and which are
visible from the property with the residential future land use designation or
zoning district, shall be turned off no later than 10:00 p.m. and remain off
until 6:00 a.m.
         (c)   Temporary signs shall not be externally or internally
illuminated.
         (d)   Ground signs may be externally illuminated. Any external
illumination must be a burial fixture or hidden within a planter bed. Ground
signs other than subdivision ground signs may be internally illuminated.
      (4)   Changeable copy signs. Changeable copy sign area shall be
calculated as part of the total maximum allowable sign area in the zoning
district in which it is located. Only one side of a double-faced sign shall be
counted for sign area calculation purposes. Changeable copy signs have the
following restrictions:
         (a)   The total sign area for the changeable copy signs must not
exceed 32 square feet per premise.
         (b)   All signs must be constructed of brick or split face block.
         (c)   All signs must be located at least five feet from the property
line or right-of-way, and not create sight visibility problems for pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.
         (d)   On property zoned residential or PUD, the changeable copy sign:
            (i)   Must not include exposed pole supports;
            (ii)   Must be landscaped with shrubs;
            (iii)    Must store lettering in an enclosed lockable cabinet and
the lettering must be securely adhered to the surface using track lettering
technology or other similar technique. In addition, the letter board shall be
continuously checked by the owner for warping or other defects, and replaced,
if necessary;
            (iv)   May be internally lighted; and
            (v)   Shall be located at least five feet from property line or
right-of-way and not create sight visibility problems for pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
      (5)   Multistory buildings with multiple occupants are allowed the total
square footage of wall signage as allotted in Table 1. One wall sign may be
placed on two fo the facades provided that one of the chosen facades is the
main front entrance.
   (B)   Additional signage allowances. Additional signage may be allowed under
specified conditions as follows:
      (1)   Anchor occupant in multi-occupant building. Anchor occupants in a
multi-occupant building, where the anchor exceeds 100 building front feet shall
be allowed an additional one square foot of sign area for each building front
foot over and above 100 building front feet, but not to exceed 200 square feet
of sign area per occupant. This can be wall signage, window signage or a
combination thereof.
      (2)   Corner occupant in multi-occupant building. Additional wall signage
shall be allowed for side facades of corner occupants in multi-occupant
buildings calculated at a maximum 2 square feet per building front foot up to a
maximum of 100 square feet. This shall apply only where the same or similar
facade treatment is used on the side of the building as presented on the front
of the building and where there is an entrance to the general public along said
building side. Sign area is not transferable between front and side facades.
      (3)   Interstate 4 frontage. Premises with frontage on Interstate 4 shall
be allowed additional signage as follows:
         (a)   Maximum sign area. The maximum sign area for properties abutting
Interstate 4 shall be calculated at 2 square feet per building front foot, not
to exceed 350 square feet of sign area. This shall include all ground signs,
wall signs and window signs as permitted per the zoning district, as provided
in Table 1.
         (b)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall not exceed 100 square feet.
         (c)   Grounds signs shall not be allowed within two hundred feet of
the Interstate 4 right-of-way.
         (d)   Wall signs. Properties abutting Interstate 4 may have an
additional fifty square feet of wall sign area to be utilized on the facade
facing Interstate 4, subject to (a) above. Individual wall signs shall not
exceed 200 square feet if facing Interstate 4. For all other building facades
individual wall signs shall not exceed the maximum wall sign area as prescribed
in Table 1 per the applicable zoning district.
         (e)   Window signs. Window signage, if allowed, shall not exceed the
maximum sign area as prescribed in Table 1 per the applicable zoning district.
   (C)   Window signs. A maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the glassed area of
the building facade may contain window signage. Such signage shall be so
located so as to provide a clear and unobstructed view of the cash register and
sales area from the street as set forth in § 116.02(B) of the city's Code of
Ordinances.
   (D)   Ground sign design standards.
      (1)   Type 1: General ground sign design standards. (See
illustration B)
         (a)   Design. Vertical structure supports for ground signs shall be
concealed in an enclosed base. The width of such enclosed base shall be equal
to at least two-thirds the horizontal width of the sign surface.
         (b)   Construction materials. The base shall be of a low maintenance
finish which is compatible with the architectural style of the principal
building limited to split face block, stone, finished metal, or brick. Sign
bases finished with stucco, raw concrete, exposed concrete block, or wood are
strictly prohibited.
         (c)   Illumination. See Table Note 1(C), Illumination of Signs.
         (d)   Height. The maximum height of the top of the sign shall be 15
feet from average grade elevation upon which the sign is located.
         (e)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks for any part of the sign structure
shall be as follows, but in no case shall any portion of a sign structure
interfere with safe sight visibility along a roadway or at an intersection:
            (i)   5 feet from any right-of-way.
            (ii) 10 feet from any side property line.
      (2)   Type 2: Lake Mary Boulevard Ground Sign Design Standards. (See
illustration C)
         (a)   Design. Vertical structure supports for ground signs shall be
concealed in an enclosed base. The width of such enclosed base shall be equal
to at least two-thirds the horizontal width of the sign surface.
            A planter structure shall enclose the foot of the base. The planter
shall be between two and three feet in height above the ground, with a minimum
length equal to the width of the sign and a minimum width of three feet.
         (b)   Construction materials.
            1.   For those properties within the Gateway Corridor, which have
Downtown Development District (DDD) land use, the base and planter shall be
constructed of a low maintenance finish which is compatible with the
architectural style of the principal building limited to split face block,
stone, finished metal, or brick. Sign bases finished with stucco, raw concrete,
exposed concrete block or wood are strictly prohibited.
            2.   For all other properties within the Gateway Corridor, the base
and planter shall be constructed of brick.
         (c)   Illumination. See Table Note 1(C), Illumination of Signs.
         (d)   Height. The maximum height of the top of the sign shall be 15
feet from the nearest sidewalk.
         (e)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks for any part of the sign structure
shall be as follows, but in no case shall any portion of a sign structure
interfere with safe sight visibility along a roadway or at an intersection:
            (i)   5 feet from any right-of-way.
            (ii)    10 feet from any side property line.
      (3)   Type 3: Subdivision Ground Sign Design Standards. (See
illustration D)
         (a)   Design. Vertical structure supports for subdivision signs shall
be concealed in an enclosed base. The width of such enclosed base shall be
equal to the horizontal width of the sign surface.
         (b)   Construction materials. The base shall be of a low maintenance
finish. Stucco, wood, raw concrete and exposed concrete block are strictly
prohibited.
         (c)   Illumination. Any external above ground light source shall be
located and hidden within the planter bed or shall be in a burial fixture. Type
3 ground signs shall not be internally illuminated.
         (d)   Height. The maximum height of the top of the sign shall be 6
feet from average grade elevation upon which the sign is located.
         (e)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks for any part of the sign structure
shall be as follows, but in no case shall any portion of a sign structure
interfere with safe sight visibility along a roadway or at an intersection:
            (i)   5 feet from any right-of-way.
            (ii)    10 feet from any side property line.
         (f)   The signs may be either a Type 3 ground sign or cut out letters
affixed to subdivision wing walls, but not both. Cut out lettering shall not
exceed 24 inches in height.
      (4)   Type 4: Downtown Development District Ground Sign Design Standards.
(See
illustration E)
         (a)   Design. The ground sign may be erected with a double pole base
or an enclosed base. The pole spread or the enclosed base must be equal to two-
thirds (2/3) the width of the sign. A landscape planting area surrounding the
poles or base shall be planted with shrubbery and/or flowers. The owner shall
be responsible for maintaining the planter area in order to ensure proper
growth and aesthetics of the plant material.
         (b)   Construction materials. The base shall be of a low maintenance
finish. Stucco, raw concrete and exposed concrete block are strictly
prohibited.
         (c)   Illumination. See Table Note 1(C), Illumination of Signs.
         (d)   Height. The maximum height of the top of the sign shall be 4
feet from average grade elevation upon which the sign is located.
         (e)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks for any part of the sign structure
shall be as follows, but in no case shall any portion of a sign structure
interfere with safe sight visibility along a roadway or at an intersection:
            (i)   5 feet from any right-of-way.
            (ii)    10 feet from any side property line.
   (E)   Planned Unit Development (PUD) Zoning Districts. Individual uses
within an approved PUD shall be allowed signage according to the zoning
district in which the particular use would be a permitted use, unless otherwise
provided for in the ordinance creating the PUD or by a PUD Development
Agreement.
   (F)   Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards. All signage on properties defined
as being within the “Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards Classification” in
Chapter 158, Lake Mary Code of Ordinances shall be regulated as provided by
this sign code. (Note: Where the Downtown Development Overlay Standards
District and the Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards Classification District
overlap, signage shall be regulated in accordance with the Downtown Overlay
Standards.)
      (1)   Description of district. The Lake Mary Boulevard Overlay District
is described as all property within 320 feet of the centerline of Lake Mary
Boulevard including intersecting roadways to the same depth. If any part of any
premises abuts the right of way line of the Lake Mary Boulevard, the entire
premises shall be subject to these regulations as if the premises were wholly
within the “Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards Classification”.
   (G)   Downtown Development Overlay Standards. All signage on properties
within the “Downtown Development Overlay Standards District” as defined in §
154.67, Lake Mary Code of Ordinances, shall be regulated as provided by this
sign code. (Note: Where the Downtown Development Overlay Standards District and
the Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards Classification District overlap, signage
shall be regulated in accordance with the Lake Mary Boulevard Overlay
Standards.)
      (1)   Description of district. The Downtown Development District is
described as lying north of Lake Mary Boulevard, south of Alma Avenue, east of
Fifth Street and west of Old Lake Mary Road (see §
154.67 of the city’s Code of Ordinances for district boundary illustration).
      (2)   Maximum sign area. Signage shall conform to the requirements of
this sign code with the following exceptions:
         (a)   The maximum allowable sign area per non-residential premises
shall not exceed 1.5 square feet per business front foot up to a maximum of 50
square feet. The maximum allowable sign area may consist of the following
signs:
            1.   One (1) ground sign not to exceed a maximum of 30 square feet
of sign area. Any ground sign within the Downtown Development Standards Overlay
District shall be a Type 4 Ground sign; and
            2.   One (1) of the following signs not to exceed a maximum of 20
square feet of sign area: wall sign, window sign, or projecting sign.
   (H)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Consolidation into ground sign. In lieu of temporary signage,
ground sign area for developed properties may be increased by up to 25% of the
maximum sign area for temporary signs. Where the owner takes advantage of this
additional 25% allotment, freestanding temporary signs are prohibited.
      (2)   Table 2 contains the criteria and limitations for all temporary
signs in all zoning districts.
TABLE 2: Temporary signs.
                 R-1A, R-1AA, R-1AAA,
                 R-1B, RCE, RM and    A-1 property with    C-1, C-2, M-1A, M-
Zoning Districts property, PUDs1 and  Primarily Commercial 2A, GU, DC, and
                 A-1 with Primarily   Uses2 PO             PUDs1
                 Residential Uses2
                    R-1A, R-1AA, R-
                    1AAA, R-1B, RCE, RM A-1 property with    C-1, C-2, M-1A, M-
Zoning Districts    and property, PUDs1 Primarily Commercial 2A, GU, DC, and
                    and A-1 with        Uses2 PO             PUDs1
                    Primarily
                    Residential Uses2
Maximum number of
Temporary signs per 2                   2                    2
premises3 and 5
Maximum sign size
(area) for a        6 sf.               32 sf.               64 sf.
temporary sign4
Maximum sign height
for a temporary     5 ft.               10 ft.               10 ft.
freestanding sign5
and 6
Minimum sign
setback required to
be maintained by a  5 ft.               5 ft.                5 ft.
temporary ground
sign from any front
property line7
Minimum sign
setback from side   10 ft.              10 ft.               10 ft.
yard
Minimum sign
setback required to
be maintained by a
temporary ground    5 ft.               5 ft.                5 ft.
sign from the edge
of any paved street
or road or right-
of-way
Minimum spacing
that is required to
be maintained by a
temporary ground    10 ft.              30 ft.               30 ft.
sign from any other
temporary ground
sign5
Maximum aggregate
surface area
allocated for all   12 sf.              64 sf.               128 sf.
temporary signs on
a premises8
Whether temporary
signs is allowed on No                  No                   No
public property or
public right-of-way
Allowed in a sight  No                  No                   No
visibility triangle
Direct illumination
of surface of       No                  No                   No
temporary sign
allowed
Duration allowed    7 calendar days     7 calendar days      7 calendar days
after events ends
Duration if not
associated with     30 days             30 days              30 days
event9
Footnotes:
1   PUD Agreements control over this table, if in conflict.
2   "Primarily" means more than 50%.
3   Temporary commercial banner signs are limited to one per year per premises
with a maximum duration of display of no more than a 30 day period per calendar
year, and are subject to the standards in division (H)4.
4   The square footage limitation is for one side of a sign. For example, a
four square foot limitation means that there is a limit of eight square feet of
surface area for a back-to-back sign.
5   Not applicable to signs displayed on flagpoles.
6   In planned unit developments, the height of the sign shall be determined by
the use of the area in which it is proposed, but not more than ten feet.
7   Minimum sign setbacks do not apply to wall signs. All temporary signs are
prohibited on public property and public rights-of-way.
8   There is no limit to the number of separate messages that may appear on the
allowable surface(s) of any temporary sign. The maximum aggregate surface area
allowed is subject to circumstances that may reduce the maximum aggregate
surface area allowable on some premises.
9   Applies to commercial temporary signs only.
 
      (3)   Additional signs during elections. Additional temporary
noncommercial signage shall be allowed for the 90 days prior to and seven
calendar days following any Federal, State of Florida, Seminole County, or city
election, not to exceed:
         (a)   Six square feet per sign, but not to exceed a cumulative total
of 30 additional square feet in residential districts:
         (b)   Up to 64 square feet per sign in commercial zoning districts
(including office and industrial), but not to exceed a cumulative total of 320
additional square feet:
         (c)   In all other respects, these signs must comply with Table 2.
      (4)   Development standards for temporary signs. All temporary signs
shall comply with the following;
         (a)   Duration for display of temporary commercial sign. If a
temporary commercial sign pertains to an event, the temporary sign shall be
removed within and by no later than seven calendar days after the event is
concluded. If a temporary commercial sign does not pertain to an event, the
temporary commercial sign shall be removed within and by no later than 30 days
after being erected.
         (b)   Display of temporary sign requires permission of real property
owner. A temporary sign on any premises shall not be maintained if the
placement of the same does not have the permission of the owner of real
property.
         (c)   A temporary sign must not display any lighting and must remain
static. A temporary sign must not display any lighting or illuminations that
flash, move, rotate, scintillate, blink, flicker, or vary in intensity of
color.
         (d)   A temporary sign must not incorporate fluorescent color or
exhibit fluorescence.
         (e)   A temporary sign must not obstruct a permanent sign or the
vision between pedestrians and vehicles. A temporary sign must not obstruct the
view of a permanent sign as viewed from any public road, street or highway or
any public sidewalk, and must not obstruct the vision between pedestrians and
vehicles using the public right-of-way, including, but not restricted to those
meeting intersection visibility requirements.
         (f)   Temporary sign may display multiple messages. A temporary sign
may display multiple independent messages on any portion of the sign surface of
a temporary sign.
         (g)   A temporary non-commercial sign does not require a permit from
the city. A temporary commercial sign requires registration under §
5(A)(2).
         (h)   Flagpoles and flags: flag brackets, flag stanchions.
            1.    Flagpoles and flags. For each premises and development site
in residential use with one principal structure, one flagpole may be installed
and two flags may be displayed per flagpole. For each premises and development
site that is over one-half acre in size and is in nonresidential use, up to
three flagpoles may be installed and up to two flags may be displayed per
flagpole.
            2.   Flag brackets, flag stanchions, and flags. For each principal
structure on a premises, up to two flag brackets or stanchions may be attached
or placed for the display of flags. A flag displayed from a flag bracket or a
flag stanchion shall not exceed 24 square feet in size.
            3.   For the purpose of determining the size of a flag, only one
side of the flag shall be counted as the display surface.
            4.   Flags on premises in non-residential use may be externally
illuminated.
      (5)   Temporary Banner signs.
         (a)   Temporary banner signs must be located at the store-front of the
business, or on a flagpole.
         (b)   Banner signs shall not exceed a maximum area of 32 square feet
per premise.
         (c)   The banner signage shall not be displayed in excess of 12 feet
in height above the ground, unless on a flagpole.
         (d)   Banner signs must be attached to the building of the advertised
location of the business.
         (e)   For duration of display, see Footnote 3 to Table 2.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1086, passed 3-20-03; Am. Ord. 1171,
passed 7-7-05; Am. Ord. 1476, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 1506, passed 5-1-14;
Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
§ 7 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Removal of signs. Private signs on public property or public rights-
of-way may be removed by the city or its agents without notice to the sign
owner.
   (B)   Should any sign be in danger of falling, or otherwise unsafe in the
opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer or the Building Official, the owner
thereof, or person maintaining the sign, shall, upon receipt of written
notification from the Building Official or Code Enforcement Officer,
immediately secure the sign, cause it to be placed in good repair or remove the
sign.
   (C)   Removal of illegally erected signs. Where this sign code requires work
on a sign to be performed by a licensed contractor and such work is not
performed by a licensed contractor, the owner or lessee of the property where
such illegally erected sign is located shall either:
      (1)   Have the sign immediately removed; or
      (2)   Have a licensed contractor secure a permit for such sign. City
inspections of the sign shall be performed.
   (D)   Termination of unlawful illumination. Upon receipt of written
notification by the Code Enforcement Officer or Building Official that a sign
is illuminated in violation of this sign code, the owner, his agent, or person
in control of the premises, shall immediately terminate the prohibited
illumination of such sign.
   (E)   Violation; penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
comply with any of the provisions of this sign code. The city may take any one
or a combination of the following actions:
      (1)   Prosecute any violation of any provision of this sign code in
accordance with §
10.99 of the city's Code of Ordinances; or
      (2)   Refer any violation of any provision of this sign code to the
City's Code Enforcement Board pursuant to the terms of
Ch. 30 of the city's Code of Ordinances; or
      (3)   Issue a code enforcement citation for any violation of any
provision this sign code pursuant to the terms of §§
37.01 et al. of the city's Code of Ordinances; or
      (4)   In its discretion, seek the aid of the courts with respect to the
enforcement of this sign code, which right shall include the right to seek
declaratory and injunctive relief against any person violating any provisions
of this sign code.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01)
§ 8 REGULATION OF NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Amortization. Any lawfully existing permanent sign which was made non-
conforming by the adoption of this sign code (Ordinance No. 1029) or any
subsequent amendments shall be brought into compliance with these provisions of
this sign code or any subsequent amendments within seven years from the date
upon which the sign became non- conforming. Any existing temporary sign which
existed on 10/4/01 shall be brought into compliance with the provisions of this
sign code or any subsequent amendments within two years from that date. The
amortization provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any sign subject
to the Federal Highway Beautification Act or Chapter 479 of the Florida
Statutes as from time to time amended.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance. The owner of a non-conforming sign may carry
out maintenance or repairs that are required by the City Code or that are
reasonably necessary or commonly engaged in to maintain the sign in a
reasonably usable condition. Repairs or maintenance of a non-conforming sign
shall not extend its useful life beyond its amortization period.
   (C)   Damage or destruction. If any non-conforming sign is damaged or
destroyed to such an extent that the cost of repair or reconstruction of the
sign is fifty percent (50%) or more of the depreciated value of the sign at the
time it is damaged or destroyed, then the non- conforming sign shall be made to
comply with the provisions of this sign code and any subsequent amendments.
   (D)   Discontinuance. A sign that is discontinued as defined in this sign
code shall lose its non-conforming status. An intent to abandon is not
necessary to establish discontinuance.
   (E)   Alteration. A non-conforming sign shall not be moved, structurally
altered, enlarged or changed in height or size.
   (F)   Illegal sign. The use of an illegal sign shall not be sufficient to
establish the existence of a non-conforming sign or to create any rights to the
continuation of such sign.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01; Am. Ord. 1086, passed 3-20-03; Am. Ord. 1476,
passed 12-20-12)
§ 9 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Sign Code Board of Adjustment. The Planning and Zoning Board is hereby
designated as the Sign Code Board of Adjustment, and is authorized to consider
variances from the requirements of § 6 of this sign code in specific cases
where such variances will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
sign code would result in unnecessary hardship. No action of the Board shall be
valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of three or more
members of the Board. A written application for a variance to the requirements
of §
6 of this sign code shall be filed with the city.
      (1)   In applying the standards contained in the previous paragraph, the
Sign Code Board of Adjustment shall make affirmative findings of fact on each
of the following:
         (a)   a unique condition or circumstance exists which is peculiar to
the sign involved, which is not applicable to other signs; and
         (b)   a literal interpretation of the provisions of §
6 of this sign code would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by
other properties with similar conditions; and
         (c)   the unique conditions or circumstances do not result from self-
imposed actions of the applicant; and
         (d)   the granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the provisions of §
6 of this sign code to others under similar conditions; and
         (e)   non-conforming signs, illegal signs or other sign variances on
neighboring lands are not the basis for the issuance of the variance; and
         (f)   the variance granted is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the sign; and
         (g)   the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general
intent and purpose of §
6 of this sign code, will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (2)   Conditions on variances. In granting any variance, the Sign Code
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions. Violations of such
conditions, when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted,
are a violation of this sign code.
      (3)   Appeals from Sign Code Board of Adjustment. Any person aggrieved by
a final decision of the Sign Code Board of Adjustment may, within thirty (30)
days of rendition of the final order, appeal by certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Seminole County.
      (4)   Time limit. Any variance granted by the Sign Code Board of
Adjustment shall expire one year after being granted unless a sign permit based
upon and incorporating the variance is approved.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01)
§ 10 INTERPRETATION OF SIGN CODE.
   For purposes of this sign code, all non-commercial speech shall be deemed to
be on premises. Nothing in this sign code shall be construed to regulate the
content of the message displayed on any sign. All such lawful signs may display
a noncommercial message in addition to, or in lieu of, any other message.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-4-01)
§ 11 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   In general. If any part, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
phrase, clause, term, or word of this article is declared unconstitutional by
the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
declaration of such unconstitutionality shall not affect any other part,
section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term or
word of this article.
   (B)   Severability where less speech results. Without diminishing or
limiting in any way the declaration of severability set forth above in division
(A), or elsewhere in this article, this code, or any adopting ordinance, if any
part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, term, or
word of this article is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such
unconstitutionality shall not affect any other part, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
article, even if such severability would result in a situation where there
would be less speech, whether by subjecting previously exempt signs to
permitting or otherwise.
   (C)   Severability of provisions pertaining to prohibited signs. Without
diminishing or limiting in any way the declaration of severability set forth
above in division (A), or elsewhere in this article, this code or any adopting
ordinance, if any part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, phrase,
clause, term, or word of this article is declared unconstitutional by the valid
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of
such unconstitutionality shall not affect any other part, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
article, that pertains to prohibited signs, including specifically those signs
and sign-types prohibited and not allowed under §
5 of this appendix. Furthermore, if any part, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of §
5 is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgement or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality shall not
affect any other part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence,
phrase, clause, term, or word of §
5, thereby ensuring that as many prohibited sign types as may be
constitutionally prohibited continue to be prohibited.
   (D)   Severability of prohibition on billboards. If any part, section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of
this article and/or any other code provisions and/or laws are declared invalid
or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality shall not affect the
prohibition on billboards as contained in this appendix and code.
(Ord. 1476, passed 12-20-12; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
Illustration A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6303.png]
 
Illustration B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5841.gif]
 
Illustration C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5843.gif]
 
Illustration D
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5845.gif]
 
Illustration E
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5847.gif]
 
APPENDIX J: TRANSPORTATION GUIDELINES
Section
   
1.   General outline
   
2.   Macro elements
   
3.   Micro elements
§ 1. GENERAL OUTLINE.
   The following information is provided under two separate categories, Macro
Elements and Micro Elements. This division of the Guidelines was made because
the information provided under each heading represents two distinct steps in
the site development and site review process and in providing roadway
improvements anew and upgraded). Macro Elements contains information that is
used in the planning stages of a traffic and transportation study. Information
in the Micro Elements section provides specific design features that are to be
incorporated into the actual site plan or roadway improvement. The information
provided in this Appendix applies in general to any traffic and/or
transportation related activity. A separate provision is included later in this
Appendix which provides recommendations for upgrading CR 562 (Lake Mary
Boulevard) specifically.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
§ 2. MACRO ELEMENTS.
   Information provided in this Macro Elements section is a compilation of
recognized and/or approved planning and design manuals, computer programs,
definitions, and so forth, used in traffic and transportation planning/
engineering. The formal adoption of this document by the City Commission
establishes the city's recognition/confirmation of these items for use by
developers and city staff.
   (A)   Design manuals. The following design manuals shall be used when
preparing conceptual and final design plans for the transportation elements of
a project:
      (1)   1985 Highway Capacity Manual.
      (2)   1984 AASHTO Policy on Geometric Design of Highway and streets.
      (3)   1984 AASHTO Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges.
      (4)   1978 Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      (5)   1984 Florida Department of Transportation Manual of Uniform Minimum
Standards for Design, Construction and Maintenance for Streets and Highways.
      (6)   ITE Trip Generation, Third Edition.
      (7)   Site Planning Design, Chiaro and Koppelman.
      (8)   NCHRP, Report 187, Quick Response Urban Travel Estimation
Techniques and Transferable Parameters - Users Guide.
   Any design or planning manual, report, paper, or the like that a developer
or staff member wishes to use in addition to those listed must have the
document approved by the city.
   (B)   Planning and design computer programs. The following programs are
acceptable for uses in the planning and design of transportation facilities.
      (1)   Intersection Capacity Analysis (CAPCALC, Ver. 2) based on Circular
212.
      (2)   Quick Response System prepared for US DOT/FHWA, January, 1984.
      (3)   Min UTP.
      (4)   Micro Trips.
      (5)   Traffic Signal Timing Operation: TRANSYT 7F.
      (6)   McTRANS Package for Traffic Engineering.
      (7)   Coordinate Geometry (COGO) for roadway geometry.
      (8)   CALINE 3 Calif. State Dept. of Transportation, 1979 for FHWA. A
versatile Dispersion Model for Predicting Air Pollutant Levels Near Highways
and Arterial Streets.
      (9)   TEXIN Texas Transportation Institute, State Department of Highways
and Public Transportation Cooperative Research, 1982 (in cooperation with
FHWA). Estimates of Air Pollution Near Simple Signalized Intersections.
      (10)   PAL Environmental Protection Agency, 1978 A Gaussian-Plume
Algorithm for Point, Area, and Line Sources (model usually accepted for use in
urban areas for parking lots, shopping areas, industrial complexes, and the
like).
      (11)   MOBILE 3 - EPA, 1984 Mobile Source Emissions Model. Calculates
emission factors for hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide (CO) and oxides of nitrogen
from highway motor vehicles (is required if CALINE 3 is used).
      (12)   STAMINA 2. O/OPTIMA FHWA, 1982 Noise Barrier Cost Reduction
Procedure (BCR). The BCR procedure is a computer process employed to predict
highway noise and design noise barriers. The BRC procedure requires the use of
two separate computer programs.
      (13)   FLAMOD FDOT's revised noise model (approved for use in FL by
FHWA). Noise model calculates noise levels from roads.
      (14)   EPA Guidelines - 1978 "Guidelines for Air Quality Maintenance
Planning and Analysis, Volume 9 (Revised): Evaluating Indirect Sources." The
guidelines are designed to evaluate the impact of an indirect source on the air
quality. Indirect sources include:
         (a)   Highways and roads;
         (b)   Parking lots and garages;
         (c)   Airports;
         (d)   Office and government buildings;
         (e)   Apartment, condo, and housing projects; and
         (f)   Retail, commercial, industrial, educational, amusement, sport,
and entertainment facilities,
   Any program that a developer or staff member wishes to use in addition to or
in lieu of the programs listed must have the program approved by the city. A
request for approval must be accompanied by the program name, a general
description of the logic and an example of the output to be used with
description of the information shown.
   (C)   Land use and zoning. An adopted land use plan is one of the single
most important tools available to direct development growth in a positive
manner. A well conceived plan takes into consideration existing land uses, the
regional transportation network, available and planned public services and
utilities and the goals of the controlling government entity to establish the
best and highest land use without overtaxing the infrastructure. Zoning
ordinances complement a land use plan in that they provide more specific
guidance on the development of a piece of property.
      (1)   Adopted land use plan. The land use plan adopted by this city
represents the city's goal for directing land development and shall be used by
developers when a development program is being considered. The adopted land use
plan is available to the public through the City Administrator.
      (2)   Lake Mary Boulevard Land Use Corridor. It is the goal of this city
to direct land use activity adjacent to Lake Mary Boulevard in such a manner as
to minimize the adverse impacts associated with land development that will
affect the service capabilities of the roadway. A two-block corridor width has
been established by the city along Lake Mary Boulevard as a special study area
to correlate to the Lake Mary Boulevard Corridor Study completed in December,
1985. Figure 4-1 shows the land uses established for this corridor.
   [See hard copy of Code for Figure 4-1.]
      (3)   Zoning and subdivision regulations. This city updated its zoning
ordinances and subdivision regulations in 1985 (incorporated into the 1985 Land
Development Code) and these are to be used by a developer unless otherwise
directed by the city.
   (D)   Traffic and parking laws, rules, ordinances. The following laws, rules
and ordinances have been adopted by the city to prevent the breakdown of a
roadway's serviceability and minimize property damage and loss of life due to
unacceptable driving practices by the motorist:
      (1)   Acknowledgment of federal, state, and county laws, rules and
ordinances regarding the use of the roadway system.
      (2)   Ordinance 221, passed 4-18-85.
   (E)   Functional classification. The following information defines the
functional classification of roadways which are applicable to the roadway
network locally and regionally associated with this city. These definitions
will be used when planning and designing roadway improvements:
      (1)   Arterial roadways.
         (a)   A route providing service which is relatively continuous and
with relatively high traffic volume, long average trip length, high operating
speed and/or high mobility importance.
         (b)   The following roadways are classified as arterial roadways:
            1.   Interstate 4;
            2.   Lake Mary Boulevard;
            3.   State Road 17-92.
      (2)   Collector roadway.
         (a)   A route providing service which is of relatively moderate
average traffic volume, moderately average trip length, and moderately average
operating speed. Such a route also collects and distributes traffic between
local roads and/or arterial roads and serves as a linkage between land access
and mobility needs.
         (b)   The following roadways are classified as collector roadways:
            1.   Lake Emma Road;
            2.   Longwood-lake Mary Road;
            3.   Old Lake Mary Road;
            4.   Country Club Road;
            5.   Rinehart Road.
      (3)   Local roadway.
         (a)   A route providing service which is of relatively low average
traffic volume, short average trip length or minimum through-traffic movements,
and high land access for abutting property.
         (b)   All roadways not listed above will be considered local roads.
   (F)   Defined levels of service. The following generalized definitions for
Level of Service (LOS), shown on Table 4-1, will apply when evaluating the
operational characteristics and serviceability of a roadway. A roadway will
exhibit lighting values of capacity and speed relative to its cross-sectional
elements, horizontal and vertical geometry, signalization, and the like. Table
4-2 provides generalized highway capacities as a function of Level of Service,
functional classification, and number of through lanes. The 1985 Highway
Capacity Manual shall be used to defined the capacity of a specific roadway.
   TABLE 4-1
   LEVEL OF SERVICE PARAMETERS
      (1)   Uninterrupted Flow conditions:
         Level of Service A - a condition of free flow, accompanied by low
volumes and high speeds. Traffic density will be low, with uninterrupted flow
speeds controlled by driver desires, speed limits, and physical roadway
conditions. There is little or no restriction in maneuverability due to the
presence of other vehicles, and drivers can maintain their desired speeds with
little or no delay. This level of service represents under 0.76 volume/design
capacity ratio.
         Level of Service B - in the zone of stable flow with operating speeds
beginning to be restricted somewhat by traffic conditions. Drivers still have
reasonable freedom to select their speed and lane of operation. Reduction in
speed is not unreasonable, with a low probability of traffic flow being
restricted. The low limit (lowest speed, highest volume) of this level of
service has been associated with service volumes used in the design of rural
highways. This level of service represents a range of 0.76 - 0.875 volume/
design capacity ratio.
         Level of Service C - still in the zone of stable flow, but speeds and
maneuverability are more closely controlled by the higher volumes. Most of the
drivers are restricted in their freedom to select their own speed, change
lanes, or pass. A relatively satisfactory operating speed is still obtained,
with service volumes suitable for urban design practice. This level of service
represents approximately a range of 0.876 to 1.00 volume/design capacity ratio.
         Level of Service D - approaches unstable flow, with tolerable
operating speeds being maintained, though considerably affected by changes in
operating conditions. Fluctuations in volume and temporary restrictions to flow
may cause substantial drops in operating speeds. Drivers have little freedom to
maneuver, and comfort and convenience are low. These conditions can be
tolerated, however, for short periods of time. This level of service represents
approximately a range of 1.01 to 1.125 volume/design capacity ratio.
         Level of Service E - cannot be described by speed alone, but
represents operation at even lower operating speeds typically, but not always,
in the neighborhood of 30 m.p.h. with volumes at or near the capacity of the
highway. Flow is unstable, and there may be stoppage of momentary duration.
This level of service represents a range of 1.125 to 1.25 volume/design
capacity ratio.
         Level of Service F - describes a forced flow operation at low speeds,
where volumes are below capacity. This level of service does not have a
meaningful volume/design capacity ratio.
      (2)   At-Grade Intersections:
         Level of Service A - a condition of "free flow" (occasional stop on a
red phase, otherwise unrestricted) with a green signal time/signal cycle ratio
below 0.76.
         Level of Service B - a condition of the "stable flow" (an occasional
intersection approach may be fully utilized, restrictions caused by platooning
effect only) with a green signal time/signal cycle ratio from 0.76 to 0.875.
         Level of Service C - a condition of "stable flow" (drivers usually are
not detained more than one red signal indication; back-ups may develop behind
turning vehicles) with a green signal cycle time/signal cycle ratio from 0.876
to 1.00.
         Level of Service D - a condition approaching "unstable flow" (delays
to approaching vehicle may be substantial during short peaks within the peak
period, but enough signal cycles with lower demand occur to permit periodic
clearance of developing queues, thus preventing excessive back-ups) with a
green signal cycle time/signal ratio from 1.0 to 1.125.
         Level of Service E - a condition of "unstable flow" or capacity (the
greatest volume the intersection can accommodate; at capacity there may be long
queues of vehicles waiting upstream of the intersection and delays may be
great, up to several signal cycles) with a green signal cycle time/signal cycle
ratio from 1.126 to 1.25.
         Level of Service F - a condition of "forced flow" (jammed conditions,
back-ups from location downstream or on the cross street may restrict or
prevent movement of vehicles out of intersection approaches) with a green cycle
time/signal cycle ratio not being meaningful.
Source: Planning Guidelines
(Transportation), Seminole County, Florida
TABLE 4-2A
GENERALIZED PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE MAXIMUM
VOLUMES FOR FLORIDA'S URBAN/URBANIZED (5,000+) AREAS
(valid for use from January 1989 through December 1990)
CLASS I
TWO-WAY ARTERIALS
TABLE 4-2A
GENERALIZED PEAK HOUR LEVEL OF SERVICE MAXIMUM
VOLUMES FOR FLORIDA'S URBAN/URBANIZED (5,000+) AREAS
(valid for use from January 1989 through December 1990)
CLASS I
TWO-WAY ARTERIALS
Group A (0.0 to 0.75 signalized intersections per mile)
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A     B     C     D     E
2 Undiv.      1,310 1,440 1,490 1,580 1,670
4 Div.        2,880 3,070 3,170 3,360 3,530
6 Div.        4,360 4,620 4,770 5,000 5,300
Group B (0.76 to 1.5 signalized intersections per mile)
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A     B     C     D     E
2 Undiv.      870   1,310 1,390 1,470 1,540
4 Div.        1,920 2,850 2,970 3,120 3,270
6 Div.        2,930 4,330 4,480 4,700 4,910
Group C (1.6 to 2.5 signalized intersections per mile)
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A**   B     C     D     E
2 Undiv.      --    980   1,290 1,420 1,510
4 Div.        --    2,190 2,830 3,040 3,210
6 Div.        --    3,370 4,320 4,600 4,830
Group D (2.6 to 3.5 signalized intersections per mile)
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A**   B**   C     D     E
2 Undiv.      --    --    880   1,310 1,470
4 Div.        --    --    1,930 2,900 3,180
6 Div.        --    --    2,940 4,440 4,820
Group E (3.6 to 4.5 signalized intersections per mile)
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A**   B**   C**   D     E
2 Undiv.      --    --    --    1,180 1,410
4 Div.        --    --    --    2,530 3,080
6 Div.        --    --    --    3,790 4,690
 
CLASS II
Group F (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and not within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C** D     E
2 Undiv.      --  --  --  990   1,400
4 Div.        --  --  --  2,180 3,080
6 Div.        --  --  --  3,360 4,710
 
CLASS III
Group G (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C** D     E
2 Undiv.      --  --  --  1,260 1,480
4 Div.        --  --  --  2,810 3,230
6 Div.        --  --  --  4,340 4,920
 
DIVIDED/UNDIVIDED ADJUSTMENTS
(alter corresponding two-way arterial volume indicated percent)
 
Lanes Median    Left Turn Bays Adjustment Factor
2     Divided   Yes            + 5%
2     Undivided No             - 15%
Multi Undivided Yes            - 5%
Multi Undivided No             - 20%
 
FREEWAYS
Group 1 (within urbanized area over 500,000 and leading to or within 5 miles of
primary city central business district)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A     B     C      D      E
4     2,470 3,810 5,440  6,570  7,060
6     3,710 5,720 8,160  9,850  10,590
8     4,940 7,630 10,880 13,140 14,120
10    6,180 9,530 13,590 16,420 17,650
 
Group 2 (within urbanized area over 50,000 and not in Group 1)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A     B     C      D      E
4     2,350 3,630 5,180  6,250  6,390
6     3,530 5,450 7,770  9,360  10,090
8     4,710 7,280 10,360 12,510 13,450
10    5,880 9,080 12,950 15,640 16,810
 
Group 3 (within non-urbanized areas)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A     B     C     D      E
4     2,240 3,450 4,940 5,940  6,390
6     3,350 5,180 7,380 6,910  9,580
8     4,470 6,900 9,840 11,880 12,780
 
CLASS I
ONE-WAY ARTERIALS
Group D (less than 3.6 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B          C     D     E
2     --  1,080      1,600 1,830 1,950
3     --             2,450 2,770 2,940
4     --  2,1501,610 3,320 3,710 3,930
 
Group E (3.6 to 4.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C     D     E
2     --  --  1,440 1,750 1,900
3     --  --  2,190 2,670 2,870
4     --  --  2,920 3,600 3,850
 
CLASS II
Group F (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and not within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C     D     E
2     --  --  1,180 1,680 1,910
3     --  --  1,790 2,590 2,890
4     --  --  2,410 3,500 3,870
 
CLASS III
Group G (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C     D     E
2     --  --  1,440 1,880 1,960
3     --  --  2,210 2,830 2,990
4     --  --  2,980 3,800 4,000
 
TWO-WAY COLLECTORS AND LOCAL STREETS
(signalized intersection analysis)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C     D     E
2     --  --  730   1,110 1,240
3     --  --  1,560 2,330 2,540
4     --  --  2,390 3,570 3,850
 
*The table does not constitute a standard and should be used only for general
planning applications. The computer models from which this table is derived
should be used for more specific planning applications. The table and deriving
computer models should not be used for corridor or intersection design, where
more refined techniques exist. Values shown are average daily traffic maximum
volumes (based on peak hour volumes) for levels of service and are based on the
1985 Highway Capacity Manual and Florida traffic data. Roadways with more than
the number of lanes shown should be treated on a case by case basis. The
table's input value assumptions and level of service criteria appear on the
back.
**Cannot be achieved.
Source: Florida Department of Transportation, 1988.
TABLE 4-2B
GENERALIZED DAILY LEVEL OF SERVICE MAXIMUM VOLUMES FOR FLORIDA'S URBAN/
URBANIZED (5,000+) AREAS
(valid for use from January 1989 through December 1990)
CLASS I
TWO-WAY ARTERIALS
Group A (0.0 to 0.75 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A      B      C      D      E
2 Undiv.      13,700 15,000 16,600 16,500 17,400
4 Div.        29,800 31,900 33,000 34,900 36,700
6 Div.        45,400 48,100 49,700 52,400 55,200
 
Group B (0.76 to 1.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A      B      C      D      E
2 Undiv.      9,000  13,700 14,500 15,300 16,100
4 Div.        20,000 29,700 31,000 32,500 34,000
6 Div.        30,600 45,100 46,700 48,900 51,200
 
Group C (1.6 to 2.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A* B      C      D      E
2 Undiv.      -- 10,200 13,500 14,800 15,700
4 Div.        -- 22,800 29,500 31,700 33,400
6 Div.        -- 35,100 45,000 47,900 50,300
 
Group D (2.6 to 3.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C      D      E
2 Undiv.      --  --  9,200  13,700 15,400
4 Div.        --  --  20,100 30,200 33,200
6 Div.        --  --  30,700 46,300 50,200
 
Group E (3.6 to 4.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C** D      E
2 Undiv.      --  --  --  12,300 14,600
4 Div.        --  --  --  26,300 32,100
6 Div.        --  --  --  39,500 48,800
 
CLASS II
Group F (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and not within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C** D      E
2 Undiv.      --  --  --  10,300 14,600
4 Div.        --  --  --  22,800 32,100
6 Div.        --  --  --  34,900 49,000
 
CLASS III
Group G (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes/Divided Level of Service
              A** B** C** D      E
2 Undiv.      --  --  --  13,100 15,400
4 Div.        --  --  --  29,300 33,700
6 Div.        --  --  --  45,200 51,200
 
DIVIDED/UNDIVIDED ADJUSTMENTS
(alter corresponding two-way arterial volume indicated percent)
 
Lanes Median    Left Turn Bays Adjustment Factor
2     Divided   Yes            + 5%
2     Undivided No             - 15%
Multi Undivided Yes            - 5%
Multi Undivided No             - 20%
 
FREEWAYS
Group 1 (within urbanized area over 500,000 and leading to or within 5 miles of
primary city central business distract)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A      B       C       D       E
4     27,800 42,800  61,100  73,800  79,300
6     41,700 64,300  91,600  110,700 119,000
8     55,500 85,700  122,200 147,600 158,700
10    69,400 107,100 152,700 184,500 198,400
 
Group 2 (within urbanized area over 50,000 and not in Group 1)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A      B      C       D       E
4     21,400 33,000 47,100  56,900  61,100
6     32,100 49,500 70,600  85,300  91,700
8     42,800 66,000 94,200  113,700 122,300
10    53,500 82,500 117,700 142,200 152,900
 
Group 3 (within non-urbanized areas)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A      B      C      D      E
4     17,100 26,300 37,600 45,400 48,800
6     25,600 39,500 56,300 68,000 73,200
8     34,100 52,700 75,100 90,700 97,500
 
CLASS I
ONE-WAY ARTERIALS
Group D (less than 3.6 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B      C      D      E
2     --  9,800  14,800 16,900 18,000
3     --  14,900 22,700 25,600 27,200
4     --  19,900 30,800 34,300 36,300
 
Group E (3.6 to 4.5 signalized intersections per mile)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C      D      E
2     --  --  13,300 16,200 17,600
3     --  --  20,300 24,800 26,600
4     --  --  27,100 33,300 35,600
 
CLASS II
Group F (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and not within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C      D      E
2     --  --  10,900 15,600 17,700
3     --  --  16,600 23,900 26,800
4     --  --  22,400 32,400 35,900
 
CLASS III
Group G (more than 4.5 signalized intersections per mile and within primary
city central business district of urbanized area over 500,000)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C      D      E
2     --  --  13,300 17,200 18,300
3     --  --  20,400 26,200 27,700
4     --  --  27,600 35,200 37,100
 
TWO-WAY COLLECTORS AND LOCAL STREETS
(signalized intersection analysis)
 
Lanes Level of Service
      A** B** C      D      E
2     --  --  7,700  11,600 12,900
6     --  --  16,200 24,300 26,400
6     --  --  24,900 37,200 40,100
 
*The table does not constitute a standard and should be used only for general
planning applications. The computer models from which this table is derived
should be used for more specific planning applications. The table and deriving
computer models should not be used for corridor or intersection design, where
more refined techniques exist. Values shown are average daily traffic maximum
volumes (based on peak hour volumes) for levels of service and are based on the
1985 Highway Capacity Manual and Florida traffic data. Roadways with more than
the number of lanes shown should be treated on a case by case basis. The
table's input value assumptions and level of service criteria appear on the
back.
**Cannot be achieved.
Source: Florida Department of Transportation, 1988.
   (G)   Trip generation. This city currently recognizes the Institute of
Transportation Engineers Trip Generation Manual (ITE), 1979, and Trip Ends
Generation Research, FDOT Annual Reports, for purposes of projecting traffic
impacts of land development requests. Applicants who wish to provide additional
traffic projections based on more complete, more current or otherwise superior
analysis may do so. For uses not included in the ITE or FDOT documents, the
applicant will provide the city with projections. All projections submitted
that differ from the ITE or FDOT data will be used at the discretion of the
city. Applicants are also advised that trip rates are regularly updated by ITE
and FDOT. Use of the most current rates is highly recommended.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
§ 3. MICRO ELEMENTS.
   Information provided in the Micro Elements section addresses specific issues
related to the design of roadways, driveways, alleys, cross-access easements,
and the like. It differs in approach from the Macro Elements section in that it
does not provide the same flexibility in interpretation. The elements are
specific in nature and can only be modified by city approval of a variance
request.
   (A)   Streets, drives, and parking. Design details regarding the roadway
elements of a site development have been compiled and documented in Appendix A
and Appendix B of the city land development code. Reproduction of these
regulations are made a part of this document in Appendix A. They will serve as
the principal guidelines for street, driveway, cross-access easement, and
parking design. As the need arises, the guidelines can be expanded to include
new requirements through modification of this document or the land development
code.
   (B)   Lake Mary Boulevard guidelines. Lake Mary Boulevard functions as the
major arterial serving this city and the surrounding area by providing direct
connections to Interstate 4 and US 17/92. Though the roadway is classified as
an arterial and serves this function, it does not presently meet the design
standards required to provide the Level of Service of an arterial. Upgrading
this roadway is programmed into Seminole County's Transportation Management
Plan and will become an active project in the near future. The city, through
the adoption of the land development code, the updated land use plan, and the
transportation guidelines, has established guidelines for developers and city
staff to use in evaluating planned improvements along Lake Mary Boulevard.
Reference is also made to Section V and Appendix B of the Transportation
Guidelines regarding the recommendations of the Lake Mary Boulevard Corridor
Study. The recommendations of the study are a part of these guidelines and will
also be used by developers and city staff in evaluating planned improvements
along Lake Mary Boulevard.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
CHAPTER 156: SITE PLAN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose and intent
   
156.02   Applicability
   
156.03   Definitions
Procedures for Securing Approval of Site Plans
   
156.11   Pre-application conference
   
156.12   Application procedure
   
156.13   Review procedure
   
156.14   Fees
   
156.15   Site plan revisions
   
156.16   Time limit on approval
Required Submittals
   
156.20   Qualification of engineer
   
156.21   Required submittals for site plan application
   
156.22   Additional submittals for facilities dedicated to the public
   
Appendix A:   Program for site development review (transportation)
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement of requirements, see §
154.07
   General provisions applying throughout land development code, see §§
154.01 through
154.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The public health, safety, comfort, and welfare require that the
development of land be conducted in a harmonious, orderly, and progressive
fashion within the corporate limits of the city. Once land has been developed,
the correction of defects is costly and difficult. Substantial public
responsibility is created by each new development, involving the maintenance of
streets and drainage facilities, and the provision of additional public
services. As the general welfare, health, safety, and convenience of the
community are thereby directly affected by the use of land, it is in the direct
interest of the public that developments be conceived, designed, and developed
in accordance with sound rules and proper minimum standards. Consideration
shall be given to the character of an area and the availability of public
facilities to ensure the compatibility and coordination of land uses and
facilities within a given geographic unit.
   (B)   The purpose and intent, therefore, of this chapter is to ensure that
the following objectives shall be attained:
      (1)   To assure that the planned project is in conformity with the goals
and objectives of the city's comprehensive plan;
      (2)   To assure that the planned project is compatible with the
surrounding area and that it will serve to enhance the general character of
that area and the city;
      (3)   To assure that adequate provisions are made for vehicular traffic
access, ingress, egress, internal circulation and parking, traffic control,
pedestrian movement and safety, emergency vehicle access, and trailered
equipment storage;
      (4)   To assure that adequate screening and buffering will be provided
between the planned project and contiguous properties;
      (5)   To assure that adequate provisions are planned for utilities,
drainage, pollution control, and all public services, including garbage/refuse
collection, delivery service, postal service, maintenance service, school bus
loading and unloading, utility and exterior lighting, and other services
necessary to the maintenance of the health and welfare of the residents of the
project;
      (6)   To assure that adequate provisions have been made for light, air,
access, and privacy in the arrangement of buildings as they relate to other
improvements, to public roads/streets, to internal roads, to parking areas, to
recreation areas, to sidewalks, and to contiguous properties;
      (7)   To assure that the natural qualities and characteristics of the
land will be preserved, and that the project site will be appropriately
landscaped and provisions established for the maintenance of the same;
      (8)   To assure that adequate recreation space will be provided within
the planned project and that provisions are made for the supervision and
maintenance thereof;
      (9)   To assure that the aesthetic and architectural details of the
planned project are compatible with the surrounding area and serve to enhance
the character of that area;
      (10)   To assure the installation to prescribed standards by the land
developer of those required improvements which ought not become a charge on the
citizens and taxpayers of already existing areas;
      (11)   To assure the prevention of haphazard, premature, or scattered
land development;
      (12)   To assure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, and to
promote health and the general welfare;
      (13)   To assure protection from flooding hazards and ensure proper water
management; and
      (14)   To assure the protection of the natural and scenic resources of
the city, including surface waters and groundwater recharge areas.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 156.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The procedures contained in this chapter are applicable to all projects
which involve the construction of any facility other than single-family
dwellings or minor appurtenances thereto (for example, a private swimming pool,
yard fence, and the like); or three or less duplex units in a subdivision where
a certificate of completion for the subdivision has been issued by the city.
Included are projects involving land developments (other than subdivisions)
without structures such as parking lots. Also included are projects which
involve the alteration or conversion of existing structures or the change of
use of a structure where the site or structure does not meet the current
criteria of these regulations. Changes in use shall be evaluated by the city as
to the need for a complete site plan review, and possible modifications, based
on the nature of the change in use or occupancy, and the need for compliance
with current regulations. Any developments permitted under a conditional use
must additionally undergo the site plan approval process. The provisions of
this chapter, where appropriate, are to be applied to both on-site and off-site
development. This document shall be the governing document for such
development. Where there are conflicts and discrepancies with other city
policies, ordinances, or regulations, the more restrictive requirements shall
govern.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 651, passed 7-1-93)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
Editor' s note:
   The definitions contained in §
154.09 are also applicable to this chapter.
PROCEDURES FOR SECURING APPROVAL OF SITE PLANS
§ 156.11 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   The applicant is encouraged to confer with the city staff and the City
Engineer prior to formally submitting a request for approval of a site plan.
The purpose of these meetings are to aid in complying with the guidelines of
the site plan review.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 156.12 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   An approved site plan is required prior to the issuance of any permits. It
shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, or alter a building or
structure, or to develop, change, or improve land for which a site plan is
required, except in accordance with an approved site plan.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 651, passed 7-1-93)
§ 156.13 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A pre-application conference with the city staff is encouraged to aid
in compliance with the guidelines of site plan review.
   (B)   Ten copies (or the number as determined to be adequate by the City
Planner) of the application and all required submittals shall be submitted to
the City Planner. Application fees for site plan review and other technical
review fees as determined by the city must be paid to the city at the time that
the application is submitted.
   (C)   All site plans will be reviewed to determine that the site plan
application is complete. The applicant or his designee may meet with the city
staff in their review of the site plan application and submittals. The city
staff shall inform the applicant, in writing, of the final review comments
which were received.
   (D)   The city staff may request that the applicant revise the site plan
application and submittals and/or may request the provision of additional
information by the applicant in order to ensure compliance with all applicable
site plan regulations. The applicant shall be responsible for making any and
all site plan revisions and for providing any additional information requested.
Once the city staff has determined that the cite plan application shall be
placed on the agenda of the Planning and Zoning Board for action.
      (1)   Based upon the information provided by applicant and the
recommendations of the staff, the Planning and Zoning Board shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the site plan.
         (a)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any
decision of the Planning and Zoning Board, may, within 30 days after the filing
of any decision, but not thereafter, apply to the City Commission for relief.
         (b)   An appeal to the City Commission shall stop all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed. The City Commission shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of the appeal; give public notice thereof; as well as due
notice to the parties in interest; and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Upon the hearing any party may appeal.
      (2)   Building permit process. No building permit shall be issued by the
city until the site plan has been finally approved by the Planning and Zoning
Board. No work of any nature shall commence on the property until a building
permit has been issued, without the approval of the City Commission.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 598, passed 4-16-92; Am. Ord. 651, passed
7-1-93)
§ 156.14 FEES.
   Application fees for site plan review, as adopted from time to time by
resolutions of the City Commission, must be paid to the city at the time the
submittals are made.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 156.15 SITE PLAN REVISIONS.
   Changes to the approved site plan shall be accomplished according to the
approval procedures in §§ 156.10 through
156.16.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85)
§ 156.16 TIME LIMIT ON APPROVAL.
   (A)   Following approval of the site plan, the applicant shall have one
year, unless otherwise specified in the appropriate zoning district
regulations, to commence construction on the site. Where actual construction
has not begun within one year, or where substantial progress has not been made
during any six-month period following commencement of construction, the site
plan shall be re-evaluated by the appropriate bodies.
   (B)   An extension of one year shall be granted on request of the applicant
where conditions have not changed during the first year so as to affect the
public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (C)   Any extension of site plan approval granted pursuant to the provisions
of division (B) of this section shall be specifically subject to and
conditioned upon compliance by the applicant with any intervening amendments,
between the date of original site plan approval and the date of application for
extension, to
Chapter 155 Appendix B (off-street parking, loading and unloading),
Appendix C (stormwater management regulations) and
Appendix I (sign regulations) and
Chapter 157 (landscape and buffer regulations).
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 413, passed 1-19-89)
REQUIRED SUBMITTALS
§ 156.20 QUALIFICATION OF ENGINEER.
   Site plans or any portion thereof involving engineering shall be certified
and prepared by, or under the direct supervision of, a professional engineer,
qualified by training and experience in the specific technical field involved
and registered or licensed to practice that profession in the State of Florida.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 651, passed 7-1-93)
§ 156.21 REQUIRED SUBMITTALS FOR SITE PLAN APPLICATION.
   Review of the submittals shall not begin, nor will the application be placed
on the Planning and Zoning Board agenda, until the application has been
determined to be complete by the City Engineer. The following information shall
be submitted unless waived by the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (A)   General development and proposed improvements.
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   Name of project.
         (b)   Statement of intended use of site.
         (c)   Legal description of the property, and size of parcel in acres
or square feet.
         (d)   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or owners of
record.
         (e)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and firm
which he represents.
         (f)   Name, address, signature, and registration of the professionals
preparing the plan.
         (g)    Date, north arrow and scale, number of sheets; the scale (not
smaller than one inch to 50 feet) shall be designated, and, where appropriate,
the same scale should be used in drawing the site plan rather than varying the
scale.
         (h)   Vicinity map, showing the relationship of the proposed
development to the surrounding streets and thoroughfares; shall be at a scale
of not less than one inch equals 2,000 feet.
         (i)   Linear dimensions of the site and proposed buildings.
         (j) Existing topography with a minimum of one foot contour intervals
for the proposed site. All elevations shall be referenced to North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
         (k)   Finished grading elevation.
         (l)   All existing and proposed building restriction lines (such as,
highway setback lines, easements, covenants, rights- of-way, and building
setback lines, even if more restrictive than those specified by the zoning
regulations).
         (m)   Any formal commitments, including, but not limited to,
contributions to offset public facilities impacts.
      (2)   Buildings and structural information.
         (a)   Intended use.
         (b)   Number of stories.
         (c)   Height of buildings.
         (d)   Number of dwelling units, and density for multi-family site
plans.
         (e)   Projected number of employees and number of company vehicles
kept at site.
         (f)   For restaurants, entertainment, or similar establishments, show
number of seats and occupancy load.
         (g)   Square footage for proposed development: gross square footage,
non-storage area, square footage of each story, gross square footage of sales
area, and the like.
         (h)   Photograph or sketch of proposed signs.
         (i)   Type of construction.
      (3)   Streets, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, and loading spaces
information.
         (a)   Engineering plans and specifications for streets, sidewalks,
parking areas, and driveways.
         (b)   All parking spaces designated.
         (c)   Number of parking spaces.
         (d)   Number and location of handicapped spaces.
         (e)   Number and designation of loading spaces.
         (f)   Number of square feet of paved parking and driveway area.
         (g)   Surface materials of driveways.
         (h)   Cross section of proposed street improvements.
         (i)   Fire lanes.
         (j)   Location of proposed driveways and median cuts.
         (k)   Internal traffic circulation plan, including directional arrows
and signs to direct traffic flow.
         (l)   Location of traffic-control signs and signal devices.
         (m)   Designated location of sidewalks.
         (n)   Coordinate walkways, driveways, and the like with facilities in
adjacent developments.
         (o)   All proposed streets and alleys.
         (p)   The extension or construction of service roads and access
thereto on-site must be shown where applicable.
      (4)   Traffic impact analysis data.
         (a)   Requirements. The developer shall prepare, or have prepared, by
a qualified traffic engineer, a traffic impact analysis, unless determined by
the city that the proposed development will not have a traffic impact which
justifies such an analysis. Refer to the city transportation guidelines for
more specific direction.
         (b)   Data. The analysis of traffic impacts will provide the following
findings, and appropriate methodologies utilized in determining the findings:
            1.   Total projected average weekday trip ends for the site in
question.
            2.   Design capacity of the accessed roads.
            3.   Average projected peak- hour (including time of day) trip
projections for the site in question.
            4.   Analysis of projected on- and off-site traffic patterns, such
as turning movements.
            5.   Projected percentage of truck traffic.
            6.   Recommended improvements made necessary by the development.
            7.   Other related information as required by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Drainage. Engineering plans and specifications, in accordance with
Appendix C to Chapter 155, for the collection and treatment of storm drainage,
including a description of the preservation of any natural features, such as
lakes and streams, or other natural features.
      (6)   Dredge and fill. If any dredging or filling operation is intended
in the development of the area, the developer's engineer shall consult with the
City Engineer to ensure conformity with dredge and fill requirements.
      (7)   Soils. A soil classification map as an overlay for comparison with
proposed development activities shall be provided, and will indicate soil
classifications on the site plan as identified by the United States Department
of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service in the Seminole County Soil Survey"
and "Soil Survey Supplement." An applicant may challenge this designation by
securing competent expert evaluation, at the applicant's own expense,
demonstrating that the identified soils are not classified correctly. If that
determination is concurred in by the city, the soils shall be correctly
identified for the purpose of this chapter. A soil analysis by a qualified soil
engineer shall be furnished upon request of the city.
      (8)   Erosion control. Provisions for the adequate control of erosion and
sediment, indicating the location and description of the methods to be utilized
during and after all phases of clearing, grading, and construction.
      (9)   Limits of flood plain. Indicate the flood elevation for the 100-
year flood on the site plan as established by the National Flood Insurance
Program, Flood Insurance Rate Map. The actual acreage above and below the 100-
year flood elevation, plus that area below the antecedent water level, shall be
listed numerically. The jurisdictional wetland boundary as established by the
St. Johns River water Management District shall also be depicted on the site
plan.
      (10)   Proposed water and sewer facilities.
         (a)   Water. Size, material, and location of water mains, valves, and
fire hydrants, including engineering plans and specifications.
         (b)   Sanitary sewer systems. Size, material, inverts of manholes,
slopes of the sewer, and location of lines including engineering plans and
specifications, with submittal of a profile where required.
      (11)   Solid waste. Locations and access provisions for refuse service,
including pad, screening, fencing, and landscaping.
      (12)   Landscaping, arbor, recreation, and open space.
         (a)   Landscaping plan, irrigation system plan, and provision for
maintenance, including size, type, and location of all landscaping, screens,
walls, fences, and buffers.
         (b)   Tree survey indicating the location of all trees on site which
are a minimum of six inches in diameter measured approximately three feet above
the ground designating the trees to be retained, removed, relocated or
replaced. Smaller trees to be retained may also be shown by the applicant to
assist the Arbor Inspector in determining replacement requirements. Groups of
tress in close proximity may be designated as "clumps" of trees with the
estimated number and type of trees noted. Trees with a diameter of 24 inches
and greater shall be identified by type, height, diameter and canopy spread.
Trees to be removed, relocated or replaced must be named (common or botanical
name) on the plan.
         (c)   Application for arbor permit, if applicable.
         (d)   Recreation and open space areas, if applicable.
   (B)   Existing improvements (on-site, adjacent to site, and across or
opposite any public rights-of-way).
      (1)   Driveways and median cuts within 150 feet of the site in both
directions on both sides of street.
      (2)   Sidewalks, streets, alleys, and easements (note widths and type).
      (3)   Drainage systems to include natural and structural (size and
material, invert elevation).
      (4)   Size and location of nearest water mains, valves, and fire
hydrants.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer systems (size, invert elevation, and the like to be
included).
      (6)   Gas, power, and telephone lines, where applicable.
      (7)   Location of public potable water wells within 1000 feet of the
site.
   (C)   Additional information. Any additional data, maps, plans, or
statements, including a certificate of capacity for public facilities, as may
be required, and which are commensurate with the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 553, passed 8-1-91; Am. Ord. 651, passed
7-1-93; Am. Ord. 1464, passed 5-17-12)
§ 156.22 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTALS FOR FACILITIES DEDICATED TO THE PUBLIC.
   The approval of the site plan shall, where facilities are dedicated to the
city, be made only pursuant to certification of adequacy of the following list
of required submittals by the City Engineer or City Attorney, as appropriate.
   (A)   Bonds.
      (1)   The approval of any site plan shall be subject to the applicant
guaranteeing the installation and maintenance of the required improvements,
where these facilities are to be conveyed or dedicated to the city, by filing a
performance bond or bonds executed by an approved surety company authorized to
do business in the State of Florida in the amount of 110% of the construction
costs. Costs for construction shall be estimated by the applicant’s engineer,
and a copy of the contracts may be requested by the city. The amounts of the
performance and maintenance bond must be approved as adequate by the City
Engineer. In lieu of performance bonding, improvements may be installed
following site plan approval and preceding the issuance of the building permit,
subject to the approval of the City Engineer. In all cases where public
improvements are installed prior to issuance of the building permit, a
maintenance bond must be submitted to and accepted by the city. A completed
maintenance bond form shall be submitted when utilizing a cashier’s check or
certified check as the form of guaranty in lieu of surety. A certificate of
occupancy cannot be issued until the maintenance bond is approved and accepted
by the city.
      (2)   Bond requirements may be met by the following, but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Escrow deposit, cashier’s check or certified check.
         (b)   Irrevocable letters of credit (subject to the approval of the
Finance Director) may be substituted for a performance bond.
   (B)   Title certificate. A certificate of ownership signed by a licensed
attorney-at- law or a title company licensed to do business in the state shall
be required when property is conveyed to the city, in a form approved by the
City Attorney, and showing:
      (1)   Parties executing site plan are owners of the land embraced by the
site.
      (2)   All mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances are released.
      (3)   That all taxes and assessments are paid to date.
      (4)   Description of site is correct.
      (5) No conflicting rights-of-way, easements, or site plans exist.
(Ord. 241, passed 11-27-85; Am. Ord. 651, passed 7-1-93; Am. Ord. 1642, passed
6-17-22)
APPENDIX A: PROGRAM FOR SITE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW (TRANSPORTATION)
Section
   
1.   General
   
2.   Coordination
   
3.   Thresholds
§ 1. GENERAL.
   (A)   Transportation in general terms is a service which provides access
from one location to another by which people conduct the activities of their
daily lives. These activities are wide, ranging from the normal work trips to
shopping trips, to the trip made for social purposes.
   (B)   In order to adequately consider these needs, safety, comfort and cost
must be taken into account in maximizing the ability of the transportation
system to provide the required connections between related activities.
   (C)   It is through the site development review process that the
transportation issues mentioned are addressed. Site access, site impact on the
surrounding transportation network, and the resulting modification to the
immediate transportation system, if necessary, to ensure safe and acceptable
operating conditions are all examined during this process.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
§ 2. COORDINATION.
   (A)   Figure 3-1 shows the process through which an individual project is
reviewed. Figure 3-2 shows how the city's process is incorporated into the
review of larger projects qualifying as Developments of Regional Impact (DRI).
      (1)   Basically, the coordination procedure would follow the same pattern
for both DRI and non-DRI sized projects. The initial step of the person wishing
to develop in this city would be that of notifying the City Manager's office.
From this point, a pre-application meeting should be arranged.
      (2)   At the pre-application conference, the city's site plan development
review guidelines and the city's staff concerns should be reviewed. This step
in the process should be as specific as possible to avoid redundancy in later
phases of the review. Once all interested parties have concurred upon the
transportation concerns, the project is ready to go through the final review
process. It should be noted that it may take more than one meeting to resolve
the issues arising from the preapplication conference.
      (3)   The formal review process should be expedited, depending on the
treatment of potential issues, at the staff level, during the pre-application
process.
   (B)   The normal site plan review process would then commence following
these steps:
      (1)   Submission of the site plan for final review (minimum of 45 days
prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Board meeting).
      (2)   In depth review by city staff.
      (3)   City Engineer makes findings available to Planning and Zoning
Board.
      (4)   Planning and Zoning Board reports findings and recommendations.
         (a)   If revisions are required, 60 days are allowed for resubmission;
however, at least 14 days must remain before the next Planning and Zoning Board
meeting for the resubmission to appear on the agenda.
         (b)   If no revisions are required, the site plan moves to the next
step.
      (5)   The Planning and Zoning Board makes its final findings and
recommendations.
      (6)   The City Commission approves, approves with conditions, or denies
the site plan.
      (7)   For projects that are approved, or approved with conditions, the
building permit process begins.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
§ 3. THRESHOLDS.
   During the city staff's review of site plans for transportation impacts,
certain thresholds (or benchmarks) will be used to determine if the project
will adversely effect the transportation system within its area of influence.
   A format similar to that now being used by the East Central Florida Regional
Planning Council (ECFRPC) has been incorporated into these guidelines to
evaluate the transportation impacts of a project in this city. Based on the
ECFRPC standards, the following is offered: These standards related to
recommendations that may be specified by this city concerning transportation
impacts in site plan development applications. These standards relate to the
analysis of significant transportation impacts.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these standards shall be to provide the city
developers submitting applications for site plan development a clear procedure
for analyzing significant transportation impacts.
   (B)   Objective. The objective of the city is to protect the taxpayer
investment and the integrity of the road system and to prevent a condition that
would cause the system to cease to function at a satisfactory service level as
a consequence of a single large project, or along one corridor, a series of
smaller projects.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)    LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS). LOS is the ability of a roadway to carry
traffic based upon:
- Speed and travel time
- Travel interruptions or restrictions
- Freedom to maneuver
- Safety
- Driving comfort and convenience
- Economy
         (a)    LEVEL OF SERVICE A. A condition of free flow, accompanied by
low volumes and high speeds. Traffic density will be low, with uninterrupted
flow speeds controlled by drive desires, speed limits, and physical roadway
conditions. There is little or no restriction in maneuverability due to the
presence of other vehicles, and drivers can maintain their desired speeds with
little or no delay.
         (b)    LEVEL OF SERVICE B. In the zone of stable flow, with operating
speeds beginning to be restricted somewhat by traffic conditions. Drivers still
have reasonable freedom to select their speed and lane of operation. Reduction
in speed is not unreasonable, with a low probability of traffic flow being
restricted. The low limit (lowest speed, highest volume) of this level of
service has been associated with service volumes used in the design of rural
highways.
         (c)    LEVEL OF SERVICE C. In the zone of stable flow, but speeds and
maneuverability are closely controlled by high volumes. Most drivers are
restricted in their freedom to select their own speed, change lanes or pass. A
relatively satisfactory operating speed is still obtained, with service volumes
perhaps suitable for urban design practice.
         (d)    LEVEL OF SERVICE D. Approaches unstable flow, with tolerable
operating speeds being maintained though considerably affected by change in
operating conditions. Fluctuations in volume and temporary restrictions to flow
may cause substantial drops in operating speeds. Drivers have little freedom to
maneuver, and comfort and convenience are low, but conditions can be tolerated
for short periods of time.
         (e)    LEVEL OF SERVICE E. Cannot be described by speed alone, but
represents operations at even lower operating speeds than in Level D, with
volumes at or near the capacity of the highway. At capacity speeds are
typically, but not always, in the neighborhood of 30 m.p.h. Flow is unstable,
and there may be stoppages of momentary duration.
         (f)    LEVEL OF SERVICE F. Describes forced flow operation at low
speeds, where volumes are above capacity. These conditions usually result from
queues of vehicles backing up from a restriction downstream. The section under
study will be serving as a storage area during parts or all of the peak hour.
Speeds are reduced substantially and stoppages may occur for short or long
periods of time because of the downstream congestion. In the extreme, both
speed and volume can drop to zero.
      (2)    BACKGROUND TRAFFIC. Consists of: existing traffic; growth in
ambient/ background traffic; and other major developments either planned or
currently under way.
      (3)    PROJECT TRAFFIC. Includes existing and new traffic generated by
the specific project under review.
      (4)    TOTAL TRAFFIC. Includes background traffic and project traffic.
      (5)    LINK. The roadway between two intersections.
      (6)    INTERSECTION. The junction of two or more roadways.
      (7)    SIGNIFICANCE. A comparative test of the effect of a project's
traffic to the facility's capacity at LOC "C".
      (8)    ADVERSITY. A comparative test of the total traffic projected in a
project for a roadway link or intersection to the appropriate service volume
for analysis.
      (9)    AVERAGE ANNUAL DAILY TRAFFIC (AADT). Represents the average of
quarterly traffic counts performed throughout the year.
      (10)    PEAK HOUR TRAFFIC. Represents the portion of daily traffic which
utilizes the roadway during times of peak travel.
      (11)    PRIMARY IMPACT AREA. That area established by the city staff as
representing the roadway system potentially receiving significant impacts by
the project.
      (12)    CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD). That portion of a highly
urbanized area where the predominant land use is intense business activity.
Characterized by high density development, large numbers of pedestrians,
commercial vehicles, loadings of goods and people, a large demand for parking
space, and a high degree of turnover in parking.
      (13)    FRINGE AREA. The portion of an urbanized area immediately outside
the CBD. Exhibits a wide range of business activities (small businesses, light
industry, warehousing, automobile service centers and intermediate strip
development, with some concentrated residential areas). Traffic in these areas
generally involves trips that do not have an origin or destination within the
area. There is less pedestrian traffic and lower parking turnover than in CBD.
However, large parking areas serving the CBD might be present.
      (14)    RESIDENTIAL AREA. An area within the urbanized area in which the
predominant land use is residential development (small businesses may be
present). Characterized by a few pedestrians and low parking turnover.
      (15)    OUTLYING BUSINESS DISTRICT. An area within the influence of an
urbanized area that is normally separated by some distance from the CBD and its
fringe area, but that has the intense activity characteristic of a central
area. The principal land use is business, and there may be heavy traffic or
through movements, causing vehicles to operate at lower speeds than in fringe
areas. Also characterized by large demand for parking and high turnover and
moderate pedestrian traffic. This category does not include off-street shopping
on one side of a street only. Moderate to heavy strip development on both sides
of a street shall be considered as outlying business district areas.
      (16)    RURAL. A sparsely developed area within the influence of an
urbanized area in which the predominant land use is other than those described
in the four preceding categories.
   (D)   Minimum level of service standards. Prior to determining significance
and adversity of a DRI's traffic to the roadway system, the city staff in
cooperation with the developer shall establish an acceptable LOS for the
primary impact area. The following guidelines shall be used to establish the
accepted level of service for peak hours based upon the type of roadway
condition as defined below:
 
Type of Roadway Condition Peak Hour LOS
CBD                       D
Arterial                  D
Collectors                D
Local road                C
 
The type of roadway condition determination shall be based upon existing
development patterns for the area under study.
   (E)   Definition of a significant roadway. A roadway shall be considered
SIGNIFICANT if it is:
      (1)   A state road;
      (2)   An intercounty road that is not a state road;
      (3)   A road that leads to a regional activity center; or
      (4)   A road linking two or more state roads and that carries a
significant amount of background and project traffic.
   (F)   Test for significance. Roadway facilities which meet the condition as
defined in (E) above shall be examined for significance of traffic impacts. If
the peak hour traffic generation of the Applicant's Development meets or exceed
10% of the capacity of service Level "C" for a particular facility, regardless
of the acceptable LOS as specified above, then an impact shall be considered
significant.
   (G)   Test for adversity. Roadway facilities which meet the Test for
Significance in (F) above shall be examined for adversity of the traffic
impacts. If the projected total (background and project) peak hour volume
exceeds the maximum service volume for the agreed-upon conditions, then a
regionally significant impact shall be considered adverse.
   (H)   Determination of mitigation improvements. If a project causes
significant and adverse traffic impacts, then economic commitments and/or
improvements shall be considered necessary to mitigate these impacts. An
evaluation shall be performed to determine how these significant and adverse
traffic impacts are to be met. The following principles shall apply in
formulating final recommendations relative to traffic impacts:
      (1)   Where service levels are below the permitted LOS for a particular
facility, and it is determined that a significant portion (as defined above) of
that traffic is attributable to the project, then the developer may not proceed
with the development unless mitigative measures/ improvements are identified
which would provide an acceptable service level at the peak hour or which would
result in the project's share of the traffic decreasing below 10% of the
Service Level "C" capacity as defined in (F) above, and funding commitments for
such measures/improvements are secured and committed to occur within the next
phase of development. However, before the final phase, the applicant must also
demonstrate that the construction of that phase will not adversely affect
service levels (as defined above), or demonstrate that the necessary
improvements to accommodate the final phase are funded and scheduled to occur
during the final phase. Otherwise, the final phase should not occur.
      (2)   If an adequate improvement is scheduled to occur in the most
currently adopted Capital Improvement Program/ Transportation Improvement
Program (CIP/TIP), then such improvement will be acceptable as a mitigative
procedure. Other written commitments by the developer that will be considered
by the city toward the mitigation of the project's impacts will include the
following:
         (a)   Developer-built roadway improvements;
         (b)   Voluntary impact fee contributions;
         (c)   Countywide/Citywide Municipal Service Taxing Unit (MSTU) or
impact fee ordinance;
         (d)   Transportation System Management (TSM) measures; and
         (e)   Interlocal agreements.
   If funds derived through impact fees, MSTU payments or interlocal agreements
are not sufficient to cover the cost of needed improvements as described in (H)
(1) above, or if those needed improvements are not completed in a timely
fashion as required in (H)(1) above, no waiver of the stated minimum LOS shall
be allowed.
   (I)   Monitoring guidelines. Monitoring of projected impacts may be
stipulated within the recommendations when any of the following conditions are
evidenced:
      (1)   If the project under construction consists of a development program
exceeding ten years in duration.
      (2)   If the area surrounding the proposed project is experiencing rapid
development.
      (3)   If basic assumptions change due to the addition or deletion of
roadways contrary to those presumed in the study.
      (4)   If service levels in the area are inadequate on existing roadways
and no major improvements are anticipated.
   (J)   Alternate methods of evaluation. The city reserves the option to
evaluate mitigation measures necessitated by project impacts utilizing
recommendations other than those described above. The itemizing of specific
improvements that in the judgment of the city would adequately ameliorate
project impacts, may be recommended as an alternative to the LOS
recommendations set forth in division (H)(1) and (H)(2) above.
   (K)   Costs of review of traffic impact analysis and review of mitigation
measures. Any applicant whose application shall include a traffic impact
analysis and presentation of mitigation measures as a part of the review and
approval process shall pay such costs as the city shall incur or the review of
the applicant's traffic impact analysis and if required, review of the
applicant's proposed mitigation measures. Costs shall include but not be
limited to the actual costs to the city for services of outside consultants
including but not limited to professional engineers, traffic engineers, urban
planners and the actual costs by time of city staff and/or contract employees
utilized in the actual review.
(Res. 343, passed 12-21-89)
CHAPTER 157: LANDSCAPING AND ARBOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   General landscaping requirements
   
157.04   Buffer standards and requirements
   
157.05   Parking lot requirements
   
157.06   Additional landscaping and screening requirements
   
157.07   Planting standards and requirements
   
157.08   Maintenance
   
157.09   Violations of §§ 157.03 - 157.08; inspections
   
157.10   Variance from §§ 157.04 - 157.07
   
157.11   Arbor regulations; scope
   
157.12   Arbor permit required
   
157.13   Submittal requirements
   
157.14   Requirement for removal
   
157.15   Violations of this chapter
   
157.16   Minimum tree standards
   
157.17   Tree replacement
   
157.18   Appeals procedure
   
157.19   Administrative variances
   
157.20   Violation; denial of permits and certificates
   
157.21   Tree preservation during development and construction
   
157.22   Regulations pertaining to utility companies
   
157.23   Pruning
   
157.24   Injuring shade trees
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   Requirements are set forth in this chapter for the provision of landscaped
areas and buffers between certain land uses and in paved parking areas, to
preserve the value of land and buildings on surrounding properties and
neighborhoods; to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as noise,
lights, signs, dirt, litter, unsightly buildings, or parking areas; and to
encourage the proliferation, preservation, and protection of trees and
vegetation. Buffers provide spacing to reduce potentially adverse impacts of
noise, odor, or danger from fires or explosions, and landscaping and
preservation of existing trees and vegetation can aid in erosion prevention,
oxygen production, beautification, and aesthetic enhancement of improved and
vacant land.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ARBOR PERMIT.” A valid permit issued by the appropriate authority under the
provisions of the city arbor regulations. (See §§
157.11  through
157.24 .)
   “BUILDABLE AREA.” That portion of a site within the yard on which a
structure or improvements, including driveways and parking lots, may be
erected.
   “CALIPER.” The diameter of a tree trunk measured at one foot above grade
(above the base of the tree).
   “CITY MANAGER.” The Manager for the City of Lake Mary, or his/her designee,
or anyone acting under his/her direction and approval.
   “DEVELOPED.” That point in time when the building and site have received
final inspections and certificates of occupancy issued.
   “DRIP LINE.” The vertical line running through the outermost portion of the
tree crown extending to the ground.
   “HISTORIC TREES.” Any live oak which has a caliper of 24 inches or greater;
any red cedar which has a caliper of 12 inches or greater; any long leaf pine
or magnolia tree which has a caliper of 20 inches or greater.
   “IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.” Land area covered by a surface treatment with hinders
the ability of the underlying soils to percolate water.
   “PRUNING PERMIT.” A valid permit issued by the appropriate authority under
the provisions of the city arbor regulations. (See §
157.23 .)
   “REPLACEMENT STOCK (TREE).” Any immature tree, other than palm trees, with a
minimum trunk diameter of three and one-half inches measured one foot above
grade and having a height of at least 15 feet. (See §
157.17 .)
   “SINGLE-FAMILY LOT.” An area of land not larger than five acres in size,
developed for and restricted to, a single-family residence.
   “TREE.” Any living self-supporting perennial plant which has a trunk
diameter of at least six inches measured one foot above grade (at the base of
the tree) and normally grows to a minimum overall height of 15 feet.
   “TREE PLANTED FOR HARVEST.” All trees which have been planted, or shall be
planted, with the bona fide intention at the time of said planting to
commercially harvest said trees, in the future. These trees shall include, by
way of illustration and not limitation, Christmas trees, slash pines, and
pulpwood.
   “YARD AREA.” An open space on the same lot with a building, said space being
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, with the exception of trees
and other natural vegetation.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.03 GENERAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The landscape requirements contained herein shall apply to all new
development within the city.
      (1)   No additions or improvements may be made on existing developments
unless the development conforms to the regulations contained herein.
      (2)   In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter and to allow for
necessary recharge, no more than 65% of any site area (land above the mean-
high-water line) shall be covered with an impervious surface. The remaining
site area shall be devoted to stormwater retention, easements, green areas, and
the specific landscaping requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   A landscape and irrigation plan shall be submitted at the time of
application for final site plan, preliminary subdivision, final subdivision,
and final PUD plan. Landscaping plans, irrigation plans, or any portion thereof
shall be certified by, or under the direct supervision of a professional
landscape architect qualified by experience and training in the specific field
involved and registered or licensed to practice that profession in the state.
Landscaping for single-family lots is exempt from this requirement. This plan
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The location and size of all landscaped areas;
      (2)   The location, size, and type of all trees and landscaping
materials;
      (3)   The location, type, and size of all existing vegetation to be
preserved;
      (4)   Applications for arbor permits when applicable;
      (5)   Layout and design of irrigation system; and
      (6)   The persons, corporation, or agent responsible for continued
maintenance of landscaped areas.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.04 BUFFER STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Location and design. Buffers shall be provided on the outer perimeter
of a lot or parcel, in accordance with the requirements and standards contained
herein. Buffers shall not be located on any portion of any existing, dedicated,
or reserved public or private street or right-of-way. The buffer is calculated
as parallel to the property line. Design variations are allowed, however, if
the average width of the buffer conforms to the standards listed in division
(F) of this section. Where a required drainage, utility, or other easement is
partially or wholly within a required buffer, the developer shall design the
buffer to eliminate or minimize plantings within the required easement.
Understory trees may be substituted for canopy trees if the buffer is located
under existing power lines or if the canopy trees would be planted within 15
feet of overhead utility lines. Three understory trees shall be required for
every one canopy tree to be substituted.
   (B)   Use of buffers.
      (1)   A buffer may be used for some forms of passive recreation; it may
contain pedestrian, bike, or equestrian trails, provided that:
         (a)   No plant material is eliminated.
         (b)   The total width of the buffer is maintained.
         (c)   All other regulations of this chapter are met.
         (d)   Should the required buffer area contain any paved walkway or
path, then the minimum average buffer width shall be increased by the width of
the included paved portion.
      (2)   In no event, however, shall the following uses be allowed in buffer
areas:
         (a)   Playfields.
         (b)   Stables.
         (c)   Swimming pools.
         (d)   Tennis courts.
         (e)   Other active recreation.
      (3)   Buffers adjacent to public rights-of-way may not include stormwater
retention/detention facilities and/or septic tanks/drainfields. The design high
water elevation of a stormwater retention/detention facility shall be no closer
than five feet to a side property line unless the retention/detention facility
is shared by adjoining nonresidential uses. The design high water elevation of
a retention/detention facility shall be no closer than 25 feet to an abutting
residential property line. Exfiltration facilities shall also meet the above
described setbacks. At no such time shall retention in the buffers relieve the
applicant of meeting the minimum landscaping requirements. If a retention/
detention facility encroaches in a landscape buffer, the required landscaping
must be maintained around the perimeter of the pond with the majority of the
plantings placed near the property line.
   (C)   Required buffer widths. Requirements for buffers are based on the
intensity of the proposed development or use, and the use which is developed or
designated on all adjacent properties. In order to determine the type of buffer
required for a proposed use, the following procedure shall apply:
      (1)   Identify the zoning classification of the site and all adjacent
properties.
      (2)   Refer to divisions (D) and (E) of this section for the buffer type
required on each boundary.
   (D)   Contiguous zoning classification. Buffer types required for boundaries
that are contiguous are set forth in Table 1, below (i.e., not separated by
streets or right-of-way).
   TABLE 1
                            Abutting Zoning District
                            A-1
Development Zoning District RCE    R-2        C-1 M-1A
                            R-1AAA R-M R-3 PO C-2 M-2A
                            R-1AA
                            R-1A
                            Abutting Zoning District
                            A-1
Development Zoning District RCE    R-2         C-1 M-1A
                            R-1AAA R-M R-3 PO  C-2 M-2A
                            R-1AA
                            R-1A
R-2, RM                     B      A   A   B   B   C
R-3                         B      A   A   (a) B   C
PO                          B      B   (a) A   A   A
C-1                         C      C   B   A   A   A
C-2                         D      C   C   A   A   A
M-1A                        D      D   C   A   A   A
M-1A                        D      D   D   A   A   A
 
   (E)   Adjacent zoning classification separated by street or right-of-way.
Buffer types required for boundaries that are adjacent, but separated by a
local, collector, or arterial street or right-of-way, interstate highway, or
railroad right-of-way are set forth in Table 2 below.
   TABLE 2
                            Abutting Zoning District Separated by Right-of-Way*
                            **
                            A-1
Development Zoning District RCE    R-2        C-1 M-1A
                            R-1AAA R-M R-3 PO C-2 M-2A
                            R-1AA
                            R-1A
                            Abutting Zoning District Separated by Right-of-Way*
                            **
                            A-1
Development Zoning District RCE    R-2         C-1 M-1A
                            R-1AAA R-M R-3 PO  C-2 M-2A
                            R-1AA
                            R-1A
R-2, RM                     (b)    (a) (a) (a) (b) (b)
R-3                         (b)    (b) (a) (a) (b) (b)
PO                          (b)    (b) (a) (a) (a) (a)
C-1                         (c)    (b) (b) (a) (a) (a)
C-2                         (d)    (c) (b) (a) (a) (a)
M-1A                        (d)    (c) (b) (a) (a) (a)
M-1A                        (d)    (d) (d) (a) (a) (a)
*SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
   1)   Properties abutting Lake Mary Boulevard must comply with §
158.06.
   2)   Properties abutting Seminole Ave. shall provide a six-foot tall brick
wall, or permacast wall with brick finish, along the landscape buffer adjacent
to Seminole Ave.
   3)   See Subsection (F) for railroad ROW requirements.
 
   (F)   Buffer type description.
      (1)   Buffer type A.
         (a)   Minimum average width, ten feet. M-1A and M-2A zones may be five
feet.
         (b)   Required materials.
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter:
               a.   Two canopy trees.
               b.    Three understory trees.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen: A hedge or other durable screen at least two feet in
height immediately upon planting shall be provided within the buffer area
except in M-1A and M-2A zones where a hedge shall not be required.
      (2)   Buffer type B.
         (a)   Minimum average width, 35 feet.
         (b)   Required materials.
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plans shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter.
               a.    Five canopy trees.
               b.    Seven understory trees.
               c.    Twenty-five shrubs.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen: A six-foot tall brick wall shall be provided on the
development side of the buffer. A permacast wall may be utilized. Another
decorative finish may be substituted for brick. If a finish other than brick is
proposed, the applicant shall provide specific examples of the proposed finish
and a justification for the substitution. Stucco or raw concrete is not
permitted.
      (3)   Buffer type C.
         (a)   Minimum average width, 45 feet.
         (b)   Required materials.
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter.
               a.    Seven canopy trees.
               b.    Nine understory trees.
               c.    Thirty-five shrubs.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen: A six-foot tall brick wall shall be provided on the
development side of the buffer. A permacast wall may be utilized. Another
decorative finish may be substituted for brick. If a finish other than brick is
proposed, the applicant shall provide specific examples of the proposed finish
and a justification for the substitution. Stucco or raw concrete is not
permitted.
      (4)   Buffer type D.
         (a)   Minimum average width, 60 feet.
         (b)   Required materials:
            1.    Landscaping. For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements of §
157.07 of this chapter:
               a.    Nine canopy trees.
               b.    Eleven understory trees.
               c.    Forty-five shrubs.
            2.   Screen. A six-foot tall brick wall shall be provided on the
development side of the buffer. A permacast wall may be utilized. Another
decorative finish may be substituted for brick. If a finish other than brick is
proposed, the applicant shall provide specific examples of the proposed finish
and a justification for the substitution. Stucco or raw concrete is not
permitted.
      (5)   Buffer type (a).
         (a)   Minimum average width, 15 feet.
         (b)   Required materials.
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter.
               a.    Three canopy trees.
               b.    Four shrubs understory trees.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen. A hedge or other durable screen at least two feet in
height immediately upon planting. If adjacent to railroad right-of-way, a six-
foot tall brick wall, permacast wall with brick or decorative finish shall be
provided. A six-foot tall decorative or PVC fence may be utilized in lieu of a
wall, however shrubs a minimum of 4-foot tall upon planting shall be provided
for additional safety.
      (6)   Buffer type (b).
         (a)   Minimum average width, 25 feet.
         (b)   Required materials.
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter:
               a.    Five canopy trees.
               b.    Seven understory trees.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen. A four-foot high brick, or permacast with brick
finish, wall shall be provided on the development side of the buffer. A three-
foot high berm with a hedge at least two feet in height at the time of planting
may also be used. If adjacent to railroad right-of-way, a six-foot tall brick
wall, permacast wall with brick or decorative finish shall be provided. A six-
foot tall decorative or PVC fence may be utilized in lieu of a wall, however
shrubs a minimum of 4-foot tall upon planting shall be provided for additional
safety.
      (7)   Buffer type (c).
         (a)   Minimum average width, 35 feet.
         (b)   Required materials:
            1.    Landscaping: For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be
provided in accordance with the planting standards and requirements, §
157.07 of this chapter:
               a.    Seven canopy trees.
               b.    Nine understory trees.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen. A six-foot tall brick, or permacast with brick finish,
wall shall be provided on the development side of the buffer. A three-foot high
berm with a hedge at least two feet in height at the time of planting may also
be used. If adjacent to railroad right-of-way, a six-foot tall brick wall,
permacast wall with brick or decorative finish shall be provided. A six-foot
tall decorative or PVC fence may be utilized in lieu of a wall, however shrubs
a minimum of 4-foot tall upon planting shall be provided for additional safety.
      (8)   Buffer type (d).
         (a)   Minimum average width, 45 feet.
         (b)   Required materials:
            1.    Landscaping. For each 100 linear feet, or fraction thereof,
of boundary, the following plants shall be provided in accordance with the
planting standards and requirements of §
157.07 of this chapter.
               a.    Nine canopy trees.
               b.    Eleven understory trees.
               c.    Twenty-five shrubs.
            2.   The remainder of the buffer area shall be landscaped with
grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment.
            3.   Screen. A six-foot tall brick, or permacast with brick finish,
wall shall be provided on the development side of the buffer. A three-foot high
berm with a hedge at least two feet in height at the time of planting may also
be used. If adjacent to railroad right-of-way, a six-foot tall brick wall,
permacast wall with brick or decorative finish shall be provided. A six-foot
tall decorative or PVC fence may be utilized in lieu of a wall, however shrubs
a minimum of 4-foot tall upon planting shall be provided for additional safety.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.05 PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Landscaping shall be provided for interior vehicular use areas to provide
visual and climatic relief from broad expanses of pavement, and to channelize
and define pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (A)   Landscape requirements.
      (1)   A minimum of one canopy tree, one understory tree and three shrubs
shall be provided in the interior of the parking lot, within dedicated
landscape areas, for every 25 paved parking spaces or fraction thereof. Parking
lot landscaping shall not count towards buffer requirements.
      (2)   Parking lots containing more than the minimum required number of
parking spaces (as set forth in
Chapter 155, Appendix B , Lake Mary Code of Ordinances) shall provide
additional landscaping. For each percentage over the minimum parking space
requirement, there shall be a commensurate percentage of additional parking lot
landscaping rounded upward to the nearest 5 percent. For example, a parking lot
containing 7 percent additional spaces shall provide 10 percent additional
canopy trees, 10 percent additional understory trees and 10 percent additional
shrubs.
         (a)   A minimum of 50 percent of the additional plant material must be
planted within the interior of the parking lot. The remainder of the additional
plant material shall be dispersed within the parking lot, and around the
perimeter of the parking lot to provide both a visual barrier to the parking
area and additional climatic relief from the pavement.
         (b)   In no case shall the size of the land area devoted to
landscaping relieve a developer from installing all required plant material.
Expansion of interior landscape islands and exterior landscape buffers may be
required in order to accommodate a healthy growth environment for all required
landscaping. The minimum size of a parking lot island shall be 9' x 19' to
ensure proper growth and protection of the landscaping materials planted
therein. A 9' x 17' island to correspond with a 9' x 17' parking space if
unique conditions exist (such as two (2) foot overhang). Other sizing may be
approved by the city if unique conditions exist.
       (3)   A minimum of 10 percent of the gross square footage of the paved
parking lot area and entrance way shall be devoted to landscaping.
      (4)   If parking lot lighting is provided, it shall be positioned within
the parking lot so that the normal growth patterns of the landscape material
will not interfere with or diminish the photometric design of the light
fixtures.
   (B)   Interior and perimeter landscaped areas shall be dispersed so as to
define aisles and limit unbroken rows of parking to a maximum of 100 feet.
      (1)   Each landscape break shall be a minimum of 200 square feet.
      (2)   In no instance shall a landscape break encroach into the travel
lanes.
   (C)   All parking garages shall be required to provide the following:
      (1)   Landscaped hanging baskets, flower boxes, and/or landscaped
planters around the exterior of all levels of the garage structure where the
facade of said structure is visible from a public right-of-way. The amount of
landscape coverage of each facade shall be equivalent to 10 percent of the
total square footage of each facade. Placement of landscape treatments shall be
dispersed across the expanse of each facade with the intent of moderating the
visual impact of the structure.
      (2)   A Type (A) buffer, a minimum of ten feet wide, shall be provided
around the perimeter of the parking garage. The intent of this landscape buffer
is to provide aesthetic appeal and a dense visual buffer to the structure.
Varying heights of plant material shall be provided so as to effect vertical
landscape coverage of at least the first floor of the structure. Plantings
shall be dispersed within the buffer so as to effect visual depth of plant
material. In order to achieve this landscaping scheme, additional planting
beyond minimum requirements may be required. The planting scheme shall be
specifically approved by the Planning & Zoning Board and City Commission (if
the project is required to go to the City Commission), during the site plan
approval process for the parking garage structure.
   (D)   Small lots less than 1000 square feet inclusive of driving aisle, and
parking areas for detached single-family homes are exempt from these
requirements.
   (E)   Landscaping between buildings and parking lots. Any building
consisting of two or more stories shall provide a landscape buffer of at least
ten feet in width located between the building and parking lot. This landscape
buffer shall be provided along each side of the building fronting on a right-
of-way. This buffer shall be a mixture of foundation landscaping and understory
trees.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.06 ADDITIONAL LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Solid waste dumpsters, recycling receptacles and refuse areas. Solid
waste dumpsters, recycling receptacles, refuse areas and other like uses where
refuse or recycling materials are stored outside shall be screened from view
from off site by constructing a minimum six-foot high masonry enclosure or some
other method of screening acceptable to the city. The masonry wall must be
constructed of a permanent, low maintenance finish such as patterned concrete,
rock-salted concrete, split face or ribbed concrete, stone, brick, or tile.
Stucco and raw concrete are not acceptable finishes. Gates necessary to access
the refuse area shall be minimum of six foot high and may be constructed of
wood. Groundcover at least three feet tall at time of planting must be provided
around the dumpster enclosure.
   (B)   Loading areas, shipping docks, and/or freight transfer areas. Loading
areas, shipping docks, and/or freight transfer areas and like uses must be
located along building sides which are not adjacent to Rinehart Road, C.R. 46A,
Lake Mary Boulevard and/or Lake Emma Road. If loading areas, shipping docks,
and/or freight transfer areas and like uses are located along a building side
that is visible from Interstate 4, the buffer width and the landscaping shall
be twice that normally required, with the majority of the plantings located so
as to screen the loading area from the interstate. The city may require
additional plantings may be required to completely mask the area.
   (C)   Mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment and appurtenances such as
air conditioner units, ventilation equipment, refrigeration systems, heating
units, incinerator units, and satellite dishes must be screened so that they
are not visible from any abutting public right-of-way, including roof-top
equipment. The point within the right-of-way at which visibility shall be
determined shall be six feet above the intersection or intersections of the
centerline of the abutting right(s)-of-way and the extended side property line
(s) of the subject site. Properties designated on the official zoning map as M-
1A or M-2A are exempt from this requirement unless said properties fall within
the Rinehart Road Corridor Overlay Development District or are adjacent to a
residential district not separated by a right-of-way. The screen shall consist
of a solid wall, facade, parapet, or other similar screening material which is
architecturally compatible and consistent with the associated building. If
landscaping is utilized the planting must be as high as the mechanical units
upon planting.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.07 PLANTING STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   All planting materials and other landscape treatments must meet or exceed
the standards and requirements as set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of
this section.
   (A)   Preservation of native vegetation. A minimum of 10% of existing native
vegetative communities shall be preserved. If an applicant is unable to meet
his requirement a commensurate amount of native, xeric species shall be planted
in lieu of preservation.
   (B)   A minimum of 40% of each required planting material must be of the
XERISCAPE tm variety (high drought tolerance) which are marked with an asterisk
(*) on the approved species lists in division (D) of this section. If the
applicant is unable to meet this requirement the use of reuse treated
wastewater or stormwater for irrigation purposes shall be required.
   (C)   Nuisance and exotic plant species. All nuisances and invasive exotic
vegetation shall be removed where feasible and appropriate, and replaced with
native plant species. Nuisance species shall include but not be limited to
those species listed in §
157.16.
   (D)   Quality. Plant materials used in conformance with the provisions of
this section shall equal or exceed the Florida No. 1, as given in the most
current addition “Grades and Standards for Nursery Plants,” Florida State
Department of Agriculture, and amendments thereto.
      (1)   Trees. Required tree plantings shall be measured by height, defined
as the top of the crown to the base of the trunk at the ground surface after
plantings; caliper, defined as the radius of the trunk measured one foot above
the ground surface after planting; and crown spread, defined as the radius of
the circumference of the tree limbs and branches.
         (a)   Canopy trees shall have a minimum height of 15 feet, a minimum
caliper of 3½ inches, and a minimum crown spread of four feet.
         (b)   Understory trees shall have a minimum height of eight feet, a
minimum caliper of two inches, a minimum crown spread of four feet.
      (2)   Shrubs and hedges. Hedge plantings and shrubs shall be a minimum of
two feet in height immediately upon planting, and reach an average height of 30
inches within one year after planting. Hedges shall be of non-deciduous
species, and planted and maintained so as to form a continuous unbroken solid
visual screen within a maximum of one year after planting. Minimum plant
spacing shall be 30 inches on center.
      (3)   Ground cover. Ground cover used in lieu of grass shall be planted
in a manner as to present a finished appearance and reasonably complete
coverage within three months after planting.
      (4)   Lawn grass. Grass shall be a species normally grown as permanent
lawns in the city. Grass seed shall be clean and reasonably free of weeds and
noxious pests or diseases. Grass seed shall be delivered to the job site in
containers with State Department of Agriculture tags attached indicating the
seed grower’s compliance with the Department’s quality control program.
      (5)   Berm. When a berm is used to form a visual screen in lieu of or in
conjunction with a hedge or wall, the berm shall not exceed a slope of three
feet measured horizontally to one foot measured vertically, and shall be
completely covered with shrubs, grass, or other living ground cover.
      (6)   Wall. When a brick wall is used for a visual screen, the wall shall
conform to the architectural style and materials of surrounding properties. If
the finished grading elevations between a proposed development and the adjacent
property vary to such a degree that the screening effect of the wall is
diminished to the detriment of the adjacent property, the height requirement of
the wall may be increased above six foot by the city.
      (7)   Mulch. A layer of mulch to a minimum depth of three (3) inches
shall be required in plant beds. Gravel, river rock, shell and similar
materials may be used as landscape mulch. Mulch rings shall extend to at least
three (3) feet around freestanding trees and shrubs. Mulches shall be kept at
least twelve (12) inches away from any portion of a building or structure and
six (6) inches away from stems of plants or trunks of trees. Plastic sheeting
and other impervious materials shall not be used under mulched areas.
   (E)   Safety and protection.
      (1)   Curbing or wheel stops shall be used to protect landscaped areas.
      (2)   If vehicles overhang the landscaped area, tree trunks and shrubs
shall be planted three feet from the edge of the parking space to avoid damage
by vehicles.
      (3)   Street and highway sight distances established by the State
Department of Transportation “Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design,
Construction, and Maintenance” shall be observed for all street intersections
or driveways and streets. Within these sight distances, no landscape material
exceeding two and one-half feet in height shall be permitted. Trees shall be
permitted when traffic visibility is not obstructed.
   (F)   Approved species. The landscaping requirements of this chapter may be
achieved by using recommendations from the most current University of Florida
“Florida Friendly Landscape™” Publication - https://ffl.ifas.ufl.edu/ Other
species may also be used if approved in advance by the city as being equivalent
in function and quality.
Note: Three palm trees (minimum 15 in height and six (6) inch diameter measured
one foot above the ground at the time of planting) are equivalent to one canopy
tree. Two understory trees meeting the minimum planting standards are
equivalent to one canopy tree.
   Understory trees: Trees which normally grow to a mature height of 15-35
feet.
Note: Two palm trees (minimum 15 feet in height and six-inch diameter measured
one foot above the ground at the time of planting) are equivalent to one
understory tree.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.08 MAINTENANCE.
   Maintenance shall consist of mowing, removing of litter and dead plant
material, necessary pruning, watering, and fertilizing. Maintenance is required
in order to insure proper growth and aesthetics of landscaped areas.
   (A)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of a property, tenant, or agent shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping on-site and in
grassed rights-of-way adjoining landscape areas, to present a neat, healthy,
and orderly appearance, free of refuse and debris.
      (2)   The owner shall have an implied easement on rights-of-way extending
from the site to the road pavement to complete the required maintenance.
   (B)   Irrigation. All landscaped areas shall be provided with an underground
irrigation system. The city may approve other water maintenance provisions for
unusual landscape conditions, but a readily available water source shall be
located within 150 feet of any plant material. Reclaimed water shall be used
where available. Every attempt should be made to use low flow irrigation
components.
   (C)   Pruning.
      (1)   Applicability. The owner of a property, tenant or agent shall not
trim, prune, remove living branches or cause the diminution of the crown of any
canopy tree or understory tree without having first obtained a pruning permit.
Existing single-family homes shall be exempt from permitting requirements.
Pruning shall conform with current ANSI A300 Pruning Standards or with the
University of Florida Department of Agriculture guidelines - https://
hort.ifas.ufl.edu/woody/r emoving-branches.shtml
      (2)   Permit application procedures. Pruning permits shall be applied for
and granted in accordance the regulations set forth in §
157.23  of this chapter.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.09 VIOLATIONS OF §§ 157.03 - 157.08; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Unless specific variances are granted, site plan and preliminary plat
approval may be withheld and no building permits shall be issued on lands where
violations of this chapter are determined to exist, until appropriate remedial
action is agreed to by the city and completed by the owner of the land. A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued by the Building Official for any
construction until all applicable remedies have been accomplished.
   (B)   The Building Official will conduct periodic inspections to assure
compliance with the maintenance requirements of this chapter. Notice of
noncompliance may be given by the Building Official by certified mail, with a
reinspection to be made 30 days after the first notice. Continued violation
after 30 days will be referred to the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.10 VARIANCE FROM §§ 157.04 - 157.07.
   The City Commission may waive various provisions of §§
157.04  through
157.07  if the general intent and purpose of the district is maintained. Cases
where a variance may be appropriate include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   The existing land use and zoning classification of surrounding
properties are inconsistent.
   (B)   The existing zoning classification and the future land use designated
on the comprehensive plan for surrounding properties are inconsistent.
   (C)   There is an unusual site size, location, or configuration.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.11 ARBOR REGULATIONS; SCOPE.
   The terms and provisions of §§
157.11  through
157.24  shall apply to all real property, public and private, without
exception, lying within the municipal boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.12 ARBOR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly, cut down, remove or move, or
authorize the cutting down, removing, moving, of any living trees greater than
15 feet, as measured from the trunk to the structure, excluding the overhang,
situated on property within the city without an arbor permit having first been
obtained.
   (A)   Permit contents. The arbor permit, when issued, shall specifically
identify which trees shall be permitted to be removed. The removal permit
merely authorizes the removal of the trees specified therein. Nothing in this
chapter shall be constructed to require the removal of such trees by the
permittee.
   (B)   Permit expiration. Any permit issued under this chapter shall
automatically expire 60 days after issuance, except for permits issued in
conjunction with a building permit, site plan, or final subdivision plan which
shall automatically expire at such time the respective permit expires. A
maximum extension of 30 days may be granted provided good cause is shown and
provided the conditions of the permit approval have not changed. An application
for extension shall be filed with staff at least 30 days prior to the
expiration of the 60-day period. An extension may be granted without public
hearing.
   (C)   Restrictions on the tree removal after permit expiration. Trees not
removed during the life of the permit may not be removed without the issuance
of a new permit based upon a new application.
   (D)   Permit form. Permits shall be issued in such form as may be prescribed
by the City Manager or his/her designee and may set forth in detail the
conditions upon which the permit is granted. One permit may cover several trees
or groups of trees as long as the same can be clearly identified thereon;
however, no permit may be issued for more than one parcel or area of land
unless those parcels or areas of land shall be contiguous to one another.
   (E)   Permit display. The permit shall be located and maintained upon the
site at all times until final inspection or until issuance of a certificate of
occupancy if applicable. For new developments, the permit shall be attached to
the “posting board” with other permits. For existing developments and existing
single-family residences, the permit shall be readily available.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.13 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following procedures shall be followed and shall govern the granting of
all arbor permits pursuant to this section.
   (A)    Filing application and payment of fees. An application for tree
removal shall be filed on official forms provided by the city. The applicant
shall be required to pay a fee as shall be established by resolution of the
City Commission, except that no fee shall be required for the removal of trees
that are dead, diseased, suffer from severe structural defects, pose a clear
and obvious safety hazard to structures and people or removed for a public
project sponsored and paid for by the city. If the applicant is not the
property owner, then the applicant shall attach the written permission of the
property owner to the application. Completed applications shall be returned to
the Community Development Department for processing, along with the following:
      (1)   A survey of the property indicating:
         (a)   Property boundaries;
         (b)   The location of individual trees to be removed, including the
tree’s common or scientific name, caliper of trees, and distance of trees from
nearby structures.
         (c)   The location of any existing structures on site, to include
accessory structures such as pools, pool decks, drives, parking areas, etc.
         (d)   A replacement plan indicating the means of compensating for the
trees to be removed including the species and size of any replacement tree(s),
if required.
         (e)   Location of trees preserved either for replacement credit, or to
show how the site continues to meet the minimum trees required on site.
         (f)   Valid reasons for the removal of trees.
         (g)   The appropriate permit fees.
      (2)   All new subdivisions, and commercial and industrial site plans,
will have their tree removal permitting done at the time of the Site
Construction Permit. Due consideration will be given to protection of trees
during the Development Review Committee process.
      (3)   All new one- and two-family dwelling units shall be required to
submit an application for an arbor permit at the time of application for a
building permit; the tree inventory shall be shown on the building plot plan.
   (B)   Application review. Upon receipt of proper application, and except for
those associated with subdivision and site plan review, the City Manager or his
designee shall review that application, which shall include a field check of
the site and referral of the application for recommendations to other
appropriate administrative departments or agencies.
   (C)   Fees. A permit fee as established by resolution and codified in
Chapter 163 shall be charged for all approved arbor permits applicable to
existing, developed residential lots. A permit fee for arbor permits applicable
to new residential development, new non-residential development and/or existing
non-residential development shall be imposed by resolution of the City
Commission. Payment of this fee shall be remitted prior to issuance of the
arbor permit. No fee shall be required for the removal of trees that are dead,
diseased, suffer from severe structural defects, pose a clear and obvious
safety hazard to structures and people or removed for a public project
sponsored by the city. If the applicant is not the owner, then the applicant
shall attach written permission of the property owner to the application.
   (D)   Exempting portion of the tree survey. Upon request, the city may
permit an applicant to omit certain portions of the tree inventory where
compliance with the requirements set forth herein would be unnecessarily
burdensome and the exempted portions are not needed for the city to evaluate
the application.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.14 REQUIREMENT FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   General. Upon receipt of a completed application and verification on-
site by the city, a permit may be issued for tree removal under any one of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Trees located on building and construction sites as shown on city-
approved plans must meet the minimum standard as defined in §
157.16.
      (2)   Non-nuisance trees located within 15 feet of a structure, excluding
walls and fences, provided said trees are replaced elsewhere on the property if
the minimum planting standards of the property are not otherwise met, in
accordance with §
157.16.
      (3)   Nuisance trees located anywhere on the property.
      (4)   Historic trees shall not be removed in a developed single-family
dwelling district without specific approval of the City Tree Board unless the
following requirements are met: 1) the tree trunk or any portion of the tree
trunk is located within 7-1/2 feet of an existing single-family residential
structure or within 7-1/2 feet of a proposed single- family residential
structure for which a permit has been submitted and approved by the city; 2)
the site in question has five additional canopy trees over the minimum number
of plantings on site as outlined in §
157.16, not including the historic tree itself; 3) the historic tree is
severely diseased, severely injured, dead, or is an immediate threat to health
and public safety.
      (5)   Trees severely diseased, severely injured or dead.
      (6)   Trees that interfere with the construction or repair of public
utilities, recreational and other public infrastructure.
      (7)   Undesirable trees, per §
157.14(B).
      (8)   Trees that have been approved by the City Manager or his/her
designee and which shall be replaced elsewhere on the property subject to §
157.16.
      (9)   For new single-family residential/commercial, trees less than 6"
caliper.
      (10)   For existing single-family properties, trees less than 12"
caliper.
   (B)   Exemptions from permitting requirements.
      (1)   Under the preemption language in F.S. § 163.045, pruning, trimming
or removal of a tree on residential property, as defined in F.S. § 163.045,
does not require a permit if the property owner possesses documentation, as
defined in F.S. § 163.045, from an arborist certified by the International
Society of Arboriculture or a Florida-licensed landscape architect that the
tree poses an unacceptable risk to persons or property. A tree poses an
unacceptable risk if removal is the only means of practically mitigating its
risk below moderate, as determined by the tree risk assessment procedures
outlined in Best Management Practices - Tree Risk Assessment, Second Edition
(2017). For trees removed in accordance with the requirements of F.S. §
163.045, no replacement tree is required.
      (2)   All trees and plants, within a licensed tree nursery, planted for
harvest.
      (3)   Thinning of trees. A certified arborist or person who holds a
degree in horticulture or forestry or a licensed landscape architect shall
certify in writing the selective removal of existing trees to provide increased
light and air circulation to support good forestry practices; for example, the
number of healthy trees a given parcel will support.
      (4)   Personal consumption for firewood or arts and crafts for properties
zoned A-1 (Agriculture) with a minimum lot size of three acres utilizing trees
of less than 12-inch caliper.
      (5)   In the event that any tree shall endanger health or safety and
require immediate removal without delay, such as, but not limited to, the
cutting of emergency fire lanes by fire-fighting units, verbal authorization
may be given by the City Manager and the trees removed without obtaining a
written permit as herein required. Such verbal authorization shall later be
confirmed in writing by the City Manager, and an after the fact arbor permit
must be issued.
      (6)   Trees removed by the city or other governmental agency and which
are located within a public road or drainage rights-of-way or permanent
utilities or drainage easements or public park.
      (7)   Nuisance trees. Any trees considered invasive/exotic by the Florida
Exotic Plant/Pest Council may be removed. https://www.fleppc.org/list/list._htm
      (8)   Criteria for measuring trees.
         (a)   For one- and two-family residential properties, trees that
measure less than 12 inches at caliper may be removed without a permit. When
remaining stumps are less than 12 inches above the ground, staff shall make a
determination if the removed tree required a permit. For trees cut at ground
level, a permit is not required for removal when the stump has a diameter of 15
inches or less.
         (b)   For all multi-family and non-residential properties, trees that
measure less than six inches at caliper may be removed without a permit. When
the remaining stumps are less than 12 inches above the ground, staff shall make
a determination if the removed tree required a permit. For trees cut at ground
level, a permit is not required for trees when the stump has a diameter of
seven and one- half inches or less.
         (c)   If trees are not symmetrical, a minimum of two diameter
measurements shall be taken and averaged to determine the caliper of the tree.
The measurements shall be taken at the widest and narrowest points of the
stump.
      (9)   Except as provided in division (B)(1), trees which are impacted by
non-survival, disease, acts of God, and other injuries not related to
development shall be replaced within 30 days in accordance with §
157.17, the replacement criteria of this section, and/or the approved site
plan. Failure to make replacement within 30 days from receiving notification
from the city for unhealthy and dead trees shall constitute a violation, and be
regulated in accordance with §
157.17.
      (10)   Appeal. Decisions denying a tree removal permit, or rejecting a
restoration or preservation plan may be appealed to the City Tree Board. A
written appeal request shall be submitted to the city within 30 days from the
permit denial. The decision of the City Tree Board may be appealed to the City
Commission. A written appeal request shall be submitted to the Community
Development Department 30 days from the date of the City Tree Board’s decision.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18; Am. Ord. 1634, passed 1-7-21; Am. Ord. 1669,
passed 8-18-22)
§ 157.15 VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   If a tree not authorized for removal is removed, altered, or damaged
such that its susceptibility to disease or other detrimental environmental
factors is significantly increased which may result in premature death, the
general contractor and/or property owner shall pay fines based upon the
following:
      (1)   Failure to obtain a permit - Fine of $250 per tree or $500 per
historic tree removed.
      (2)   Removal of a tree without a permit (Additional Fine) - Fine of $50
per caliper inch, per tree removed.
      (3)   Removal of an historic tree without a permit (Additional Fine) -
Fine of $100 per caliper inch.
   (B)   The Initial Fine may not be mitigated. However, the violator
committing to a replacement plan utilizing the replacement ratio and criteria
provided in Table 1 below may mitigate the Additional Fine related to the size
of the tree removed. The commitment to mitigate must be proposed by the
violator, be acceptable to the city, and the replacement trees must be
installed within 90 days of the date when the violator was notified of the
violation. Replacement trees must be guaranteed until the tree reaches the
minimum required size.
      (1)   Fines collected for violation of this chapter shall be deposited in
a City Tree Bank, which is used to facilitate the planting of trees on public
property within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The number of required replacement trees may be waived by the City
Commission, if the City Commission determines the remaining number of trees to
be preserved on site are of sufficient number and quality to substantially
comply with the purpose and intent of this chapter and a tree replacement fee
is paid to the city’s Tree Bank. The contribution to the Tree Bank may be
waived by the City Commission for individual homeowners, on a case-by-case
basis, if the homeowner can demonstrate that the payment of the fee will cause
the homeowner an undue economic hardship. Substitute tree(s) allowed under this
waiver provision must have approval of the City Commission. The value to be
paid into the Tree Bank shall be set forth in Table 1 and are based upon the
wholesale market value of the trees being replaced, plus installation and
maintenance cost to establish the tree.
Table 1: Tree Removal Violation Replacement and Mitigation Standards*
                 Number of          Number of Replacement
DBH of Protected Replacement Canopy Understory Trees      Contribution to Tree
Tree             Trees Required for Required for Each     Bank**
                 Each Tree Removed  Tree Removed
Table 1: Tree Removal Violation Replacement and Mitigation Standards*
                  Number of          Number of Replacement
DBH of Protected  Replacement Canopy Understory Trees      Contribution to Tree
Tree              Trees Required for Required for Each     Bank**
                  Each Tree Removed  Tree Removed
4" up to but not  1                  1                     $250
including 8"
8" up to but not  2                  2                     $500
including 12"
12" up to but not 3                  5                     $750
including 16"
16" up to but not 4                  6                     $1,000
including 24"
                                                           May only be approved
                                                           by the Tree Board or
                                                           the City Manager or
24" and greater   5                  7                     his/her designee and
                                                           which may include a
                                                           combination of
                                                           mitigation methods.
* This table does not apply to new development.
** Amounts may be adjusted when appropriate based on increased costs of plants.
 
      (3)   Any fines which remain unpaid after 30 days will become liens on
the property.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.16 MINIMUM TREE STANDARDS.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued on the types of construction
indicated below unless the underlying parcel has at least the required minimum
number of approved trees:
   (A)   Any new one or two-family dwelling unit on a lot less than 6,000
square feet: not fewer than two canopy trees. Understory trees or palm trees
can be utilized using the equivalency and planting standards outlined in §
157.17(F)(1).
   (B)   Any new one or two-family dwelling unit on a lot equal to 6,000 square
feet: not fewer than two canopy trees plus one additional canopy tree for each
4,000 square feet over 6,000 square feet. Understory trees or palm trees can be
utilized using the equivalency and planting standards outlined in §
157.07(F)(1).
   (C)   Any commercial, industrial, multi-family or other structure requiring
site plan approval under the city land development regulations: for properties
up to 1-1/2 acres, a minimum of six canopy trees will be required; for
properties one and one-half acres or greater, four canopy trees per acre,
whichever is greater will be required.
   (D)   In the event an applicant wishes to remove a historic tree from a
construction site as part of a new commercial or industrial site plan, or
residential subdivision, and the tree is not within an area of infrastructure,
building pad, or within 7.5' of a building, all of the following mitigation
must occur (no variance or waiver is permitted):
      (1)   Replacement canopy trees planted at a ratio of 5:1; and
      (2)   Replacement understory trees planted at a ratio of 7:1.
      (3)   In the event replacement trees are unable to be planted on site, a
contribution to the City Tree Bank of $1,250 per historic tree removed shall be
made.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.17 TREE REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All trees that are removed or destroyed and are subject to
replacement by this chapter shall be replaced by a species of tree cited in §
157.06. Replacement shall occur prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy (if approval is pending) or within 30 days of removal or destruction,
whichever is earlier, unless a greater replacement period is provided.
      (2)   Criteria for replacement trees is as follows:
         (a)    Characteristics of replacement trees. The replacement tree(s)
shall have at least equal shade potential, screening properties, and/or other
characteristics comparable to that of the tree(s) requested to be removed.
         (b)   Size of replacement trees. Replacement tree(s) are to be made
according to the tree replacement standards as set forth in this chapter.
         (c)   Tree species. Relocated or replacement trees shall include only
species and sizes defined as “replacement trees” under this chapter.
         (d)   Transplanting and maintenance requirements. All trees
transplanted pursuant to this chapter shall be maintained in a healthy, living
condition. Any such trees that die shall be replaced and maintained by the
property owner.
   (B)   If replacement trees are required in order to meet the minimum number
of trees required, two replacement trees shall be required for every tree with
less than a 12-inch caliper that is removed. Three replacement trees shall be
required for every tree with a caliper between 12 inches and 24 inches
(inclusive) to be removed. Four replacement trees shall be required for every
tree with a caliper in excess of 24 inches that is removed. Replacement trees
shall not be required for the removal of any type of pine tree up to 12 inches
DBH. In addition to standard replacement, the site must meet the minimum site
plan landscaping requirements, and the tree size and location requirements of
this section.
   (C)   In determining the required relocation or replacement of trees, the
City Manager or his/her designee shall consider the needs of the intended use
of the property together with a realistic evaluation of the following:
      (1)   Existing tree coverage.
      (2)   Number of trees to be removed on the entire property.
      (3)   Area to be covered with structures, parking, and driveways.
      (4)   Topography and drainage of the site and its environs.
      (5)   Character of the site and its environs.
      (6)   Ecology of the site.
      (7)   Characteristics and amount of shrubs, grass, and trees proposed for
planting on the site by the applicant.
   (D)   Alternatives to standard replacement. If the total number of trees
required cannot be accommodated on a site, the total caliper inches shall be
met by the placement of fewer but larger trees as approved by the Parks and
Recreation Director (e.g., if a 15-inch caliper tree is removed, then total
caliper inches replaced must be at least nine inches as in the placement of
three three-inch caliper trees or two trees each with four and one-half
caliper);
   (E)   Limited exception for existing single family lots. Notwithstanding any
other tree replacement standards set forth in this section, an arbor permit for
a single tree shall be granted, as a matter of right, for each existing single
family home lot, provided that the Community Development Department determines
that:
      (1)   The tree is not an historic tree;
      (2)   The tree canopy covering the pervious portion of the lot after
removal of the tree will be greater than 50%; and
      (3)   A permit under this division (E) had not been granted during the
preceding three-year period.
   (F)   Replacement stock.
      (1)   In all cases wherein this chapter shall require replacement of any
tree removed, the replacement shall be made with replacement stock, as defined
in §
15.02. Survival of replacement stock will be guaranteed until that replacement
stock shall meet the definition of a tree as defined in §
157.02. Trees listed in division (F)(2) of this section shall not qualify as
replacement stock.
      (2)   Replacement stock may be any species listed in §
157.07(F). Suitable replacement stock shall be achieved by using
recommendations from the most current University of Florida "Florida Friendly
Landscape™" Publication - https://ffl.ifas.ufl.edu/ Other species may also be
used if approved in advance by the city as being equivalent in function and
quality.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.18 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person adversely affected by a final decision of any city official
or employee in the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter, may appeal
such decision to the Tree Board who may affirm, reverse, or modify the
decision. Any aggrieved party may appeal any decision of the Arbor Board to the
City Commission who may affirm, reverse, or modify the decision. Any decision
of the City Commission is subject to review by the circuit court.
   (B)   Any person attempting to comply with the Florida ATM security act or
other state- mandated public safety requirement adversely affected by any
decision of any city official or employee in the enforcement or interpretation
of this chapter may appeal directly to the City Commission for relief. The Tree
Board would be bypassed in an effort to quickly and efficiently resolve any
alleged public safety issues. Such appeals will be placed on the next available
City Commission agenda provided that the appeal is received by the city at
least seven days prior to the date on which the City Commission will hear the
appeal. Any decision of the City Commission is subject to review by the circuit
court by certiorari.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.19 ADMINISTRATIVE VARIANCES.
   The City Manager or his/her designee shall be authorized to approve
variances from the following development standards only in order to protect
trees with a caliper of 12 inches or greater:
   (A)   Setbacks for principal and accessory buildings and structures, and
vehicular use areas. Maximum reduction, 20%.
   (B)   Parking (number of spaces) standards. Maximum reduction, 5% or one
space (whichever is more).
   (C)   Parking space length up to 1.5 feet.
   (D)   Landscape break spacing (up to 120-foot separation).
   (E)   Landscape breaks may be relocated to protect significant trees.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.20 VIOLATION; DENIAL OF PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   No building permits shall be issued on lands where violations of this
chapter are determined to exist, until such time as the city agrees to
appropriate remedial action which is completed by the owner of the land. A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued for any construction until all
applicable remedies have been accomplished.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.21 TREE PRESERVATION DURING DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION.
   The City Manager, or his/her designee, may conduct periodic inspections of
the site before work begins and during clearing, contraction, and post-
construction phases of development in order to ensure compliance with the
intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Development prohibited within the tree protection area.
      (1)   All development activities shall be prohibited within areas
designated by the City Commission and/or Planning and Zoning Board as a tree
protection area for the preservation of existing trees. Prohibited activities
shall include, but are not limited to, construction of buildings, structures,
paving surfaces, compaction, cutaways, stormwater retention ponds, and/or
trenching. All temporary construction activities shall also be prohibited
within the tree protection areas, including but not limited to, digging,
trenching, construction lay-down areas, material storage, and parking of
construction vehicles or employee vehicles. Installation of irrigation in a
tree protection area is exempt from this prohibition.
      (2)   Finding alternative parking arrangements for construction crews
must be an integral part of the tree protection plan.
   (B)   Fencing of undisturbed areas. Prior to the commencement of
construction, the developer shall enclose the entire tree protection area
within a fence or similar barrier approved by the city.
      (1)   Wooden or equivalent posts at least four by four inches shall be
implanted a minimum of three feet in the ground and with at least four feet
visible above the ground.
      (2)   The protective posts shall be placed not more than six feet apart
and shall be linked together by two rows of two by four inch wooden boards
spaced not farther than two and one-half feet apart.
      (3)   (a)   Protective posts and railings shall not be attached to or
secured to the trees in the tree protection area (See Illustration 1).
         (b)   Trees to be protected shall be located within a tree protection
area that shall conform to the following minimum standards:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6349.png]
ILLUSTRATION #1
 
 
                              Trees less than 12-inch Trees 12-inch or greater
                               caliper                 caliper
Setback from trunk             6 feet*                 10 feet*
Area - single tree             250 square feet         800 square feet
Area - each additional tree in 90 square feet          200 square feet
a group**
* Tree barricades shall be placed under the dripline of the trees.
** The largest tree in any group shall be considered the first tree for
counting purposes.
 
      (4)   Setbacks from trunks shall be measured from each individual tree in
a group.
      (5)   Each tree protection area shall have a minimum of two signs (see
illustration 2) securely attached to the fence barrier which shall face to the
exterior of the tree protection area. The minimum size of a sign must be six
square feet and each sign must have the following language legibly printed in
characters a minimum of one and one-half inches high on its face:
“TREE PRESERVATION AREA. Machinery, dumping, construction, parking, or storage
of any materials is PROHIBITED by City of Lake Mary Code. Violators are subject
to municipal infraction citations of $100.00 per violation. Enforced by the
City Community Development Department.”
      (6)   Each sign must be made of rigid material such as wood, metal, or
durable plastic. Non-rigid materials such as paper, cardboard, cellophane, or
foil are not acceptable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/23d6d16f562670cee1b4fc9e18e327d5c37f00ad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6351.png]
ILLUSTRATION #2
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.22 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Whenever any electric, water, telephone, or other public utility firm
or corporation wishes to extend, maintain, or relocate service such that any
tree on any unimproved lot or tract will be removed, they shall make
application for a permit to do so. Any public utility wishing to prune trees on
a right-of-way shall notify the Public Works Department in writing in advance
of the time and place these pruning activities will take place. The Public
Works Department shall supervise these activities as necessary and shall have
the authority to regulate or halt such pruning when these actions are deemed
detrimental to the trees or beyond that needed to ensure continued utility
service.
   (B)   A utility company shall not remove or alter any trees at a distance
greater than five feet from the utility pole, structure, or conductor within
the city without a permit having first been obtained.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.23 PRUNING.
   (A)   The owner of a property, the tenant, or their agent shall not trim,
prune, remove living branches or cause the diminution of the crown of any
canopy tree or understory tree without having first obtained a pruning permit.
Owners, tenants and/or agents of one and two-family dwelling units shall be
exempt from the requirement of having to obtain a pruning permit; however, such
owners, tenants and/or agents shall comply with all other provisions of this §
157.23.
   (B)   Tree pruning standards adopted. Pruning shall conform with current
ANSI A300 Pruning Standards or the University of Florida Department of
Agriculture guidelines -https://hort.ifas.ufl.edu/woody/_removing-
branches.shtml
   (C)   Substantial alteration. A pruning permit must be obtained from the
city prior to removal of 25% or more of the natural crown of the tree.
   (D)   Permit application procedures. Pruning permits shall be applied for
and granted in accordance with the regulations set forth in §
157.23 of this chapter. The following procedures shall be followed and shall
govern the granting of all permits pursuant to this section.
      (1)   Submittals. A permit fee as established by resolution and codified
in
Chapter 163 shall be charged for authorized tree pruning within the city. Each
application permit to alter, trim, prune, or reduce the canopy or crown of
trees herein shall be accompanied by a written statement indicating the reasons
for the requested action and two copies of a legible site plan drawn to the
largest practicable scale indicating the following:
         (a)   Location of all existing or proposed structures, improvements,
and site uses, properly dimensioned in reference to property lines, setback and
yard requirements in spatial relationship.
         (b)   Proposed changes, if any, in site elevations, grades and major
contours.
         (c)   Location of existing or proposed utility service.
         (d)   Applications involving developed properties may be based on
drawings showing only that portion of the site directly involved and adjacent
structures and landscaping or natural growth incidental hereto.
         (e)   Location of all existing trees to be pruned with a note
indicating the size and species as well as the extent of pruning and methods of
maintaining tree health.
      (2)   Application review. Upon receipt of proper application, the City
Manager or his/her designated agent shall review said application, which may
include a field check of the site and referral of the application for
recommendations to other appropriate administrative departments or agencies.
   (E)   Permits for pruning.
      (1)   Issuance. No permit for pruning shall be issued unless one of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   The branches to be pruned obstruct vision along a traveled
public or private way.
         (b)   The branches to be pruned interface with vehicular or pedestrian
travel lanes and present a safety hazard.
         (c)   The branches to be pruned are diseased, damaged, or in danger of
falling.
         (d)   The branches to be pruned interfere with utility lines, existing
or proposed structures so as to endanger such structures.
         (e)   The removal of specific living parts of the tree will increase
fruit or flower production or will facilitate the health of the tree as a
whole.
      (2)   Pruning Permit form. Permits shall be issued in such form as may be
prescribed by the City Manager or his/her designee and may set forth in detail
the conditions upon which the permit is granted. One permit may cover several
trees or groups of trees as long as the same can be clearly identified thereon;
however, no permit may be issued for more than one parcel or area of land
unless said parcels or areas of land shall be contiguous to one another.
   (F)   Injurious pruning. Irrespective of whether or not a pruning permit has
been issued, if a tree is pruned in a manner that is injurious to the tree,
including but not limited to the techniques described in §
157.23(B) above, the property owner shall pay to the city an initial fine of
$100 per tree pruned plus a fine related to the size of the tree pruned as
follows:
 
Size of Tree Pruned Measured One Foot Above the Ground Fine
6 inches to <12 inches                                 $600
12 inches to <24 inches                                $900
>24 inches                                             $1,200
 
   (G)   Appeals procedure. Any person adversely affected by a decision of any
city official in the enforcement or interpretation of this chapter may follow
appeal procedures as set forth in §
157.18.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
§ 157.24 INJURING SHADE TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut down, cut, bruise, or otherwise
injure any municipally-owned shade tree within the corporate limits of the
city. The person responsible shall be penalized as provided under §
157.15.
(Ord. 1601, passed 12-20-18)
CHAPTER 158: GATEWAY CORRIDOR OVERLAY
STANDARDS CLASSIFICATION
Section
   
158.01   Establishment
   
158.02   Purpose
   
158.03   Designated gateway corridors
   
158.04   Definitions
   
158.05   Building setback and height
   
158.06   Required corridor buffer; buffer design
   
158.07   Parking areas
   
158.08   Reserved
   
158.09   Utility lines
   
158.10   Walls
   
158.11   Variances
   
158.12   Exemptions
   
158.13   Screening of mechanical units
   
158.14   Interpretation
   
Appendix: Illustrations
§ 158.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In addition to, and supplemental to, all land development code requirements
heretofore and hereafter established, there is hereby created an overlay zoning
classification known as the “Gateway Corridor Overlay Standards
Classification.” Property within all gateway-corridors listed and described
within this chapter shall be subject to all provisions herein. That portion of
the Gateway Corridor that is also within the Big Lake Mary Overlay zoning
district shall comply with the provisions of §
154.90.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89; Am. Ord. 1282, passed 3-6-08)
§ 158.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to insure that designated Lake Mary Boulevard
Gateway Corridor is developed in a manner which:
   (A)   Insures the roadway is developed into a well landscaped, scenic
gateway;
   (B)   Provides uniform design standards to establish high quality
development;
   (C)   Prevents visual pollution caused by unplanned and uncoordinated uses,
buildings, and structures;
   (D)   Maximizes traffic circulation functions from the standpoint of safety,
roadway capacity, vehicular and non-vehicular movement;
   (E)   Maintains and enhances property values;
   (F)   Preserves natural features to the extent practicable; and
   (G)   Recognizes and makes allowances for existing uses and buildings.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
§ 158.03 DESIGNATED GATEWAY CORRIDORS.
   Lake Mary Boulevard from Markham Woods Road to Sanford Avenue shall include
all property within 320 feet of the adopted centerline to include intersecting
roadways to the same depth. If any part of any parcel abuts the right-of-way
line of the designated roadway, the entire parcel shall be subject to this
chapter as if the parcel were wholly within the stated corridor width. (See
Appendix, Figure A).
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
§ 158.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “LANDSCAPE BUFFER.” That area immediately abutting the right-of-way line to
which landscaping standards apply.
   “UTILITY LINES.” Utility lines of all kinds, including, but not limited to,
those of franchised utilities, electric power and light, telephone and
telegraph, cable television, water, sewer, and gas.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 5-18-17)
§ 158.05 BUILDING SETBACK AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   The front of any building constructed on a parcel 200 feet or more in
depth from the adopted right-of-way line shall be set back a minimum of 60
feet. In order to reduce the number of variance requests, this setback
requirement shall be reduced to 40 feet for parcels of less than 200-foot depth
which are not combined with any other parcel for the purposes of development.
(See Appendix, Figure B).
   (B)   No building shall be constructed whose roof exceeds 35 feet in height
as defined by each jurisdiction's land development code.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.06 REQUIRED CORRIDOR BUFFER; BUFFER DESIGN.
   A minimum 15-foot landscape buffer shall be provided by the developer/
property owner abutting the designated roadway right-of-way lines at the time
of development order or permit approval.
   (A)   The developer/property owner shall be responsible for the purchase,
installation, maintenance and irrigation of all required landscaping.
   (B)   This area shall be planted with live oaks, of four-inch diameter at
breast height (dbh) at planting, along a line ten feet back from the right-of-
way line. The trees shall be planted every 40 feet and staggered so as to be
midway between the live oaks planted in the adjacent right-of-way. A minimum of
four understory trees per 100 feet of frontage or fraction thereof shall be
planted in and about access points and intersections as shown on Appendix,
Figure C.
   (C)   No existing dedicated or reserved public or private right-of-way shall
be included in calculation of the buffer width.
   (D)   The corridor buffer area shall not include storm water retention
areas.
   (E)   If parking abuts the buffer, a continuous shrub hedge shall be
arranged or planted so that a height of three feet will be attained within one
year of planting so as to screen a minimum of 75% of the parking area, to that
height, as viewed from the right-of-way.
   (F)   Existing vegetation shall be used where possible to meet these
requirements.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.07 PARKING AREAS.
   Parking lots shall be landscaped according to the following criteria:
   (A)   Landscape requirement. A minimum of 10% of all parking areas and
entryways shall be landscaped.
   (B)   Parking bays. Parking bays shall not be larger than 20 spaces. Rows of
parking stalls shall be broken every ten stalls by a landscaped break as shown
on Appendix, Figure E.
   (C)   Landscape breaks.
      (1)   Perimeter landscaped parking breaks shall be a maximum of 200
square feet in area.
      (2)   Internal landscaped breaks shall be a minimum of 400 square feet
planted with one canopy tree, two- to three-inch diameter at breast height, for
every landscape break and a minimum of three shrubs for every landscaped break.
(See Appendix, Figure E).
      (3)   Diamond landscaped breaks shall be placed every ten spaces
internally, shall be eight feet by eight feet and shall be planted with one
canopy tree. (See Appendix, Figure E).
   (D)   Preservation. Existing vegetation shall be preserved where possible.
If trees are removed, individual jurisdictions shall specify replacement ratios
and species.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Lighting shall comply with the provisions of § 154.22.167
      (2)   The minimum setback from the property line shall be a horizontal
distance of 20 feet.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89; Am. Ord. 1052, passed 3-21-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.08 [RESERVED].
§ 158.09 UTILITY LINES.
   All new or relocated utility lines within a designated corridor shall be
construed and installed beneath the surface of the ground unless it is
determined by the City or the County Commissions that soil, topography, or any
other compelling conditions make the installation of utility lines as
prescribed herein unreasonable or impracticable.
   (A)   It shall be the developer's responsibility to make the necessary
arrangements with each utility in accordance with the utility's established
policy.
   (B)   The underground installation of incidental appurtenances, such as
transformer boxes, switch boxes, pedestal mounted boxes for the provision of
electricity shall not be required. However, such appurtenances where not
rendered impractical by the determination of the City Commission shall be
installed on the site of any development approved after the adoption of this
section. The necessary easements to allow the utility company access and
service to such appurtenances shall be dedicated to the service provider by the
developer prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   All transformers and switch boxes related to development approved
after the adoption of this section shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from
any right-of-way and shall be screened appropriately so as not to be seen from
any public right-of-way using landscape materials or masonry construction in
conformance with this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any entity
furnishing utility service within the city from collecting, as a condition
precedent to the installation of service facilities, any fee, repayment or
contribution in aid of construction which may be required.
(Ord. 490, passed 2-1-90; Am. Ord. 571, passed 10-3-91)
§ 158.10 WALLS.
   (A)   All freestanding walls, sound barriers, ground sign enclosures,
planters, and the like fronting along the designated roadway or its major
intersections shall be of brick. When a brick wall is used for a visual screen,
the wall shall conform to the architectural style and materials of surrounding
properties.
   (B)   Properties that directly abut the Lake Mary Boulevard right-of-way,
which have a residential zoning classification and a residential land use
designation, shall be permitted to erect or construct brick walls within the
front yard setback from Lake Mary Boulevard and intersecting streets, provided
that:
      (1)   No wall or portion of a wall shall exceed seven feet in height.
      (2)   Driveway sight distance and roadway intersection sight distance is
provided in accordance with Chapter 155, Appendix A, Section8, of the Lake Mary
Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   If a material other than brick is proposed as a wall surface, a
waiver must be sought from the City Commission at a public meeting. The party
seeking the waiver must make the request in writing to the Community
Development Department, accompanied by drawings, photographs or other
renderings that illustrate the alternative proposed. The City Commission may
approve an alternative wall material provided that the alternative proposed is
architecturally consistent with the principal structure on site, and the
proposed material is architecturally compatible with walls on contiguous
properties. A $50 non-refundable fee will be charged for a waiver request.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89; Am. Ord. 1014, passed 2-1-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted in cases where special conditions and
circumstances are a result of the actions of the applicant subsequent to the
date of adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   Each jurisdiction shall forward any and all variance requests to the
interlocal parties for their comments according to adopted interlocal agreement
provisions.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
§ 158.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   All residentially zoned single-family lots are exempted from meeting all
standards contained in this chapter except for the burial of utility service
lines, wall requirements and the building setback requirement.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
§ 158.13 SCREENING OF MECHANICAL UNITS.
   Mechanical equipment and appurtenances such as air conditioner units,
ventilation equipment, refrigeration systems, heating units, incineratory units
and satellite dishes must be screened so that they are not visible from any
public right-of-way. The screen shall consist of a solid wall, facade, parapet
or other similar screening material which is architecturally compatible and
consistent with the associated building. If landscaping is utilized the
plantings must be high enough within one year of planting to provide a screen
which will screen the entire unit with a minimum of 75% opacity.
(Ord. 657, passed 8-19-93)
§ 158.14 INTERPRETATION.
   This section shall not be construed to have the effect of repealing any
existing ordinance concerning the subject matter of this chapter, but the
regulations established herein shall be supplemental and cumulative. However,
in the case of direct conflict with a provision or provisions of any existing
ordinance, the provision that is more restrictive and imposes higher standards
or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 421, passed 3-16-89)
APPENDIX: ILLUSTRATIONS
[See hard copy of the code for Figures A through G.]
CHAPTER 159: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS RELATING TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR ZONING
CODE AMENDMENTS
Section
   
159.01   Incorporation of state law
   
159.02   Public hearings
   
159.03   Requirements of development agreement
   
159.04   Duration of development agreement
   
159.05   Consistency with the comprehensive plan and land development
regulations
   
159.06   Ordinances and policies governing a development agreement
   
159.07   Periodic review of a development agreement
   
159.08   Amendment or cancellation of development
   
159.09   Recording development agreements
   
159.10   Modification or revocation of development agreements to comply with
subsequently enacted state and federal law
   
159.11   Enforcement
§ 159.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of F.S. §§ 163.3223 (1990) through 163.3243 (1990) as
hereinafter recited be and they are hereby adopted as regulations and
procedures of this city for the purpose of permitting this city to consider and
enter into development agreements relating to amendments to Chapter 154 of the
city Land Development Code and/or amendments to the city comprehensive plan
with any persons having a legal or equitable interest in real property located
within the corporate limits of the city. The provisions of this chapter are
intended to apply only to proceedings relating to land use pursuant to the
Comprehensive land plan and the Land Development Code of the city. The
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to proceedings for subdivision
approval or site plan approval.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.02 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Before entering into amending or revoking a development agreement
entered into pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the City Commission of
the city shall conduct at least two public hearings.
   (B)   Notice of intent to consider a development agreement shall be
advertised at least seven days before each public hearing at which the proposed
development agreement is to be considered, in a newspaper of general
circulation and readership in Seminole County. A copy of the notice of intent
to consider a development agreement shall be mailed to all affected property
owners before the first public hearing. The day, time and place at which the
second public hearing will be held shall be announced at the first public
hearing.
   (C)   The notice of intent shall specify the location of the land subject to
the development agreement, the development uses proposed on the property, the
proposed population densities, and the proposed building intensities and
height, and shall specify where interested persons may obtain a copy of the
proposed agreement prior to any public hearing thereupon.
   (D)    AFFECTED PROPERTY OWNER means any property that is immediately
adjacent to or contiguous with the property that may be subject to any hearing
required to be held by this chapter or property that is located immediately
across any road or public right- of-way from the property subject to any
hearing under this chapter and such other property owners as shall be directed
by the City Commission of the city.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.03 REQUIREMENTS OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   A development agreement shall include the following:
      (1)   A legal description of the land subject to the agreement and the
names of its legal and equitable owners;
      (2)   The duration of the agreement;
      (3)   The development uses permitted on the land, including population
densities, and building intensities and height;
      (4)   A description of public facilities that will service the
development, including who shall provide such facilities; the date any new
facilities, if needed, will be constructed; and a schedule to assure public
facilities are available concurrent with the impact of the development;
      (5)   A description of any reservation or dedication of land for public
purposes;
      (6)   A description of all local development permits approved or needed
to be approved for the development of the land;
      (7)   A finding that the development permitted or proposed is consistent
with the local government's comprehensive plan and land development
regulations;
      (8)   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions, or other
requirements determined to be necessary by the local government for the public
health, safety, or welfare of its citizens; and
      (9)   A statement indicating that the failure of the agreement to address
a particular permit, condition, term, or restriction shall not relieve the
developer of the necessity of complying with the law governing said permitting
requirements, conditions, term, or restriction.
   (B)   Any development agreement may provide that the entire development or
any phase thereof be commenced or completed within a specific period of time.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.04 DURATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   The duration of any development agreement entered into by and between the
city and any person pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not exceed
five years. However, the term of any development agreement may be extended by
mutual consent of the City Commission of the city and any party thereto subject
to a public hearing held in accordance with the provisions of §
159.02 hereof, for a period not to exceed two years.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.05 CONSISTENCY WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
REGULATIONS.
   Any development agreement and development thereby authorized shall be
consistent with the local government's comprehensive plan and land development
regulations of this city.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.06 ORDINANCES AND POLICIES GOVERNING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The city's ordinances and policies governing the development of land
at the time of the execution of the development agreement shall govern the
development of the land for the duration of the development agreement.
   (B)   The City Commission of the city may apply subsequently adopted
ordinances and policies to a development that is subject to a development
agreement only if the City Commission has held a public hearing and determined:
      (1)   They are not in conflict with the ordinances and policies governing
the development agreement and do not prevent development of the land uses,
intensities, or densities in the development agreement;
      (2)   They are essential to the public health, safety, or welfare, and
expressly state that they shall apply to a development that is subject to a
development agreement;
      (3)   They are specifically anticipated and provided for in the
development agreement;
      (4)   The City Commission demonstrates that substantial changes have
occurred in pertinent conditions existing at the time of approval of the
development agreement; or
      (5)   The development agreement is based on substantially inaccurate
information supplied by the developer.
   (C)   This section does not abrogate any rights that may vest pursuant to
common law.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.07 PERIODIC REVIEW OF A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   The City Commission of the city shall review land subject to a development
agreement at least once every 12 months to determine if there has been
demonstrated good faith compliance with the terms of the development agreement.
If the local government finds, on the basis of substantial competent evidence,
that there has been a failure to comply with the terms of the development
agreement, the agreement may be revoked or modified by the City Commission.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.08 AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION OF DEVELOPMENT.
   A development agreement may be amended or canceled by mutual consent of the
parties to the agreement or be their successors in interest.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.09 RECORDING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Within 14 days after the city enters into a development agreement, the city
shall cause a copy of the agreement to be recorded by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court of Seminole County. Further, a copy of the recorded development agreement
shall be submitted to the Division of Community Affairs within 14 days after
recording. The burdens of the development agreement shall be binding upon, and
the benefits of the agreement shall inure to all successors in interest to the
parties to the agreement and shall run with the land.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.10 MODIFICATION OR REVOCATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS TO COMPLY WITH
SUBSEQUENTLY ENACTED STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   If state or federal laws are enacted after the execution of a development
agreement which are applicable to and preclude the parties' compliance with the
terms of a development agreement, such agreement shall be modified or revoked
as is necessary to comply with the relevant state or federal laws.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
§ 159.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any party, any aggrieved or adversely affected person as defined by F.S. §
163.3215(2), or the Division of Community Affairs may file an action for
injunctive relief in the Circuit Court of Seminole County to enforce the terms
of any development agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or to challenge the compliance of the agreement with the provisions of
F.S. §§ 163.3220 through 163.3243 and this chapter.
(Ord. 512, passed 6-21-90)
CHAPTER 160: RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
Section
   
160.01   Purpose
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Creation of Wetlands Protection Zones
   
160.04   Development activity within Wetland Protection Zones
   
160.05   Development standards for Wetland Protection Zones and for land
adjacent to Wetland Protection Zones
   
160.06   Variances to this chapter
§ 160.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that all lands designated as
environmentally sensitive are protected or developed in a manner which:
   (A)   Ensures that lands designated in this chapter will be protected in
order to ensure that natural floodplain function is maintained within the city;
   (B)   Ensures that the pollution assimilation capacities of the city’s
wetlands and the drainage basin’s wetlands as identified in this chapter are
preserved in order to maintain the quality of surface waters; and
   (C)   Ensures that wildlife habitats associated with wetlands are preserved.
(Ord. 538, passed 2-21-91; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ADVERSE EFFECTS.” Any modifications, alterations or effects on waters and
associated wetlands, including their quality, quantity, hydrology, surface
area, species composition or usefulness for human or natural uses due to
design, which are or may potentially be harmful or injurious to human health,
welfare, safety or property, to biological productivity, diversity or stability
or which unreasonably interfere with the reasonable use of the property,
including outdoor recreation. The term includes secondary and cumulative as
well as direct impacts.
   “ASSOCIATED WETLANDS.” Any wetlands that are adjacent or contiguous to
waters, or which have a direct hydrologic connection to waters.
   “BENEFICIAL FUNCTIONS OF A PROTECTED ENVIRONMENTALLY- SENSITIVE AREA.” Those
functions described in the Conservation Element of the Comprehensive Plan that
justify designating an area as environmentally sensitive.
   “DIRECT HYDROLOGIC CONNECTION.” A surface water connection which, under
normal RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS hydrological conditions, occurs on an
average of 30 or more consecutive days per year. In the absence of a surface
water connection, a continuum of wetlands may be used to establish a direct
hydrologic connection.
   “FLOODPLAIN.” See “FLOOD HAZARD AREA” in § 152.20 for definition.
   “POLLUTANT.” Any substance, contaminant, noise, man-made or man-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of
air or water in quantities or at levels which are or may be potentially harmful
or injurious to human health or welfare, animal or plant life or property, or
which unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or property including
outdoor recreation.
   “REGULATORY AGENCIES.” The St. Johns Water Management District, the Army
Corps of Engineers, the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation, the
city or other regulatory agency with jurisdiction.
   “SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT.” Any modification, alteration or effect upon a
Wetland Protection Zone which measurably reduces the areas beneficial function
as
delineated in the Conservation Element of the city comprehensive plan or any
district or regulatory agency long-range plan.
   “WATER BODY.” Any natural or artificial pond, lake, reservoir or other area
with a discernable shoreline which ordinarily or intermittently contains water.
   “WATER COURSE.” Any natural or artificial channel, ditch, canal, stream,
river, creek, waterway or wetland through which water flows in a definite
direction, either continuously or intermittently, and which has a definite
channel, bed, banks or other discernable boundary.
   “WATER’S EDGE” and “WETLAND’S EDGE.” The city does not recognize the
existence of wetland jurisdiction lines which are grandfathered. The water’s or
wetland’s edge shall be determined by whichever of the following indices yields
the most landward extent of waters or wetlands:
      (1)   The boundary established by the normal high water mark;
      (2)   The landward boundary of hydric soils as used by the St. Johns
River Water Management District defined in Chapter 40-C4 Florida Administrative
Code; or
      (3)   The landward boundary of wetland vegetation based on the
determination of the St. Johns River Water Management District, the Army Corps
of Engineers or the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation.
   “WATER MANAGEMENT DISTRICT” or “DISTRICT.” St. Johns River Water Management
District.
   “WETLAND PROTECTION ZONE.” An environmentally-sensitive area adjacent to
Crystal Lake or Soldiers Creek designated by the St. Johns River Water
Management District, the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation or the
Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 538, passed 2-21-91; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
§ 160.03 CREATION OF WETLANDS PROTECTION ZONES.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Wetlands Protection Zone, in which special
restrictions on development apply.
   (B)   The boundaries of this zone shall be defined as hydrologically-
sensitive wetland areas within the jurisdiction of the St. Johns River Water
Management District, the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation and the
Army Corps of Engineers pursuant to F.S. Chapter 373 and the Florida
Administrative Code.
   (C)   Request for determination of boundaries. A developer shall obtain a
determination of the boundaries of a wetland protection zone by contacting the
appropriate regulatory agency or through an environmental surveyor/engineer.
Water Management District and Florida Department of Environmental Regulation
permits will be required prior to submittal of development plans, where
required by law. An aerial photograph and site plan of the proposed development
area must be submitted to the city showing the wetland boundary. The regulatory
agency’s wetland boundaries must be shown on the preliminary subdivision site
plan to determine the most landward extent of the wetlands. Soil reports shall
be required at submission of final subdivision. Number and location of soil
borings will be determined by consultation with city staff. All survey and
boundary data shall be of the same year that any application to the city is
made.
(Ord. 538, passed 2-21-91; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
§ 160.04 DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY WITHIN WETLAND PROTECTION ZONES.
   (A)   Except as expressly provided herein, no development activity shall be
undertaken in a Wetland Protection Zone.
   (B)   The following uses and activities are presumed to have an
insignificant adverse effect on Wetland Protection Zones, and will be permitted
without specific approval of the City Commission:
      (1)   Scenic, historic, wildlife or scientific preserves;
      (2)   Boardwalks provided they are no greater than 150 feet in length, no
greater than five feet in width and require no tree removal;
      (3)   A “wetland stormwater discharge facility” developed in accordance
with state permits; and
      (4)   Walking trails in established hardwood hammocks provided no tree
removal required.
   (C)   Special uses, water dependent activities. Designated water dependent
activities that are otherwise prohibited may be allowed if the developer shows
the public benefits of the activity substantially outweigh the adverse
environmental effects on the wetland area.
(Ord. 538, passed 2-21-91; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
§ 160.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR WETLAND PROTECTION ZONES AND FOR LAND
ADJACENT TO WETLAND PROTECTION ZONES.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Environmental Buffer Zone adjacent to each
Wetland Protection Zone. This zone shall encompass all land within 25 feet
landward of the boundary of the Wetland Protection Zone to include any part of
the Special Flood Hazard Area that extends beyond the Wetland Protection Zone.
   (B)   The Wetland Protection Zone shall be dedicated as a conservation
easement pursuant to F.S. Ch. 704.06 prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the primary structure.
   (C)   Development standards and minimum submittal requirements.
      (1)   The acreage within a Wetland Protection Zone may not be used to
determine the total allowable units, density, or square footage of development
that may be allowed on a site containing all or part of such zone.
      (2)   The following special design standards apply to Environmental
Buffer Zones and land adjacent to Wetland Protection Zones:
         (a)   Minimum lot size shall be at least the minimum for the zoning
district where the development is located, not to include land within the
Wetland Protection Zone, unless the property is lot of records as defined in §
154.09 and further described in § 154.10(C).
         (b)   All commercial development must maintain a 200-foot setback from
the Environmental Buffer Zone.
         (c)   The developer shall completely restore any portion of a Wetland
Protection Zone or Environmental Buffer Zone damaged during construction.
Complete restoration means that the damaged area shall, within two years, be
operating as effectively as the natural system did prior to being damaged.
         (d)   The landward edge of the Environmental Buffer Zone should be
flagged or otherwise noted as a no construction zone through signage installed
by the developer.
         (e)   Turbidity barriers and silt screens shall be installed along the
landward edge of the Environmental Buffer Zone prior to site construction.
These barriers and screens shall be inspected by the City Engineer or designee
after installation.
         (f)   Sanitary sewer systems should be used when developing property
adjacent to the Wetland Protection Zone. If sanitary sewer is not available as
defined in § 50.001, septic tanks may be used but must be at least 200 feet
from the Wetland Protection Zone. If this setback is not possible in the
opinion of the Administrative Official due to lot size outside of the WPZ or
EBZ, a Department of Health approved aerobic treatment system shall be used.
         (g)   Other reasonable protective measures necessary to prevent
significant adverse effects on the Wetland Protection Zone may be required by
the city. Protective measures may include but are not limited to:
            1.    Maintaining natural drainage patterns;
            2.   Limiting the removal of vegetation to the minimum necessary to
carry out the development activity;
            3.    Expeditiously replanting denatured areas;
            4.    Constructing channels at minimum depth and width necessary to
achieve their intended purposes to prevent slumping and erosion and allow re-
vegetation of banks;
            5.    Designing, locating, constructing and maintaining all
development in a manner that minimizes environmental damage; and
            6.   Using deed restrictions, developer agreements and other legal
mechanisms to require the developer and successors to protect the
environmentally- sensitive areas and maintain the development in compliance
with these protective measures.
            7.    Driveways shall meet the setback requirements of the main
structures as defined by the zoning district of the parcel. This does not
include the driveway apron.
      (3)   The following documents shall be submitted to the city when a
developer applies for a land use approval for a property that is encumbered by
a Wetland Protection Zone. Additional documentation may be requested by the
city.
         (a)   Legal description of the property, and size of parcel in acres
or square feet.
         (b)   Three signed and sealed copies of the development plan, drawn to
a reasonable scale, prepared by a Florida-licensed land surveyor. This
development plan must show the following information at a minimum:
            1.   Limits of the Wetland Protection Zone as defined by § 160.03.
            2.   Limits of 100-year floodplain, if applicable.
            3.    Topographic information delineated as one foot contour
intervals.
            4.   Location of the proposed improvements, including setback
dimensions from the Wetland Protection Zone, any flood plains, and property
lines.
            5.   Tree survey showing the location of all trees on site which
are a minimum of six inches in diameter measured approximately three feet above
the ground designating the trees to be retained, removed, relocated, or
replaced. Smaller trees to be retained may also be shown by the applicant to
assist the Arbor Inspector in determining replacement requirements. Groups of
trees in close proximity may be designated as “clumps” of trees with the
estimated number and type of trees noted. Trees with a diameter of 24 inches
and greater shall be identified by type, height, diameter and canopy spread.
Trees to be removed, relocated, or replaced must be named (common or botanical
name) on the plan. A general description of existing vegetation on the tract
shall also be provided.
         (c)   Approval from the Seminole County Department of Health for
location and design of septic tank, if applicable.
         (d)   A drainage plan which includes an engineering plan and
specifications, in accordance with Appendix C of Chapter 155, for the
collection and treatment of storm drainage, including a description of the
preservation of any natural features, such as lakes and streams, or other
natural features. The purpose of the drainage plan is to show how all drainage
will be retained on site without impacting neighboring properties.
(Ord. 538, passed 2-21-91; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
§ 160.06 VARIANCES TO THIS CHAPTER.
   Variances to the requirements outlined in the chapter shall be heard by the
City Commission, on recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Board, as
outlined in § 154.25.
(Ord. 1505, passed 5-1-14; Am. Ord. 1614, passed 10-3-19)
CHAPTER 161: CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT
AND CONSISTENCY DETERMINATION
Section
   
161.01   Purpose; intent
   
161.02   Definitions
   
161.03   Concurrency
   
161.04   Concurrency base line statement and monitoring system
   
161.05   Preliminary and final development orders
   
161.06   Concurrency test requirements
   
161.07   Concurrency management/concurrency reservation application procedures
   
161.08   Exemptions from concurrency test
   
161.09   Fees
   
161.10   Enforcement
   
161.11   Appeals
   
161.12   Extensions
   
161.13   Proportionate fair-share mitigation
§ 161.01 PURPOSES INTENT.
   Pursuant to F.S. § 163.3177(10)(h), public facilities and services needed to
support development shall be available concurrent with the impacts of such
development. The Florida Administrative Rule implementing this Statute, Rule
9J-5.0055, mandates the adoption of concurrency management systems by a local
government to ensure that the level of service standards adopted through the
Comprehensive Plan are maintained. Concurrency is a finding that the public
facilities and services necessary to support a proposed development are
available, or will be made available, concurrent with the impact of
development. The provisions of this Appendix are designed to provide a
systematic process for the review and evaluation of all proposed development
for its impact on basic public facilities and services in order to meet the
requirements of statutory concurrency requirements.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Person who applies to the city for a Development Order.
   AVAILABLE CAPACITY. Capacity which can be encumbered or reserved by or
committed to future users of a public facility or service.
   CAPACITY. The ability or availability of a public service or facility to
accommodate users, expressed in an appropriate unit of measure, such as gallons
per day or peak hour traffic volumes.
   CERTIFICATE OF CAPACITY. The document issued by the city indicating the
quantity of public facilities that are available and reserved for the property
described in the certificate, including any limits on uses, densities, and
intensities of the approved development of the property, and containing an
expiration date.
   CONCURRENCY. The presence of adequate public facilities that meet the
adopted level of service standard or will be available either no later than the
impact of development, or within one year of the impact of development
depending on the type of facility.
   CONCURRENCY TEST. A comparison of the development's impact on public
facilities to the capacity of public facilities that are, or will be, available
no later than the impacts of development, or within one year of the impact of
development, depending on the type of facility.
   DEVELOPMENT. See F.S. Ch. 380.04.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER. Any order, permit or other official action of the city
granting, or granting with conditions an application for development.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMITS. Single family and duplex residences, new non-
residential/multi-family (greater than duplexes), all other new construction,
all commercial interiors, site work-infrastructure permit, demolition/house
moving, foundation, additions (commercial, multi-family and all other non-
residential), and any other permits designated by the city from time to time as
development permits.
   ENCUMBERED CAPACITY. Capacity for a project which is "set aside" for a
limited amount of time (while the project is under review or connected to the
time-frame underlying a preliminary development order).
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER.
      (A)   Development of regional impact (DRI);
      (B)   All development permits except those exempted permits;
      (C)   Site plan; and
      (D)   Final subdivision plan and plat.
   IMPACT OF DEVELOPMENT. For purposes of concurrency, the impact of
development shall be determined to occur at the time the building permit is
issued.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARD. The number of units of capacity per unit of
demand adopted by the city in the Comprehensive Plan.
   MINIMAL IMPACT. A change in a use or development up to 1,000 square foot
building expansion and that generates fewer than 20 additional trips per day. A
minimal designation runs with the land for each parcel for which it is granted.
A subsequent revision of such a parcel does not entitle subdivided lots to
minimal exemptions in excess of the total exemption granted to the original
parcel.
   MONTH. For the purposes of this chapter, one month is determined to be
30.417 days.
   NON-CONCURRENCY AFFIDAVIT. A document signed by an applicant which defers
the application for a certificate of capacity, and the concurrency test,
acknowledges that future rights to develop the property are subject to the
deferred concurrency test, and acknowledges that no vested rights have been
granted by the City or acquired by the applicant without such a test.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Roads, potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste,
drainage, public parks.
   RESERVED CAPACITY. Capacity which is removed from the "available capacity"
list and is allocated to a particular project or parcel of land.
   VESTED. Having the right to develop or continue development notwithstanding
the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.03 CONCURRENCY.
   No final development order shall be issued by the city after March 31, 1993
and no previously approved development may cause a change in use upon a parcel
of property unless there is sufficient available capacity of concurrency public
facilities to meet the standards for levels of service as established in the
1991 Lake Mary Comprehensive Plan for the existing population, vested
development as projected by the Planning Department and for the proposed
development according to the following time requirements:
      (1)   As to potable water, sanitary sewer, solid waste and drainage
concurrency public facilities, the necessary concurrency public facilities must
be:
         (a)   Available and in place at the time the development is authorized
in accordance with the 1991 Lake Mary Comprehensive Plan, or
         (b)   The development order or permit is issued subject to the
condition that the necessary concurrency public facilities will be in place
when the impacts of the development occur, or
         (c)   The necessary concurrency public facilities are under
construction at the time the development is authorized, or
         (d)   The necessary concurrency public facilities are guaranteed in an
enforceable development agreement that requires that the necessary facilities
will be in place when the impacts of development occur. All final development
orders shall be conditioned on the requirement that building permits shall not
be issued for the subject property until the capacity of the public facility or
facilities set forth in this division (A) meet the adopted levels of service
standards for said concurrency public facility or facilities. As to solid
waste, the level of service standard shall be a citywide standard. As to
stormwater management, the level of service standard shall be a site specific
standard. As to potable water and sanitary sewer, the level of service standard
shall be based upon the appropriate service areas as set forth in the 1991 Lake
Mary Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   As to arterial and collector roads, said concurrency public
facilities must be available within one year of the subject final development
order or consistent with provisions of Rule 9J-5.0055(2)(c), Florida
Administrative Code, as same may be amended from time to time. Any proposed
development requiring access to a county road will be required to receive
concurrency approval from Seminole County prior to issuance of a final
development order. Any development not accessing a county road will be required
to conduct a traffic study provided the development generates more than 50 peak
hour daily trips. No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until the above
public facilities are in place and accepted by the governing jurisdiction or a
development agreement with appropriate financial protection has been adopted by
the City Commission.
      (3)   Community and neighborhood parks, including land and facilities,
must be available to serve the development within 12 months of the issuance of
the subject final development order. The parks and recreation level of service
standard shall be a citywide standard.
      (4)   On site potable water wells and septic tanks which meet all
applicable laws, rules, standards and regulations shall be deemed to be
concurrent for the purposes of this section as to potable water and sanitary
sewer concurrency public facility level of service requirements; provided,
however, this provision shall not be construed to limit the city's authority to
require central potable water and sanitary sewer services as a condition of
development approval.
   (B)   Approved plans of development which are specifically exempted from or
specifically determined to be vested from the concurrency requirements of the
1991 Lake Mary Comprehensive Plan by the city pursuant to applicable ordinances
shall not be subject to concurrency review unless the exemption or vesting has
been eliminated, waived, expired or withdrawn pursuant to law or has otherwise
lapsed and thereby having become of no further force nor effect.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may use the concurrency review process
to account for the impacts upon and utilization of concurrency public
facilities by vested developments.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.04 CONCURRENCY BASE LINE STATEMENT AND MONITORING SYSTEM.
   (A)   On or before October 1 of each year, the Planning Department shall
develop a concurrency public facility base line statement which shall be
effective for one year after its issuance. Nothing herein precludes, however,
the issuance and effectiveness of more frequent amendments to concurrency base
line statement by the Planning Department.
   (B)   The Planning Department shall establish and maintain a concurrency
management monitoring system for purposes of monitoring the status and
available capacity of concurrency public facilities which consists of an
inventory of concurrency public facility capacity and a demand accounting
system that will reflect the current status and availability of concurrency
public facilities.
   (C)   Various reports will be produced, either on computer terminal screen
displays or in printed reports. The system itself (data bases and formulas)
will not be physically accessible to the public in order to protect the
integrity of the data. Copies of the data base and formulas will be deemed
public records. Summary reports may be published in printed form for public
viewing.
   (D)   Upon payment of the established administrative fee, applicants may
request an informal inquiry into the concurrency management system for the
applicant's purposes. The city shall continue to maintain public records
available to the public consistent with the provisions of F.S. Ch. 119.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.05 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL DEVELOPMENT ORDERS.
   (A)   Development orders and development permits are designated preliminary
or final under the development review process, as delineated below:
Type I      Preliminary (No Concurrency Test. Capacity Reservation Not
Available.)
      1.   Variance
      2.   Abandonment
Type II   Preliminary (Internal Concurrency Test. Capacity Reservation
Optional.)
      1.   Plan amendment
      2.   Rezoning
Type III   Preliminary (Concurrency Test/Encumbrance. Capacity Reservation
Available at Applicant's Option.
      1.   Preliminary subdivision plan
      2.   Conditional use
Type IV   Final (Concurrency Test/Capacity Reservation Required)
      1.   DRI
      2.   All development permits except as exempted in §
161.08
      3.   Final site plan
      4.   Final subdivision plan and plat
   (B)   Each applicant for a Type IV final development order, except as
provided in §
161.08 shall pay the appropriate concurrency reservation fees and apply for a
Certificate of Capacity.
   (C)   Each applicant for a Type II or Type III Preliminary Development
Order: Concurrency option, except as provided in §
161.08 shall elect one of the following options:
      (1)   Pay the capacity reservation fee and apply for a certificate of
capacity; or
      (2)   Execute a nonconcurrency affidavit.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.06 CONCURRENCY TEST REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall perform a concurrency test for each development
application, except as provided in §
161.08. The Planning Department shall be responsible for conducting all
concurrency tests as required by this article. Concurrency test shall be
initiated upon receipt of a concurrency test application form provided by the
city, accompanied by the appropriate non-refundable application fee.
   (B)   Each development application will be reviewed on a first-come, first-
served basis. As each application is reviewed, capacity that is available will
be encumbered until the final disposition of the application is determined. If
the application is approved, the reservation becomes permanent upon payment of
the capacity reservation fee (see §
161.09). If the application is denied, the temporary reservation returns to the
pool of capacity. If an application cannot be approved because of encumbrances
preceding it, the application will be returned to the applicant unless the city
determines that it can supersede an earlier application according to the
following procedure. An application that ready for final disposition can
supersede or "advance over" the temporary reservation by an application ahead
of it upon early payment of the capacity reservation fee. There are three
criteria which restrict the ability to "advance over":
      (1)   Applicants cannot "advance over" applicants that have been in the
system less than six months;
      (2)   An applicant can be "advanced over" only after written notice has
been given to all preceding applicants, and they have received ten working days
to pay reservation fees and complete the concurrency review process;
       (3)   Applicants for affordable housing;
      (4)   Redevelopment in Lake Mary Towne Square cannot be "advanced over"
if the application has been in the system less than 12 months.
   (C)   For development that requires one or more public facilities provided
by entities other than the city, the city shall condition the issuance of any
final development order for the same parcel on the availability of such public
facilities.
   (D)   If the capacity of available public facilities is equal to or greater
than the capacity required to maintain the level of service standard for the
impact of development, the concurrency test is passed.
   (E)   If the capacity of available public facilities is less than the impact
of the development, the concurrency test is not passed and the applicant shall
select one or the following options:
      (1)   Accept a one month encumbrance of public facilities that are
available, and within the same month amend the application to reduce the need
for public facilities to the capacity that is available;
      (2)   Accept a one month encumbrance of public facilities that are
available, and within the same month arrange to provide for public facilities
that are not otherwise available;
      (3)   Reapply for a certificate of capacity not less than six months
following the denial of an application for a certificate of capacity; or
      (4)   Appeal the denial of the application for a certificate of capacity,
pursuant to the provisions of § 161.011.
   (F)   If no option under division (E) above exercised by the applicant, then
the application shall be deemed abandoned and all right to review a reservation
shall be waived.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.07 CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT/CONCURRENCY RESERVATION APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Capacity of public facilities for a project will move from the
encumbered status to the reserved status for final development orders that pass
the concurrency test and satisfy payment of capacity reservation fees. Capacity
is encumbered for Type III preliminary development orders during the
application process. Capacity is reserved for Type II and Type III preliminary
development orders that meet concurrency and pay capacity reservation fees.
   (B)   The city has specific time limits for most types of development
orders, and the capacity certificate will be valid for the same period of time
as the underlying development order. Development orders will have capacity
reserved for the following time periods:
   Time Limits on Capacity Reservations for Concurrency
Type of D.O. D.O. Expire Capacity Reservation Period
Type of D.O.          D.O. Expire          Capacity Reservation Period
Type I. Preliminary D.O.
Variance              6 months             NA
Abandonment           unlimited            NA
Type II. Preliminary - Capacity Reservation Optional Plan
Amendment             unlimited            NA/1 year
Rezoning              unlimited            NA/1 year
Type III. Preliminary - Encumbrance/Capacity Reservation Optional
Preliminary Sub. Plan 1 year               1 year
Conditional Use       1 year               1 year
Type IV Final Concurrency Test - Capacity Reservation Required
DRI                   as specified in D.O.
All permits           6 months             6 mo./1 yr.
Site plan             12 months            12 months
Towne Square Project  18 months            18 months
Final Sub. and Plat   Same as Site Plan
 
   (C)   The city concurrency management/concurrency reservation application
program is comprised of five steps, as outlined below:
      (1)   Step 1. Concurrency application (optional). Upon payment of the
review fee, the city will conduct a concurrency test which will be good for two
months. Utilizing this step will allow an applicant up to two months to submit
plans. Capacity will be determined for maximum or specified uses, proposed
development, or densities and intensities.
      (2)   Step 2. Formal development application. Either a preliminary or
final plan is submitted to the city, along with the appropriate application
review fee. Capacity for the project is placed in the "encumbered" status while
under review. Concurrency review will take place concurrent with development
review.
      (3)   Step 3. Preliminary plan approval. Capacity for the project will
either be encumbered for three months from the preliminary plan approval date,
reserved for one year upon payment of the capacity reservation fees, or denied.
         (a)   In either steps (1), (2) or (3), the applicant has the option to
move capacity out of the encumbered status into the reserved status by payment
of the capacity reservation fees.
      (4)   Step 4. Final plan approval. Payment of the reservation fees are
due within three months of the final approval. When the fees are not paid in a
timely manner, the approval is null and void. Upon payment of the reservation
fees, the final development order and certificate of capacity is issued.
      (5)   Step 5. Building permit. The building permit is applied for and all
development fees, connection fees, and impact fees, including statement for
county fees must be paid within the application time deadline.
   (D)   The process for each type of preliminary or final development order is
outlined below:
Type I      Preliminary Development Order - Variance or Abandonment.
      1.   Submit application.
      2.   No concurrency test.
      3.   Capacity reservation not available.
Type II   Preliminary Development Order. Rezoning or Comprehensive Plan
Amendment.
      1.   Submit concurrency and other applicable application and pay
application review fee.
      2.   Internal concurrency test.
      3.   Capacity determined for maximum or specified uses, densities and
intensities.
      4.   Encumbrance or reservation option:
         a.   Capacity encumbered while plan amendment or rezoning is under
review.
         b.   Capacity reservation at applicant's option. No development order
or certificate of capacity is issued.
         c.   If applicant chooses not to reserve capacity, an affidavit is
signed acknowledging that future rights to develop the property are subject to
future concurrency and no rights have been granted by the city or acquired by
the applicant.
Type III   Preliminary Development Order - Preliminary Subdivision Plan or
Conditional Use.
      1.   Submit concurrency application and pay application review fee.
      2.   Concurrency test/Encumbrance.
      3.   Capacity determined for maximum or specified uses, densities and
intensities.
      4.   Encumbrance and reservation option:
         a.   Capacity encumbered while plan is under review. Following
approval capacity will be encumbered for an additional 90 days to allow for
final plan submission. No certificate of capacity is issued.
         b.   Capacity reservation at applicant's option. Capacity reservation
fees are paid.
         c.   If applicant chooses not to reserve capacity, an affidavit is
signed acknowledging that future rights to develop the property are subject to
future concurrency and no rights have been granted by the city or acquired by
the applicant.
      5.   Submit preliminary subdivision or conditional use application as
specified within 90 days. Steps 1 - 4 above may be conducted as part of the
preliminary subdivision or conditional use procedures.
Type IV   Final Development Order.
      1.   Submit concurrency application.
      2.   Concurrency test/encumbrance.
      3.   Capacity determined for specified uses, densities and/or
intensities.
      4.   Encumbrance and reservation option:
         a.   Encumbrance while plan is under review.
         b.   Capacity reservation fee must be paid prior to issuance of final
development order.
         c.   Capacity reservation fees are due within 90 days after final
approval of capacity reservation, or approval is null and void.
         d.   Final development order issued and certificate of capacity are
released following payment of capacity reservation fee.
      5.   Submit final subdivision, site plan, or DRI application as
specified. Steps 1 - 4 above may be conducted as part of the final subdivision,
site plan or DRI application.
      6.   Concurrency determination analysis is required only once, provided
all applicable deadlines are met.
      7.   Projects can obtain site development permits for new construction
without obtaining building permits. Site work permits (site work is
installation of infrastructure) will not be considered to expand or extend the
capacity reservation. A capacity reservation is not, by issuance of a site
development permit, extended and the applicant will need to seek such
extensions as necessary if the capacity reservation will expire prior to
receipt of all development approvals.
      8.   The city will specifically identify its conditions of approval of
the capacity reservation application within an enforceable development
agreement or binding contract, including necessary off-site infrastructure or
facility improvements that are needed to support the project, whether or not
the needed facility is public or private.
         Approved subdivisions will be allowed to plat only those lots for
which capacity reservation fees have been paid. If the applicant cannot
purchase capacity for all lots within the subdivision, the applicant may enter
into a development schedule for the unplatted lots stipulating the following:
         a.   Schedule for phasing of remaining lots
         b.   Agreement to pay reservation fees for each phase as it is platted
         c.   The Final Subdivision plan shall show all proposed phase lines
and areas without reservation of capacity shall remain as unplatted tracts
within the subdivision.
         The applicant may convert the non-binding schedule into capacity by
paying fees and passing the appropriate concurrency tests. Submittal of a non-
binding schedule shall not constitute a vesting of entitlement to capacity, a
reservation of capacity, or guarantee of available capacity.
      9.   After final plan approval, recording of plat and receipt of
performance bond, the city will prepare the final development order. The final
development order and certificate of capacity will be released to the
appropriate party following payment of the capacity reservation fee and
submittal of all applicable documents related to the development. If payment is
not received within 90 days after final approval, approval will be null and
void.
      10.   If a concurrency public facility to be provided by an applicant is
not available at the time of the development's impacts upon concurrency public
facilities, further development will cease and no further building permits
issued or inspections performed, until all required concurrency public
facilities are constructed. If a concurrency public facility to be provided by
an applicant is included in a binding but the construction is behind
development can continue, but no releases for final electrical service or
certificates of occupancy will be issued until the facility has been accepted
or approved by the city. If, however, a concurrency public facility is to be
provided by the city and is not completed on time, development can continue
within the conditions in the development order; provided, however, that no
certificates of occupancy or releases for final electrical service will be
issued until potable water, sanitary sewer and solid waste capacity are
available.
      11.   Certificates of concurrency are not transferable to another parcel
or parcels of real property. Certificates of concurrency shall benefit and run
with the parcel of real property to which the application related, subject to
the limits prescribed in this part, and shall contain detailed information
relating to limitations on uses and development densities and intensities.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM CONCURRENCY TEST.
   (A)   The following development orders and permits are exempt from this
chapter, and may commence development without a certificate of capacity:
      (1)   Any addition to a residence;
      (2)   Interior completion of a shell-only structure for uses with same or
less intensity as identified on an approved site plan;
      (3)   Interior renovations with no change in use;
      (4)   Accessory structure to a residence;
      (5)   Storage addition to a non-residential use;
      (6)   Replacement structure except for a nonconforming use in accordance
with Land Development Code provisions on nonconforming uses;
      (7)   Temporary construction trailers;
      (8)   Wells and septic tanks;
      (9)   Driveway or resurfacing, parking lot paving;
      (10)   Re-roofing of structures;
      (11)   Demolitions;
      (12)   Occupational license for a change in tenant space similar to the
previous business tenant in that space;
      (13)   Single family and duplex residences on lots which were platted or
existing prior to January 1, 1993, provided that:
         (a)   All such exemptions expire on January 1, 1998; and
         (b)   Capacities must be accounted for during the once per year
cumulative draw down;
      (14)   The following items:
         (a)   Public utility and service structures;
         (b)   Attached or detached guest house to a residence;
         (c)   Accessory parking for passenger vehicles when intended for a
permitted adjacent commercial use.
      (15)   Development permits including, specifically, building permits,
which do not require an additional final development order prior to their
issuance shall not require a concurrency review as a condition of issuance of
the said permits.
      (16)   Sign permits.
   (B)   In order to monitor the cumulative effect on a capacity of public
facilities, a concurrency test shall be performed for the following development
orders that will be able to receive their certificate of capacity upon payment
of fees regardless of the results of their concurrency test.
      (1)   Development that creates minimal impacts on public facilities. The
term minimal impact refers to either a change in use or a building expansion up
to 1,000 square feet in size that generates fewer than 20 additional vehicle
trips per day. Other expansions and redevelopment that were not disclosed in
original applications will not be exempt as minimal unless the combined trip
generation of the original development and all subsequent expansions and
redevelopments are less than a minimal threshold.
      (2)   Single-family and duplex residences on lots which were platted or
existed prior to January 1, 1993, which receive exemptions from the
requirements of this chapter pursuant to division (A)(13) above. Such
exemptions expire on October 1, 1998.
      (3)   Development that is determined to be vested.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.09 FEES.
   (A)   The City Commission shall establish from time to time by the adoption
of resolutions the fees required by this part. The fees shall provide for the
costs relating to the review and analysis related to applications including,
but not limited to, city staff time and expenses resulting from the review of
matters such as, by way of example and not limitation, calculations, traffic
studies or mitigation studies presented to the city by an applicant.
   (B)   Fees shall be established for concurrency review determinations for
each concurrency review application which fees shall be paid at the time of the
filing of the application.
   (C)   Fees shall also be established to provide for the recovery of costs to
the city relating to informal inquiries relating to matters involving the
concurrency management system. Fees for raw data (public records) shall be
charged in accordance with the provisions of F.S. Ch. 119, or its successor
provision, as implemented by the city.
   (D)   Fees shall also be established for appeals, administrative
determinations and the extension of certificates of concurrency resulting from
the approval of extending final development orders or the extension of a final
development order.
   (E)   The city shall establish by resolution, fees for concurrency testing,
both formal and informal, for inquiries which require substantially the same
research as a full scale concurrency test; for time required to review
alternative demand data which an applicant may provide as well as any traffic
studies or mitigation plans which an applicant requests be reviewed as part of
a concurrency test; for administrative costs for extending capacity reservation
time limits resulting from the approval of an extension of a development order;
and for capacity reservations. The capacity reservation fee payment schedule
for commercial/residential projects and/or building permits shall be the
equivalent of all development fees required to complete the project including,
but not limited to, impact fees, connection charges, and all associated
building permit and site development fees.
   (F)   Payment of capacity reservation fees is due within 90 days after
issuance of a Type IV final development order or preliminary development order
which has a capacity reservation. If payment is not received by the Planning
Department within said 90 days, the capacity reservation approval is null and
void.
   (G)   Projects determined to be vested by the vested rights ordinance or by
judicial decree and concurrency exempt projects do not pay capacity reservation
fees. Such projects in possession of a final development order will be able to
obtain permits without any reservation prepayment of development fees.
   (H)   The capacity reservation fees are only for city development and
building fees and are not for any other fees assessed by Seminole County for
roads and schools or other state or federal fees attached to the issuance of a
building or development payment.
   (I)   For each concurrency public facility the facility reservation fee
shall apply to all development and shall be an amount equivalent to the then
applicable Lake Mary Impact Fee for each concurrency facility type. All impact
fees shall be required to be assessed and paid as a condition of receiving a
building permit pursuant to the impact fee rate schedules in effect at the time
a building permit is issued. However, each facility reservation fee is a per
unit fixed-dollar deduction from the applicable impact fee in place at the time
of building permit issuance.
   (J)   At the time of the issuance of a final development order, all of the
fees must be paid; provided, however, that if a development order provides that
the final development order is not effective until a preconstruction conference
occurs, the fees may be delayed until that date; provided further, that if the
fees are not paid, the development order shall be null and void and of no
further force or effect.
   (K)   If a final development order is not issued, expires or is surrendered
pursuant to an amending development order issued by the city or an amending
development agreement, an applicant may request in writing and the city shall
issue a refund of facility reservation fees if the appropriate following
condition is met:
   (L)   For all concurrency public facilities, capacity shall be surrendered,
and thereupon a refund shall be made by the city at the occurrence of the
following event: a determination has been made by the Public Works Director
that such refund will not require or result in the elimination, deferral or
delay of a project which is needed to maintain adopted level of service
standards and which is listed in the adopted Capital Improvements Element
schedule of improvements.
   (M)   The following special treatments of the capacity reservation fee will
apply:
      (1)   Affordable housing. Exempt from paying capacity reservation fees
for 12 months.
      (2)   Redevelopment in Towne Square Development Area. Exempt from paying
a capacity reservation fee for 12 months.
      (3)   Development by a public sector or organization (city, county or
schools). Exempt from all concurrency fees.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall be enforced by the Planning
Department. Whenever the Planning Department determines that a violation of
this chapter has occurred or is occurring, the Planning Department shall issue
written notice to any persons believed to be in violation, identifying the
nature and location of the violation and specifying the remedial actions
required to bring the violation into compliance. Such alleged violations may be
brought before the City Code Enforcement Board or otherwise enforced in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Planning Department shall have the authority to immediately issue
a Stop Work Order if it is found that the application intentionally provided
incorrect or inaccurate information in order to obtain a certificate of
concurrency or factual circumstances demonstrate that development is occurring
without a certificate of concurrency.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   An applicant may appeal a denial of a certificate of capacity on three
grounds:
      (1)   A technical error;
      (2)   The applicant provided alternative data or a traffic mitigation
plan that was rejected by the city;
      (3)   The appeal of denial of a certificate of capacity shall be filed in
writing within 15 days of the date of denial with the Planning Department. A
recommendation will be formulated by the Planning Department with regard to the
appeal and transmitted to the City Manager within 30 days of the receipt of
request for appeal. A final decision will be made by the City Manager within 15
days upon receipt of the staff recommendation. Appeal of a denial of
certificate of capacity by the City Manager shall be made requesting a hearing
before the City Commission. The appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 30 days of denial by the City Manager. Appeal of denial by the City
Commission can be made by filing a petition to the Circuit Court of Seminole
County, Florida, pursuant to F.S. § 1.630 as same may be amended from time to
time, within 30 days of the date of notice of denial by the City Commission.
   (C)   If an applicant is denied a development order on concurrency grounds,
they may not resubmit the same application for a period of six months from the
date the application was denied. If the applicant makes material or significant
reductions to the densities and intensities of use in the application, it may
be resubmitted at any time.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.12 EXTENSION.
   (A)   One 90-day extension may be granted between notification of the
results of the concurrency test for preliminary and final development orders
and submission of preliminary and final plans with a maximum amount of time
being 180 calendar days.
   (B)   One 90-day extension may be granted between the approval of the
preliminary development order and submission of the final development order
with a maximum amount of time being 180 calendar days.
   (C)   Capacity reservation period may be extended from time to time bases
upon the underlying development order.
(Ord. 633, passed 2-18-93)
§ 161.13 PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE MITIGATION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish a
method whereby the impacts of development on transportation facilities can be
mitigated by the cooperative efforts of the public and private sectors, to be
known as the Proportionate Fair-Share Program, as required by and in a manner
consistent with F.S. § 163.3180(16).
   (B)   Applicability. The Proportionate Fair-Share Program shall apply to all
developments in the city that impact a road segment in the city Concurrency
Management System and have been notified of a failure to achieve transportation
concurrency on a roadway segment or segments. The Proportionate Fair-Share
Program does not apply to developments of regional impact (DRIs) using
proportionate share under F.S. § 163.3180(12), developments meeting the de
minimus standards under F.S. § 163.3180(6) or to developments exempted from
concurrency as previously provided in this chapter.
   (C)   General requirements.  
      (1)   An applicant may choose to satisfy the transportation concurrency
requirements of the city by making a proportionate fair-share contribution,
pursuant to the following requirements:
         (a)   The proposed development is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and applicable land development regulations.
         (b)   The city five-year Capital Improvement Program includes
transportation improvement(s) that, upon completion, will accommodate
additional traffic generated by the proposed development.
      (2)   Any improvement project proposed to meet the developer’s fair-share
obligation must meet generally accepted design standards for the State of
Florida and the city.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   City staff shall notify an applicant in writing of a failure to
satisfy transportation concurrency requirements. Upon receipt of such notice,
applicants may submit a proposed proportionate fair-share calculation to the
Community Development Director or designee for review.
      (2)   Pursuant to F.S. § 163.3180(16)(e), proposed proportionate fair-
share mitigation for development impacts to facilities on the Strategic
Intermodal System requires the concurrence of the Florida Department of
Transportation (FDOT).
      (3)   The Community Development Director shall determine whether a
proportionate fair- share calculation is sufficient and eligible. Upon a
finding of sufficiency, a proportionate share agreement will be prepared
between the city and the applicant. The stipulations of the agreement shall
include, but not be limited to, the amount of payment, description of work and
timing of payment. Proportionate share agreements shall be approved and
executed by the City Commission.
   (E)   Determining proportionate fair-share obligation.
      (1)   Proportionate fair-share mitigation for concurrency impacts may
include, without limitation, separately or collectively, private funds,
contributions of land, and construction and/or contribution of transportation
improvements.
      (2)   A development may not be required to pay more than its
proportionate fair- share. The calculated value of the proportionate fair-share
mitigation for the impacted transportation facilities shall not differ
regardless of the method of mitigation.
      (3)   The methodology used to calculate an applicant’s proportionate
fair-share obligation shall be as provided in F.S. § 163.3180(12).
      (4)   For the purposes of determining proportionate share obligations,
the city shall determine improvement costs based upon the projected future cost
of the improvement as obtained from the Capital Improvements Program or another
method approved by the Community Development Director.
      (5)   The city has the option to accept right-of-way dedication for all
or a portion of the proportionate fair-share payment. Credit for the dedication
of the non-site related right-of-way shall be assigned a value by appropriate
city staff or, at the option of the applicant, by fair market value established
by an independent appraisal approved by the city and at no expense to the city.
The applicant shall supply a survey and legal description of the land and a
certificate of title or title search of the land to the city at no expense to
the city. If the estimated value of the right-of-way dedication proposed by the
applicant is less than the city estimated total proportionate fair-share
obligation for that development, then the applicant must also pay or provide
for mitigation of the difference.
   (F)   Impact fee credit for proportionate fair-share mitigation.
      (1)   Proportionate fair-share mitigation shall be applied as a credit
against impact fees if the proposed improvement is on the list of approved
projects in the most recent county impact fee ordinance and technical report.
Credits will be given for that portion of the impact fees that would have been
used to fund the improvements on which the proportionate fair-share
contribution is calculated. The portion of impact fees available for the credit
will be based on the historic distribution of impact fee funds to the arterial
roadways and collector roadways in the appropriate impact fee district. Impact
fee credits shall be calculated at the same time as the applicant’s
proportionate share obligation is calculated.
      (2)   Any road impact fee credit based upon proportionate fair-share
contributions for a proposed development cannot be transferred to any other
parcel or parcels within the county.
   (G)   Appropriation of fair-share revenues. Proportionate fair-share
revenues shall be placed in the appropriate project account for funding of
scheduled improvements in the city Capital Improvements Program.
(Ord. 1235, passed 12-7-06)
CHAPTER 162: CONSERVATION PROJECT
Section
   
162.01   Legislative intent; use of the Conservation Project by the public
   
162.02   Definitions
   
162.03   Hours of operation; access to and closure of the Conservation Project
   
162.04   Permitted uses on the Conservation Project
   
162.05   General provisions relating to use of the Conservation Project
   
162.06   Special authorization permits
   
162.07   Revenues generated from the Conservation Project; reports
   
162.99   Penalty
§ 162.01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT; USE OF THE CONSERVATION PROJECT BY THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulatory provisions
relating to the preservation and use of properties acquired or managed through
the City of Lake Mary Conservation Project (also referred to as "The
Conservation Project"). The City of Lake Mary desires to preserve and manage
environmentally sensitive areas for their ecological value and the education of
present and future citizens.
   (B)   The City of Lake Mary does not, by providing any of The Conservation
Project for outdoor educational purposes, extend any assurance that such areas
or lands are safe for any purpose. Users of The Conservation Project take upon
themselves the risks inherent in using undeveloped natural properties and the
resulting and proximate events and conditions arising from the use of these
wild and scenic lands.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter nor any resolution adopted pursuant
to this chapter shall be deemed to conflict with or preempt the city's Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
§ 162.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CONSERVATION LANDS." Properties purchased or otherwise acquired or managed
under the City of Lake Mary Conservation Project. Said properties shall be
described in resolutions subsequently adopted by the City Commission of the
City of Lake Mary, which resolutions may be amended from time to time as The
Conservation Project inventory changes.
   "EXOTIC SPECIES."
      (1)   A species of plant as defined by Rule 14-40.002, Florida
Administrative Code, and as defined by Rule 62-312.310, Florida Administrative
Code.
      (2)   A species of animal not native to the area it is found in.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any self-propelled vehicle as defined in F.S. § 316.003
(75).
   "RESTORATION." To return back to a natural or preexisting condition.
   "SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION PERMIT." Written permission granted by the city to an
individual or any group of individuals associated with an organization such as
a school, club or scout troop to partake in an authorized activity on The
Conservation Project.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
§ 162.03 HOURS OF OPERATION; ACCESS TO AND CLOSURE OF THE CONSERVATION PROJECT.
   (A)   The Conservation Lands in the Conservation Project will not be open
for public access unless posted otherwise. It is unlawful to access The
Conservation Project at an unauthorized time.
   (B)   The Conservation Project may be accessed only at city designated
access points at permitted times. It is unlawful to access The Conservation
Project at any place other than an access point posted by the city for access.
   (C)   The Conservation Project may be accessed only by permitted means.
Unless posted for vehicular access, it is unlawful to access The Conservation
Project by means of any motor vehicle or any other vehicle or to otherwise
access The Conservation Project by a means that is not posted for authorized
access.
   (D)   The Conservation Project may be closed for specific uses or all public
use by the City Manager or his or her designee during any emergency conditions
such as floods, severe weather, wildfire, prescribed burning, and during any
land management or maintenance activity or to protect the natural ecological
functions of said lands.
   (E)   The Conservation Project may be closed to the general public by the
City Manager or his or her designee during research, study, surveying, or data
collection events or activities.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
Penalty, see § 162.99
§ 162.04 PERMITTED USES ON THE CONSERVATION PROJECT.
   The city shall, by resolution, promulgate a management plan for each parcel
of Conservation Land. The management plan shall contain a list of acceptable
uses on each parcel of Conservation Land in The Conservation Project. The
promulgated list of acceptable uses shall be based on the particular piece of
Conservation Land and will address management philosophy and use restrictions
placed on the land by the land donors, if any. Consideration of the following
issues may be integrated into the management plan for each piece of land in The
Conservation Project:
   (A)   Physical and biological components of The Conservation Project area.
   (B)   Historical and recent land use.
   (C)   Local and regional significance of the land.
   (D)   Protection of natural resources.
   (E)   Need for habitat restoration.
   (F)   Use of prescribed burning.
   (G)   Security requirements.
   (H)   Relationship to adjacent land uses.
   (I)   Access.
   (J)   Environmentally acceptable opportunities to generate revenue to offset
management expenses.
   (K)   Management and control of exotic species.
   (L)   Potential and demand for educational uses.
   (M)   Potential use of caretakers for the beneficial and convenient
management of lands.
   (N)   Availability of the land for non-structural stormwater management
functions.
   (O)   Other functions that can be served by the parcel.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
Penalty, see § 162.99
§ 162.05 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO USE OF THE CONSERVATION PROJECT.
   (A)   The following provisions relate to all Conservation Lands in The
Conservation Project unless a specific management plan provides otherwise:
      (1)   Fishing. Recreational fishing is prohibited on The Conservation
Project unless allowed by signs and provided the appropriate permits from the
Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission are in possession of the user. It
is unlawful to fish on The Conservation Project unless a sign indicates that
fishing is allowed or to fish in a manner inconsistent with fishing
restrictions set forth on a sign.
      (2)   Hiking. Hiking is prohibited on The Conservation Project except
where allowed by signs. It is unlawful to hike on The Conservation Project in
an area unless a sign indicates that hiking is allowed.
      (3)   Camping. Camping is prohibited on The Conservation Project. It is
unlawful to camp on The Conservation Project.
      (4)   Horseback riding. Horseback riding is prohibited on The
Conservation Project. It is unlawful to ride horses on The Conservation
Project.
      (5)   Bicycling. Bicycle riding is prohibited on The Conservation
Project. It is unlawful to ride bicycles on The Conservation Project.
      (6)   Hunting and trapping. It is unlawful to hunt for game or non-game
animals, as defined in F.S. § 372.001, or trap game or non-game animals on The
Conservation Project except when authorized by a special authorization permit
for city initiated wildlife management purposes.
      (7)   Pets. Domestic animals are prohibited on The Conservation Project.
It is unlawful to possess a domestic animal on The Conservation Project.
      (8)   Swimming. Swimming is prohibited on The Conservation Project. It is
unlawful to swim on The Conservation Project.
      (9)   Plants and animals removal or disturbance. All plants and animals
on The Conservation Project are protected. It is unlawful to remove or destroy
plants or to remove, destroy or harass animals except when authorized by a
special authorization permit for city initiated programs such as exotic species
control, habitat restoration and other land or wild life management activities.
      (10)   Archeological and cultural resources. All cultural and
archeological resources on The Conservation Project are protected. It is
unlawful to remove, alter or destroy such resources except when authorized by a
special authorization permit.
      (11)   Waste disposal. It is unlawful to dump or dispose of litter, as
defined by F.S. § 403.413(2)(a), or discharge waste or any hazardous substance
on The Conservation Project.
      (12)   Destruction of facilities and equipment. It is unlawful to damage,
destroy, remove or disturb any city facilities or equipment on The Conservation
Project.
      (13)   Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person or entity to use or
explode any fireworks, as defined by F.S. § 791.01(4), on the Conservation
Project. This provision shall not prohibit any lawful use of fireworks
otherwise permitted under Chapter 791, Florida Statutes.
      (14)   Posting or distributing handbills or advertising material. It is
unlawful to circulate, distribute, post, place or erect any handbills,
circulars, notices, papers, advertisements, or signs on The Conservation
Project except when city initiated notices are placed or posted.
      (15)   Fires. It is unlawful to ignite or maintain any fire on The
Conservation Project except for city initiated controlled burns.
      (16)   Boating and canoeing. It is unlawful to launch or operate boats on
or from The Conservation Project unless permitted by the city as part of water
management activities.
      (17)   Introduction of plants and animals. It is unlawful to plant or
deposit any plant, seed or animal upon The Conservation Project unless
permitted by the city as part of land management activities.
      (18)   Use of vehicles, It is unlawful to possess or operate a motor
vehicle or any other vehicle on The Conservation Project outside of designated
parking areas unless authorized by special authorization permit or while
engaged in city initiated land management activities.
      (19)   Alcoholic beverages. It is unlawful to possess or consume
alcoholic beverages, as defined in F.S. § 561.01(4), on The Conservation
Project.
      (20)   Concessions and sales. It is unlawful to operate concessions on
The Conservation Project.
      (21)   Unauthorized facilities or structures. It is unlawful to construct
or erect any facility or structure on The Conservation Project unless
authorized by a special authorization permit or as part of a city initiated
land management activity.
   (B)   Other uses. All uses of The Conservation Project not specifically
addressed in this chapter are prohibited unless permission is granted after
development of a master plan for the particular Conservation Project parcel.
   (C)   Fees. The city, by resolution, shall establish a fee schedule relating
to the various permitted uses of The Conservation Project.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01; Am. Ord. 1457, passed 3-1-12) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.06 SPECIAL AUTHORIZATION PERMITS.
   Any person may apply for a special authorization permit issued by the city
to conduct activities specifically permitted by this chapter or set forth in
the list of approved uses promulgated by resolution of the city. In issuing a
Special Authorization Permit, the city shall require that the activity is
consistent with and furthers the adopted management plan for the particular
Conservation Land and the legislative intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
§ 162.07 REVENUES GENERATED FROM THE CONSERVATION PROJECT; REPORTS.
   (A)   Any revenues generated from the use of The Conservation Project shall
be used to offset land management expenses relating to The Conservation Project
program to the maximum extent practicable.
   (B)   The City Manager shall issue an annual report relating to all elements
set forth in this chapter with regard to the operations of The Conservation
Project.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
§ 162.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be punished in
accordance with § 10.99 of the City of Lake Mary Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1030, passed 8-16-01)
CHAPTER 163: BUILDING, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, FIRE PREVENTION AND MISCELLANEOUS
FEES
Section
   
163.01   Intent
   
163.02   Building fees
   
163.03   Community Development Department land development fees
   
163.04   Fire prevention fees
   
163.05   Other miscellaneous fees
   
163.06   References
   
163.07   Amendment of fees
§ 163.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to include all fees which are required for
building, community development, fire prevention and miscellaneous fees.
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
§ 163.02 BUILDING FEES.
   (A)   Building permit fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE           FEE
Application    0.075% of the documented value of construction with a $5 minimum. The
fee            application fee is non-refundable.
Permit fee     0.75% of the documented value of construction with a $35 minimum
Plan review    0.45% of the documented value of construction
fee
Inspection fee 0.45% of the documented value of construction
Surcharge fee:
Department of  As established by F.S. § 533.721 as may be amended from time to time
Community
Affairs (DCA)
Surcharge fee:
Building Code
Administrators As established by F.S. § 468.631 as may be amended from time to time
& Inspectors
Fund (BCAIB)
Manufactured
(modular)
buildings
(includes:     0.75% of the documented value of construction with a $150 minimum
foundation,
electrical,
plumbing &
mechanical)
Mobile/
manufactured
home
(includes:     0.75% of the documented value of construction with a $150 minimum
building,
electrical,
plumbing &
mechanical)
Building       $75
moving
Demolition of  $75 (no fee if condemned by the city or used in Fire or Police Department
structure      training)
               Businesses which transport certain solid waste as an integral part of their
Transporting   occupation may obtain a license to transport those wastes in lieu of utilizing
of solid waste the city’s solid waste franchise collector—payment is made at the time of
              payment of building permit (per §
               91.44).
                
Reroofing      $10
Demolition     $50
Land clearing  $50
Minor repairs
may be exempt
from permit
fee
requirements,
if, in the
opinion of the
Building
Official,
those repairs
do not involve
structural,
electrical or
roof
modifications.
 
   (B)   Basis for determining construction value. The documented construction
value shall be a contract signed by the appropriate parties or a detailed
material and labor cost estimate. When these methods cannot be supplied, the
valuation shall be determined by utilizing the current Building Valuation Table
as published by the International Code Council.
   (C)   Electrical permit fees.
 
TYPE                                     FEE
                                         $0.55 per amp, minimum fee $35 (each
New construction                         unit of multi- family housing is
                                         considered a separate housing unit for
                                         fee calculations)
Alterations, additions, repairs, changes 0.75% of the documented electrical
of service, modular furniture            valuation with a minimum charge of $35
Temporary service                        $50
Prepower agreement                       $90
 
   (D)   Plumbing permit fees.
 
TYPE                             FEE
                                 $35 plus $7 per fixture (each unit of
New construction                 multi-family housing is considered a
                                 separate housing unit for fee calculations)
Alterations, additions, repairs, 0.75% of the documented plumbing value with
irrigation                       a minimum charge of $35
 
   (E)   Mechanical permit fees.
 
TYPE                            FEE
New construction                $35
   $0 - $1,000               $50
   $1,000.01 - $2,500        $70
   $2,500.01 - $5,000        $90
   $5,000.01 - $10,000       $160
   $10,000.01 - $25,000      $7 per $1,000 of valuation, or fraction thereof
   Greater than $25,000
Additions, alterations, repairs 0.75% of the documented mechanical value with a
                                minimum charge of $35
 
   (F)   Miscellaneous Building Department fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                                   FEE
Early start authorization              $100
Re-inspection fee                      $40
Resubmittal of plans as a result of
plan review comments prior to permit   First resubmittal (no charge)
issuance
Second and subsequent resubmittals     $2 per page for smaller than 11" x 17"
                                       $25 per page from 11" x 17" to 30" x 42"
Resubmittal of plans and/or documents  $2 per page for smaller than 11" x 17"
as a result of revisions after permit  $25 per page for 11" x 17" to 30" x 42"
issuance
Restamp and recertification of         $35 for single-family residential
unaltered plans after issuance of      $5 per page for commercial
permit
Change of prime contractor             $25
Renewal, reissuance & extension of a   50% of the usual permit fees
permit
Work commencing before permit issuance The usual permit fee plus 100% penalty;
by owner                               or $100 minimum
Work commencing before permit issuance The usual permit fee plus 100% penalty;
by contractor                          or $200 minimum
Proceeding with construction without   $100 per occurrence
required inspection
Duplicate certificate of occupancy (C/
O) or certificate of completion (C/C)  $10
at time of issuance
After hours inspections                $50 per hours (4 hour minimum) per
                                       inspector availability
 
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
§ 163.03 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT LAND DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Comprehensive plan amendments and development of regional impact
(DRIs).
 
TYPE                                                FEE
Comprehensive plan text amendment                   $750
Development of regional impact (DRI)                $7,500
Large scale future land use (FLU) amendment         $1,500
Notice of proposed change (NOPC) to an approved DRI $2,500
Small scale FLU amendment                           $750
Cost of display ads and recording fees will be passed along to the applicant.
 
   (B)   Development plans.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                    FEE
Final plat              $600
Final subdivision       $600
Lot split               $250
Minor site plan         $600
Preliminary subdivision $1,000
Site plan               $1,600
Site plan revision      $600
All development plans may also be subject to a fire review fee.
 
   (C)   Rezonings.
 
TYPE                                 FEE
Final Planned Unit Development (PUD) $1,000**
Preliminary PUD                      $500**
PUD amendment                        $500*
Rezoning                             $500*
Zoning text amendment (ZTA)          $250
* Cost of recording fees will be passed along to the applicant.
** May also be subject to a fire review fee.
 
   (D)   Right-of-way (ROW) utilization permit fees.
 
TYPE                                    FEE
Miscellaneous work by utility company   $100 for each 1,000 feet or fraction
within ROW                              thereof
Each jack and bore operation by utility $100 each
company within ROW
Miscellaneous work within ROW           $250 if not part of site permit
Residential driveway connection to city $50 if not part of building permit
street system and/or sidewalk
Commercial driveway connection to city  $100 if not part of site permit
street system and/or sidewalk
 
   (E)   Other Community Development Department land development fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                 FEE
Annexation           $500*
Arbor permit         $30
(residential)
Arbor permit
(commercial/site     Minimum $50
construction permit)
Conditional use      $350**
Plan resubmittal
(second &
subsequent) based on $150
Development Review
Committee (DRC)
comments
Pruning permit       $30 (One- and two-family dwelling units are except per §
                     157.23)
Site construction    1.25% of contract price, minimum $250
permit
Tree protection      $5
signs
Vacate               $500*
Variance             $300**
Zoning verification  $50
letter
* Cost of recording fees will be passed along to the applicant.
** May also be subject to a fire review fee.
 
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
§ 163.04 FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Fire permit fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                                                                   FEE
For new construction, additions, renovations, etc.:
                                                                       $0.02 per
                                                                       square foot
                                                                       of the
                                                                       construction.
   Plan review fee                                                  $40 minimum,
                                                                       due at time
                                                                       of
                                                                       application;
                                                                       non-
                                                                       refundable
                                                                       $0.02 per
                                                                       square foot
                                                                       of the
   Inspection fee                                                   construction.
                                                                       $30 minimum,
                                                                       due at permit
                                                                       issuance
Other fire permit types:
                                                                       $50; $25 due
   Special locking arrangements (includes maglocks, delayed egress, at
etc.)                                                                  application;
                                                                       non-
                                                                       refundable
                                                                       $75; $25 due
                                                                       at
   Modular furniture with/without electrical)                       application;
                                                                       non-
                                                                       refundable
                                                                       0.4% of job
                                                                       value of
Miscellaneous fire permits (to include all permits requiring a fire    construction;
review and are not already categorized, i.e., gates, generators,       $50 minimum;
mechanical, electrical, letters of intent, etc.)                       $25 due at
                                                                       application;
                                                                       non-
                                                                       refundable
 
   (B)   Fire protection systems.
 
TYPE                                                                           FEE
Permit fees:
                                                                               $65 due at
                                                                               time of
                                                                               application
                                                                               which in
                                                                               non-
                                                                               refundable,
   Fixed systems - including wet chemical, dry chemical, CO2, kitchen hood, plus $6.50
clean agents such as Inergen, FM200, etc.                                      per $1,000
                                                                               of cost* -
                                                                               due at
                                                                               permit
                                                                               issuance,
                                                                               minimum of
                                                                               $40
                                                                               $70 due at
                                                                               time of
                                                                               application
                                                                               which is
                                                                               non-
                                                                               refundable,
   Fire sprinkler and fire alarm systems (includes underground fire lines)  plus $6.50
                                                                               per $1,000
                                                                               of cost* -
                                                                               due at
                                                                               permit
                                                                               issuance,
                                                                               minimum of
                                                                               $40
* or fraction thereof
 
   (C)   Site/DRC - fire fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                                    FEE
Development plans:
   Final plat                        $50; due at application; non-refundable
   Final subdivision                 $75; due at application; non-refundable
   Minor site plan                   $75; due at application; non-refundable
   Preliminary subdivision           $100; due at application; non-
                                        refundable
   Site plan                         $150; due at application; non-
                                        refundable
   Site plan revision                $50; due at application; non-refundable
Rezoning/other fees:
   Annexation                        $50; due at application; non-refundable
   Final Planned Unit Development (PU$100; due at application; non-
                                        refundable
   Preliminary PUD                   $50; due at application; non-refundable
   Conditional use                   $25; due at application; non-refundable
   Variance (if fire review required)$25; due at application; non-refundable
 
   (D)   Special permit fees.
 
TYPE                       FEE
                           $100; $50 due at application; non-refundable;
Fireworks display          standby fire protection fees also apply - see §
                           95.01(F)
Tents and air supported
structures (less than 180  $75; $50 due at application; non-refundable
days)
Early start authorizations $100; due at issuance
Seasonal retailer sparkler $100; due at application
permit
 
   (E)   Miscellaneous fees.
TYPE FEE
TYPE                                   FEE
Fire hydrant flow test                 $100; due at time of request
False fire alarm fees                  See §
                                       96.05 for fee schedule
                                       See §§
Fire Code violation fees               37.07 and
                                       37.08 for fee schedule
Standby fire protection fees           See §
                                       95.01(F)for fee schedule
Re-inspection fees (construction       $40
inspections)
Resubmittal of plans as a result of
plan review comments prior to permit   First resubmittal (no charge)
issuance
Second and subsequent resubmittals     $2 per page for smaller than 11" x 17"
                                       $25 per page from 11" x 17" to 30" x 42"
Resubmittal of plans and/or documents  $2 per page for smaller than 11" x 17"
as a result of revisions after permit  $25 per page from 11" x 17" to 30" x 42"
issuance
Restamp and recertification of
unaltered plans after issuance of      $5 per page for commercial
permit
Change of prime contractor             $25
Work commencing before permit issuance 100% penalty of the usual permit fee or
by owner                               $100 minimum
Work commencing before permit issuance 100% penalty of the usual permit fee or
by contractor                          $200 minimum
Proceeding with construction without   $100 per occurrence
required inspection
                                       $50 per hour (4 hour minimum); due at
After hours inspection                 time of request and subject to inspector
                                       availability
 
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see also
Ch. 95
§ 163.05 OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
 
TYPE                           FEE
Garage/rummage sale (also see  $5; non-refundable/non-transferable to another
Chapter 113)                   day
Vehicle for sale (also see     $5
Chapter 70)
Special events (also see       $50; non-refundable
Chapter 94)
 
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11; Am. Res. 897, passed 4-19-12)
§ 163.06 REFERENCES.
   (A)   Code enforcement citations - see
Chapter 37 of the Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Local business tax receipts - see
Chapter 111 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
§ 163.07 AMENDMENT OF FEES.
   Fees in this chapter may be amended from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. 1417, passed 3-3-11)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   EASEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
V.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Annexing and providing zoning classification as A-1,
17       6-25-74  Agriculture, for two parcels of land located on the west side
                  of the right-of-way of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in
                  Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  Annexing and providing zoning classification as A-1,
18       6-25-74  Agriculture, certain property located at the intersection of
                  the Sanford Grant line and the north and south quarter
                  section line of Section 19, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
23       2-12-75  Annexing and providing zoning classification as Ml-A, Light
                  Industrial, for four parcels of land.
                  (A) Part of the northeast quarter north of the Sanford Grant
                  line in Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) All of government lot 3 in Section 6, Township 20 south,
                  Range 30 east, lying east of the railroad and west of State
                  Road 400; and that portion of the west half of Section 6,
                  Township 20 south, Range 30 east lying in the Sanford Grant;
                  and part of government lot 2 in Section 6, Township 20 south,
                  Range 30 east.
                  (C) The north half of the southwest quarter east of the
                  railroad and west of State Road 400 in Section 6, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
                  (D) Part of the northwest quarter and part of the southwest
                  quarter of Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
53       2-17-77  Annexing and providing zoning classification as A-1,
                  Agriculture, for two parcels of land.
                  (A) Certain land located south of the northwest corner of
                  Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) Certain land located at the intersection of the south
                  line of the Sanford Grant line with the east line of the
                  northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east.
57       7-21-77  Annexing 17 parcels of land.
                  (A) The southwest quarter west of State Road 400 in Section
                  7, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) Certain property beginning at the southwest corner of
                  Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (C) Part of government lot 2, Section 12, Township 20 south,
                  Range 29 east, lying east of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
                  right-of-way, and part of government lot 1, Section 13,
                  Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
                  (D) 1 and 1 Acres, north of Lake Mary Boulevard located in
                  Section 11, Township 20 south, Range 29 east, and Section 12,
                  Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
                  (E) Dyson Property number 2, located in Section 11, Township
                  20 south, Range 29 east, and Section 12, Township 20 south,
                  Range 29 east, and Section 7, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east.
                  (F) Chase property, located in Section 12, Township 20 south,
                  Range 29 east, and Section 1, Township 20 south, Range 29
                  east, and Section 36, Township 19 south, Range 29 east, and
                  Section 35, Township 19 south, Range 29 east.
                  (G) Strickland property, located in Section 36, Township 19
                  south, Range 29 east.
                  (H) Hagan property, located in Section 35, Township 19 south,
                  Range 29 east.
                  (I) Trepanier property, located in Section 2, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                  (J) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east, and part of the northeast quarter of
                  Section 2, Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
                  (K) Part of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 19
                  south, Range 29 east.
                  (L) Forbes and Ramsey property, located in the southeast
                  quarter of Section 2, Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
                  (M) Hagan property, located in the southeast quarter of
                  Section 35, Township 19 south, Range 29 east.
                  (N) Franklin property, located in the northeast quarter of
                  the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 19 south, Range
                  29 east.
                  (O) Dyson property, located in the southwest quarter of
                  Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (P) Part of Section 7, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (Q) Part of the southwest quarter of Section 6, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
75       12-21-78 Annexing two parcels of land.
                  (A) Part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section
                  19, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) The north 203.2 feet of the east half of government lot
                  2, Section 24, Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
82       5-3-79   Annexing two parcels of land.
                  (A) Certain property located 23.9 chains south of the
                  northwest corner of Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east.
                  (B) Certain property beginning at the intersection of the
                  south line of the Sanford Grant line with the east line of
                  the northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 20 south, Range
                  30 east.
86       8-16-79  Lots 14, 15, 16, and 17 of Sanford Substantial Farms.
106      6-19-80  Certain property located in the southwest quarter of Section
                  22, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  All of the west half of the north east quarter of the
113      9-4-80   northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 22,
                  Township 20, Range 30 east.
                  All of lots 18, 19, 20, and 21 of Sanford Substantial Farms,
129      2-26-81  Tract No. 1, and also that part of the south east quarter of
                  the southeast quarter of Section 21, Township 20 south, Range
                  30 east, lying north of State Road 427.
 
TABLE II: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Granting to Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company the
7        5-13-74 right to construct, maintain, and operate lines of telephone
                 and telegraph on, along, over, and under the public roads,
                 streets, and highways of the city.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Granting to Florida Power Corporation, for a period of 30
4        11-12-73 years, the right, privilege, and franchise to construct,
                  operate, and maintain all electric power facilities required
                  to supply electricity.
                  Granting to Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company the
7        5-13-74  right to construct, maintain, and operate lines of telephone
                  and telegraph on, along, over, and under the public roads,
                  streets, and highways of the city.
                  Granting to Florida Power and Light Company the nonexclusive
104      4-17-80  right, privilege, or franchise, to construct, maintain, and
                  operate, for the period of 30 years, electric light and power
                  facilities for the purpose of supplying electricity.
130      4-16-81  Granting to Sanlando Cablevision, Incorporated an exclusive
                  franchise to install, maintain, and operate a cable system.
1568     6-15-17  Amending portions of Ord. 1519, the franchise agreement for
                  waste collections services with Waste Pro of Florida, Inc.
                 
 
TABLE IV: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
57       7-21-77 Agreement for the requirements and regulations of Heathrow
                 Planned Unit Development.
60       1-19-78 The north half of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township
                 20 south, Range 30 east, from RM-2 to PUD.
                
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Annexing two parcels of land on the west side of the right-
17       6-25-74  of-way of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in Section 10,
                  Township 20 south, Range 30 east and providing zoning
                  classification as A-1, Agricultural.
                  Annexing certain property located at the intersection of the
18       6-25-74  Sanford Grant line and the north and south quarter section
                  line of Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, and
                  providing zoning classification as A-1, Agricultural.
23       2-12-75  Annexing and providing zoning classification as MI-A, Light
                  Industrial, for four parcels of land.
                (A) Part of the northeast quarter north of the Sanford Grant
                  line in Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) All of government lot 3 in Section 6, Township 20 south,
                  Range 30 east, lying east of the railroad and west of State
                Road 400; and that portion of the west half of Section 6
                  Township 20 south, Range 36 east lying in the Sanford Grant;
                  and part of government lot 2 in Section 6, Township 20 south,
                  Range 30 east.
                  (C) The north half of the southwest quarter east of the
                railroad and west of State Road 400 in Section 6, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
                (D) Part of the northwest quarter and part of the southwest
                  quarter of Section 6, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  Rezoning five parcels of land from their present
                  classification to Commercial 2, and granting special
45       8-30-76  exceptions to establish and operate a restaurant and a
                  service station in combination with another retail
                  establishment.
                (A) The west half of the northwest quarter of the northeast
                  quarter of the northwest quarter, presently Agricultural 1.
                  (B) Certain property located 593.4 feet west of the northeast
                  corner of the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 20
                south, Range 30 east, presently residential and certain
                  property located 856.2 feet west of the northeast corner of
                  the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 20 south, Range
                  30 east, presently Agricultural 1.
                (C) The east half of the northeast quarter of the northeast
                  quarter of the northwest quarter, presently Agricultural 1.
                  (D) Certain property located 461.4 feet west of the northeast
                  corner of the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east; and part of the northwest quarter of
                Section 17, Township 20 south, Range 30 east; and the west
                  quarter of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
                  Section 17, Township 20 south, Range 30 east; and Crystal
                  Lawn subdivision lots 26 through 41, all presently
                  Agricultural 1.
                  (E) Certain property located 329.4 feet west of the northeast
                corner of the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east, presently Agricultural 1.
53       2-17-77  Annexing and providing zoning classification as A-1,
                  Agricultural, for two parcels of land.
                (A) Certain land located south of the northwest corner of
                  Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) Certain land located at the intersection of the south
                line of the Sanford Grant line with the east line of the
                  northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east.
54       3-31-77  Certain property beginning at the southwest corner of Section
                  8, Township 20 south, Range 30 east from RM-2 to RM 2-A.
                  The south 262 feet of the west 200 feet of Block B, amended
55       7-21-77  plat of Crystal Heights, Section 8, Township 20 south, Range
                  30 east from R-1 to C-1 with restrictions.
60       1-19-78  The north half of the northwest quarter of Section 8,
                  Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from RM-2 to PUD.
61       4-6-78   Rezoning three parcels of land from A-1, Agricultural, to MI-
                  A, Light Industrial.
                  (A) Part of the southwest quarter of Section 18, Township 20
                south, Range 30 east; and part of the northwest quarter of
                  Section 19, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
                  (B) Part of government lot 1, Section 24, Township 20 south,
                  Range 29 east; and part of the southwest quarter of Section
                18, Township 20 south, Range 30 east; and part of the
                  northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east.
                  (C) Part of government lot 1, Section 24, Township 20 south,
                Range 29 east; and part of the northwest quarter of Section
                  19, Township 20 south, Range 30 east.
62       4-6-78   130 West Crystal Lake Avenue from C-2, General Retail
                  Commercial to C-3, Wholesale Commercial.
63       5-18-78  Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, Block 14, Crystal Lake Winter Homes
                  Subdivision, from CN to R-1A.
65       6-1-78   The south side of Lake Mary Boulevard at 7th Street from A-1,
                  Agricultural to O-C, Office Commercial.
66       6-22-78  Rezoning 10 parcels of land from A-1, Agricultural to M-IA,
                  Light Industrial.
                (A) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (B) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (C) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (D) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (E) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (F) Part of government lot 1 in Section 24, Township 20
                  south, Range 29 east.
                (G) The northwest quarter of State Road 400 in Section 24,
                  Township 20 south, Range 29 east.
                (H) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
                (I) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
                (J) Part of the northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 20
                  south, Range 30 east.
67       7-19-78  Lots 16, 17, and 18, Block 6, first addition to Lakeview,
                  from Rl to R2, Duplex.
68       7-19-78  Certain property located just north west of Sun Road and Lake
                  Mary Boulevard from A-1, Agricultural, to C-1, Commercial.
                  The south part of the Rhinehart property of Rhinehart Road,
72       12-21-78 approximately one mile north of Lake Mary Boulevard, from A-
                  1, Agricultural, to M-IA, Light Industrial.
                  Forty acres south of Broadmoor Road across from Clermont
73       12-21-78 Street, from A-1, Agricultural to R-1AA, Residential
                  Subdivision.
                  Certain property beginning at the southwest corner of the
80       5-3-79   northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8,
                  Township 20 south, Range 30 east from A-1, Agricultural, to
                  R-4, Multiple Family.
                  Certain property beginning at the southwest corner of the
81       5-3-79   northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8,
                  Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from A-1, Agriculture, to
                  C-2, General Retail Commercial, with restrictions.
84       7-5-79   The northeast corner of Country Club Road and Lake Mary
                  Boulevard, from R-1A, Residential, to C-1, Commercial.
88       9-6-79   Lots 1 through 7, Block 1, Evansdale, from R-1A, Single-
                  Family Residential, to C-1, Commercial, with restricted uses.
                  That real property next to and wrapping around Phillips 66 at
89       9-13-79  the corner of Lake Mary Boulevard and Sun Drive, from A-1,
                  Agriculture, to C-1, Commercial, with restrictions.
                  Part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
92       11-1-79  Section 18, Township 20 south, Range 30 east from C-4,
                  Limited Commercial, to C-1, Retail Commercial.
93       11-15-79 Rezoning three parcels of land.
                  (A) Part of the southeast quarter of Section 7, Township 20
                south, Range 30 east lying south of Sanford Avenue (Sun
                  Drive) from A-1, Agriculture to C-1, Commercial.
                  (B) Part of the southeast quarter of Section 7, Township 20
                south, Range 30 east, from A-1, Agriculture, to C-1,
                  Commercial.
                  (C) Part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
                Section 7, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, lying south of
                  Sanford Avenue, from A-1, Agriculture, to O-C, Office
                  Commercial.
                  Certain real property, 231 feet by 155 feet, bounded by
94       12-6-79  Frederick Avenue and Second Street, from A-1, Agriculture, to
                  R-1AA, Single-Family Residential.
95       12-6-79  Rezoning two parcels of land.
                  (A) Lots 7, 8, and 9, Block 22, Crystal Lake Winter Homes
                Subdivision, from C-1, Commercial to R-2, Residential One-
                  and Two-Family Residential.
                  (B) Lots 10, 11, and the west 19 feet of lot 12, Block 22,
                Crystal Lake Winter Homes Subdivision, from R-1A, Single-
                  Family Residential, to R-2, One- and Two-Family Residential.
                  The ten acres south of Van Buren Avenue between Third and
96       12-20-79 Fourth Streets, from A-1, Agriculture, to R-2, One- and Two-
                  Family Residential, with restrictions.
97       12-20-79 The northeast corner of Lake Mary Boulevard and Wilson Drive
                  from R-1A, Single-Family to O-C, Office Commercial.
98       1-17-80  Rezoning two parcels of land.
                  (A) Lots 45, 46, and the south half of lot 47, Crystal Lawn
                Subdivision, from R-1A, Single-Family, to C-1, Retail
                  Commercial.
                  (B) Lots 48, 49, 50, and the north half of lot 47, Crystal
                Lawn Subdivision, from O-C, Office Commercial, to C-1, Retail
                  Commercial.
                  The southeast quarter of the south east quarter of Section 6,
99       1-17-80  Township 20 south, Range 30 east from A-1, Agriculture, to M-
                  1A, Light Industrial.
100      1-29-80  Rezoning two parcels of land.
                  (A) Part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
                Section 18, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, and part of
                  government lot 1 in Section 13, Township 20 south, Range 29
                  east, from A-1, Agriculture, to C-1, Commercial.
                  (B) Part of government lot 1 in Section 13, Township 20
                south, Range 29 east, and part of the southwest quarter of
                  the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 20 south, Range
                  30 east, from A-1, Agriculture, to Ml-A, Industrial.
105      5-1-80   Rezoning the real property one-quarter mile east of I-4 on
                  Lake Mary Boulevard, containing approximately five acres.
                  (A) That part of the real property that is 200 feet deep
                measured in a northerly direction from the southerly boundary
                  of the property running along Lake Mary Boulevard, from A-1,
                  Agriculture, to C-1, Commercial.
                (B) The remaining balance of the real property, from A-1,
                  Agriculture, to O-C, Office Commercial.
                  Part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
108      7-17-80  Section 18, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from C-4,
                  Limited Commercial, to C-1, Retail Commercial.
109      8-7-80   Rezoning three parcels of land.
                (A) Part of Section 4, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from
                  A-1, Agriculture, to C-1, Retail Commercial.
                (B) Part of Section 4, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from
                  A-1, Agriculture, to R-3, Multiple Family.
                  (C) Part of Section 4, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from
                A-1, Agriculture, to R-3, Multiple Family. 1108-7-80Rezoning
                  six parcels of land from their present classification to O-C,
                  Office Commercial.
                  (A) Block 49, lots M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, and X,
                amended plat of Crystal Lake Shores, presently R-1A,
                  Residential.
                (B) Block 50, lots M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V, amended
                  plat of Crystal Lake Shores, presently R-1A, Residential.
                (C) Block 50, lots 35 and 36, Crystal Lake Winter Homes,
                  presently R-1A, Residential.
                (D) Block 51, lots M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, and V, amended
                  plat of Crystal Lake Shore, presently R-1A, Residential.
                  (E) Block 47, lots J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, and U,
                amended plat of Crystal Lake Shores, presently R-1AA,
                  Residential.
                  (F) Block 48, lots M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, and X,
                amended plat of Crystal Lake Shores, presently R-1AA,
                  Residential.
111      8-7-80   Rezoning two parcels of land.
                  (A) Part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
                Section 7, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from A-1,
                  Agriculture, to C-1, Retail Commercial.
                  (B) Part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
                Section 7, Township 20 south, Range 30 east, from A-1,
                  Agriculture, to O-C, Office Commercial.
                  Part of lots 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, and 43, Sanford
                  Substantial Farms, being the property located north of
116      9-18-80  Highway 427, south of Lake Road, east of Second Road, and
                  west of East Road, from A-1, Agriculture, to R-1AAA, Single-
                  Family Dwelling.
                  Lots 26, 27, 28, 29, and 30, Block 18, Crystal Lake Winter
120      11-20-80 Homes Subdivision from R-1A, Single Family, to R-2, One- and
                  Two-Family Dwelling.
                  Lots 10 through 18, Block 21, Crystal Lake Winter Homes
121      12-18-80 Subdivision from C-2, General Retail Commercial, to R-1A,
                  Single-Family Residential.
                  Certain real property located approximately one-half mile
122      1-8-81   south of Lake Mary Boulevard on the east side of Longwood-
                  lake Mary Road, from R-3, Multiple-Family Dwelling to R-
                  2 One- and Two-Family Dwelling.
                  Certain real property commonly known as Rhinehart Road and
123      1-8-81   Sun Drive, containing approximately ten acres, from WR-1AAA,
                  Lakeside Zoning, to R-3, Multiple Family.
                  Certain real property commonly known as West Lake Mary
124      1-8-81   Boulevard directly west of Lake Mary Veterinary Clinic (Lake
                  Mary Boulevard and Seventh Street), from A-1, Agriculture, to
                  C-2, General Retail Commercial, with restrictions.
125      1-22-81  175 Washington Avenue, from A-1, Agriculture, to R-1A,
                  Single-Family Residential.
                  Part of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of the
131      3-26-81  southeast quarter of Section 9, Township 20 south, Range 30
                  east, from R-1A, Single-Family Residential, to O-C, Office
                  Commercial, with restrictions.
133      5-7-81   141 East Wilbur Avenue from R-1A Single-Family Residential,
                  to OC Office Commercial.
                  The east 342 feet of the south half of the southwest quarter
                  of the southeast quarter, Section 8, Township 20 south, Range
134      5-7-81   30 east (less the north 330 feet and less the east 33 feet
                  for Ninth Street) from R-1A Single-Family Residential, to OC
                  Office Commercial.
                  Part of Block B, Evansdale, as recorded in Plat Book 7, page
136      5-21-81  37, of the public records of Seminole County from A-
                  1 Agricultural, to R-2 One- and Two-Family Residential.
                  Part of government lots 1 and 2 of Section 6, Township 20
138      7-16-81  south, Range 30 east from A-1 Agricultural, to M-1A Light
                  Industrial.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
                  Industrial (IND) to Public/Semi-Public (PUB) for a +/- 4.88
1686     7-20-23  acre property located at 911 Wallace Court and a +/- 1.57
                  acre property located on the east side of Skyline Drive,
                  north of Emma Oaks Trail.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
1688     8-17-23  Low-Medium Density Residential (LMDR) to Recreation (REC) for
                  a +/- 0.31 acre property located at 157 Washington Avenue.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
                  Commercial (COM) to Public/Semi-Public (PUB) for properties
                  located at 503 Primera Boulevard and 1002 Primera Boulevard
1692     10-19-23 consisting of +/- 0.06 acres, and a change of future land use
                  designation from High-Tech and Medical (HTM) to Public/Semi-
                  Public (PUB) fro a +/- 0.06 acre property located at 510 New
                  Technology Boulevard.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
1693     10-19-23 Low Density Residential (LDR) to Public/Semi-Public (PUB) for
                  certain properties within the city consisting of +/- 17.70
                  acres.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
1696     11-16-23 Low-Medium Density Residential (LMDR) to Public/Semi-Public
                  (PUB) for certain properties within the city consisting of +/
                  - 0.18 acres.
                  Providing for a change of future land use designation from
1697     11-16-23 Rural Residential (RR) to Public/Semi-Public (PUB) for
                  certain properties within the city consisting of +/- 7.90
                  acres.
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to City Policies
REFERENCES TO FLORIDA STATUTES
F.S. SECTION CODE SECTION
F.S. SECTION                   CODE SECTION
Fla. Const., Art. VIII, § 2(b)38.01,
                               50.141
1.01                           10.02
1.630                          161.11
Ch. 85                         Ch. 155, App. D, § 26
Chs. 97 through 106            Ch. 34
99.093(2)                      34.09
97.011 et seq.                 34.09
101.62 et seq.                 34.14
112.011                        35.02
112.011(2)(c)                  35.02
112.061                        32.01
Ch. 119                        56.22,
                               161.09
119.07(1)                      31.20
Ch. 120                        98.07
159.17                         53.09
161.055                        152.04
Ch. 162                        30.30
162.05                         30.60
162.12                         30.41,
                               91.78
162.21(3)(b)                   54.14
162.22                         97.25 ,
                               154.15
                               30.16,
Ch. 163                        154.02,
                               154.25
163.045                        157.14
163.3177(10)(h)                161.01
163.3180(6)                    161.13
163.3180(12)                   161.13
163.3180(16)                   161.13
163.3180(16)(e)                161.13
163.3202(f)                    Ch. 155, App. I, § 2
163.3215(2)                    159.11
163.3223 -163.3243             159.01,
                               159.11
Ch. 166                        30.30
166.021                        38.03,
                               50.141
166.021(3)(a)-(d)              38.03
166.041                        38.03
166.041(3)(b)                  98.07
                               154.09,
166.04151                      154.41,
                               154.140
166.04151(7)                   154.09,
                               154.140
166.04151(7)(a)                154.09
166.04151(7)(c)                154.09
166.04151(7)(f)                154.09
166.0442                       35.02
166.045                        31.01
166.231                        31.20
166.231(9)(c)                  31.20
166.232                        31.20
166.233(3)                     31.20
166.234                        31.20
166.251                        53.08
                               155.14,
                               155.15,
Ch. 177                        155.22,
                               155.31,
                               155.41,
                               155.42
177.031                        154.02
177.101                        155.40
Ch. 180                        50.141
180.136                        53.02
Ch. 197                        155.14
197.3632                       38.01
197.3635                       38.01
Ch. 202                        97.03 ,
                               97.06
202.11(1)                      97.03
202.19                         97.28
202.20                         97.28
Ch. 205                        Ch. 111
205.162                        111.04
205.171                        111.04
205.191                        111.04
Ch. 252                        98.03,
                               98.08
252.31 through 252.90          98.07
252.34                         98.01
252.38(2) through (4)          98.06
Ch. 255                        31.01
283.33                         31.01
287.017                        31.01
287.063                        31.01
                               70.02,
                               70.12,
Ch. 316                        70.49,
                               91.15.1,
                               154.09
316.003(75)                    162.02
316.006(2)(b) or (3)(b)        70.01
316.008(5)                     70.99
316.212                        70.30
316.293                        91.19.1
316.2045                       93.01
Ch. 318                        70.02
Ch. 320                        70.02
320.01                         152.20
320.8249                       152.38
Ch. 322                        70.02
Ch. 333                        97.18
335.075                        Ch. 155, App. A, § 3
Ch. 337                        97.10
                               97.02 ,
                               97.06 ,
                               97.10 ,
337.401                        97.12 ,
                               97.14 ,
                               97.16 ,
                               97.18 ,
                               154.15
337.401(5)                     97.06
337.401(6)                     97.18
337.401(6)(a)1                 97.05
337.401(6)(b)                  97.28
337.401(7)                     97.06
337.401(7)(b)2                 97.10
337.401(7)(b)7                 97.03 ,
                               154.09
337.401(7)(b)10                97.13
337.401(7)(b)11                97.16
337.401(7)(d)                  97.06
337.401(7)(d)3.i.              97.10
337.401(7)(d)4                 97.06 ,
                               154.15
337.401(7)(d)5                 97.13 ,
                               97.16
337.401(7)(d)6                 97.16
337.401(7)(d)7 through 9       97.06
337.401(7)(d)10                97.06
337.401(7)(d)12                97.10
337.401(7)(i)                  97.10 ,
                               97.11
337.401(7)(i)1                 97.06
337.401(7)(j)                  97.16
337.401(7)(l)                  97.12
337.401(7)(q)                  97.12
                               97.03 ,
337.401(7)(r)               97.06 ,
                               97.16 ,
                               97.18
337.402                        97.10 ,
                               154.09
337.403                        97.10 ,
                               97.11
337.404                        97.10
Ch. 364                        97.03
365.172                        97.06 ,
                               154.15
366.02                         152.04
372.001                        162.05
Ch. 373                        160.03
373.036                        152.04
Ch. 380                        154.02
380.04                         154.67,
                               161.02
Ch. 381                        98.08
381.0065                       50.001,
                               152.04
                               50.012,
381.00655                      50.028,
                               53.22
381.0655                       50.012
381.986                        154.21
381.986(11)                    154.21
401.23                         95.06
403.413(2)(a)                  162.05
403.415                        91.15
403.9338                       54.03
420.0004                       154.09,
                               154.140
                               154.09,
458.3265                       154.65,
                               154.66,
                               154.120
                               154.09,
459.0137                       154.65,
                               154.66,
                               154.120
Ch. 468                        150.03
468.631                        163.02
471.003                        97.06
                               154.09,
Ch. 479                        154.10,
                               154.130
Ch. 480                        115.06
482.1562(9)                    54.03
489.105 (3)                    150.03
Ch. 497                        91.31
Ch. 553                        97.10
533.721                        163.02
553.73(5)                      152.07
553.73(10)(k)                  152.04
Ch. 556                        97.06 ,
                               97.10
559.955                        154.80
561.01(4)                      162.05
562.45                         154.09
604.50                         152.04
Ch. 610                        97.03
Ch. 689                        155.22(B)
692.01                         155.22(B)
Ch. 704.06                     160.05
768.28                         97.23
Ch. 775                        130.01
791                            95.01
791.01(4)                      162.05
791.02                         95.01
791.04                         95.01
791.07                         95.01
Ch. 794                        115.06
Ch. 796                        115.06
Ch. 800                        115.06
823.14                         54.11
Ch. 847                        115.04,
                               115.06
847.0134                       115.23
Ch. 849                        117.01
849.16                         117.02
865.09                         115.021
877.20 - 877.25                130.02
938.15                         70.99
943.085 - 943.255              37.03
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
4        11-12-73    TSO III
5        11-12-73    34.01 -
                     34.09
5        11-12-73    34.11 -
                     34.17
6        11-12-73    32.01
7        5-13-74     TSO II,
                     III
                     10.99,
                     33.32,
                     91.02,
                     92.01 -
8        5-13-74     92.04,
                     93.01(A),
                     Ch.113,
                     130.01,
                     153.03(A),
                     153.99(B)
                     92.01 -
8A       6-11-75     92.04,
                     93.01(A), 131.05
12       5-28-74     Ch. 111
14       6-10-74     91.01
16       6-25-74     150.03
17       6-25-74     TSO I,
                     V
18       6-25-74     TSO I,
                     V
23       2-12-75     TSO I,
                     V
25       2-20-75     Ch. 153
27       4-9-75      90.01
27A      8-13-75     90.05
28       3-24-75     Ch. 30
34       10-15-75    111.19(A)
35       10-15-75    111.19(B)
37       1-15-76     Ch. 30
39       1-15-76     33.02 -
                     33.31
39       1-15-76     33.40 - 33.61
40       2-19-76     93.01(B) -
                     93.13
41       3-18-76     32.02
                     51.01,
                     51.03 -
44       5-20-76     51.07,
                     53.06,
                     53.08,
                     53.31
45       8-30-76     TSO V
50       12-9-76     32.02,
                     32.03
51       10-28-76    91.01
53       2-17-77     TSO I,
                     V
54       3-31-77     TSO V
55       7-21-77     TSO V
57       7-21-77     TSO I,
                     IV
58       9-22-77     Ch. 151
60       1-19-78     TSO IV,
                     V
61       4-6-78      TSO V
62       4-6-78      TSO V
63       5-18-78     TSO V
64       5-18-78     33.01
65       6-1-78      TSO V
66       6-22-78     TSO V
67       7-19-78     TSO V
68       7-19-78     TSO V
72       12-21-78    TSO V
73       12-21-78    TSO V
75       12-21-78    TSO I
                     34.07,
77       3-1-79      34.10,
                     34.11
78       3-1-79      Ch. 150
80       5-3-79      TSO V
81       5-3-79      TSO V
82       5-3-79      TSO I
84       7-5-79      TSO V
85       8-2-79      150.03
86       8-16-79     TSO I
88       9-6-79      TSO V
89       9-13-79     TSO V
92       11-1-79     TSO V
93       11-15-79    TSO V
94       12-6-79     TSO V
95       12-6-79     TSO V
96       12-20-79    TSO V
97       12-20-79    TSO V
98       1-17-80     TSO V
99       1-17-80     TSO V
100      1-29-80     TSO V
104      4-17-80     TSO III
105      5-1-80      TSO V
106      6-19-80     TSO I
108      7-17-80     TSO V
109      8-7-80      TSO V
110      8-7-80      TSO V
111      8-7-80      TSO V
113      9-4-80      TSO I
114      9-4-80      111.06,
                     111.20(B)
115      9-18-80     Ch. 151
116      9-18-80     TSO V
                     50.001 -
                     50.003,
                     50.010 -
                     50.017,
                     50.025 -
                     50.030,
                     50.035 -
118      10-23-80    50.047,
                     50.055,
                     50.095 -
                     50.099,
                     53.06,
                     53.07,
                     53.20 -
                     53.22
119      10-23-80    150.03
120      11-20-80    T.S.O. V
121      12-18-80    T.S.O. V
122      1-8-81      T.S.O. V
123      1-8-81      T.S.O. V
124      1-8-81      T.S.O. V
125      1-22-81     T.S.O. V
129      2-26-81     T.S.O. I
130      3-26-81     Ch. 110,
                     T.S.O. III
131      3-26-81     T.S.O. V
132      4-16-81     53.06,
                     53.21
133      5-7-81      T.S.O. V
134      5-7-81      T.S.O. V
135      5-7-81      151.04
136      5-21-81     T.S.O. V
137      7-2-81      Ch. 112
138      7-16-81     T.S.O. V
142      11-19-81    30.15
157      12-7-82     Charter
                     34.03,
                     34.04,
162      1-20-83     34.05,
                     34.07,
                     34.10,
                     34.12
183      3-15-84     34.03
184      3-15-84     33.32
186      4-26-84     114.01
                     51.51 -
188      5-17-84     51.56,
                     51.65 -
                     51.68
                     95.01 -
193      6-21-84     95.05,
                     95.99
199      8-16-84     150.05
200      9-13-84     30.15
209      11-1-84     53.06,
                     53.21
210      11-1-84     51.66
219      4-18-85     Ch. 96
                     70.01 -
                     70.03,
                     70.10 -
                     70.15,
221      4-18-85     70.25-
                     70.30,
                     70.45-
                     70.50,
                     70.99
232      9-19-85     70.04
235      9-30-85     32.01
                     91.30,
                     91.31,
                     91.33 -
236      10-3-85     91.41,
                     91.43 -
                     91.45,
                     91.99
237      10-3-85     31.20
238      11-7-85     51.65
241      11-27-85    Ch. 154 -
                     157
                     53.08,
271      2-5-86      53.20,
                     53.31
                     31.10,
279      3-19-87     150.15 -
                     150.20
286      4-16-87     Ch. 152
293      5-21-87     70.48
                     53.08,
300      7-2-87      53.20,
                     53.31
                     Ch. 155, App. D, §§
305      8-13-87     35 -
                     44
                     Charter §§
                     5.01,
                     6.06,
                     8.01,
                     9.02,
                     9.03, Arts.
                     X,
                     XI,
                     XII,
--       9-1-87      XIII,
                     14.01,
                     15.01 -
                     15.03,
                     16.01 -
                     16.06,
                     17.01 -
                     17.07,
                     18.01,
                     19.01
317      9-3-87      32.01
320      9-3-87      31.20
329      11-5-87     32.01
332      11-5-87     Ch. 36
                     53.08,
333      11-5-87     53.20,
                     53.31
335      11-5-87     34.03
343      12-3-87     154.09
344      12-3-87     Ch. 155, App. A, § 2
                     154.06,
345      12-3-87     154.09,
                     154.25
346      12-3-87     Ch. 155, App. A, § 2
347      12-3-87     Ch. 155, App. E, § 3
                     Ch. 155, App. D, §§
348      12-3-87     55 -
                     77
349      12-3-87     154.14
350      12-3-87     Ch. 155, App. H, § 5
354      12-17-87    50.140 -
                     50.147
359      3-3-88      Charter
361      3-17-88     154.09
                     154.09,
364      4-7-88      154.63,
                     Ch. 155, App. B, Sec. 2
368      5-5-88      91.65
369      5-5-88      154.09,
                     154.18
                     91.70,
370      5-19-88     91.75,
                     91.78,
                     91.99
378      6-2-88      155.14
379      6-2-88      Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 2
383      7-7-88      34.07
389      9-15-88     154.25
391      9-15-88     154.80 -
                     154.83
400      9-22-88     Charter
411      1-5-89      30.50 -
                     30.53
413      1-19-89     156.16
415      2-16-89     111.20
416      2-16-89     154.71
                     158.01 -
                     158.07,
421      3-16-89     158.10 -
                     158.12,
                     158.14
422      4-6-89      154.63,
                     154.64
426      6-15-89     53.21
                     154.58,
427      5-18-89     154.56,
                     154.57
428      5-18-89     155.05
434      6-1-89      154.06
                     51.65,
439      7-20-89     53.08,
                     53.20,
                     53.31
441      8-3-89      113.02
447      8-3-89      154.09
448      8-17-89     Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
                     154.40,
449      8-3-89      154.42,
                     154.57
451      11-2-89     Ch. 155, App. H, § 5
453      8-17-89     150.05
                     Ch. 155, App. A, §§
454      8-17-89     4,
                     12
457      12-21-89    Ch. 155, App. C, § 3
                     91.31,
459      9-7-89      91.32,
                     91.44,
                     91.45
484      1-18-90     154.09,
                     154.14
488      2-1-90      34.09
489      2-1-90      31.01
490      2-1-90      158.09
491      3-1-90      Ch. 150A
                     116.01,
492      3-1-90      116.02,
                     116.99
493      3-15-90     Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
495      3-15-90     35.01
497      5-3-90      91.47
502      5-17-90     154.19
                     154.09,
503      5-17-90     154.55,
                     154.56
508      6-7-90      30.30 -
                     30.40
512      6-21-90     Ch. 159
522      9-6-90      92.04
523      9-6-90      150.20
528      9-20-90     150.15,
                     150.17
                     154.10,
529      12-6-90     154.63 -
                     154.66
531      12-6-90     111.20
533      11-1-90     34.15
536      1-17-91     154.25
538      2-21-91     Ch. 160
542      4-18-91     154.09,
                     154.20
544      5-2-91      93.20 -
                     93.28
                     155.15,
                     155.23,
                     155.61,
547      6-6-91      155.62,
                     155.63,
                     155.64,
                     155.65,
                     155.66
553      8-1-91      155.21,
                     156.21
555      8-15-91     Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
560      9-5-91      70.30
563      9-19-91     34.09
570      10-3-91     Ch. 155, App. B, § 18
571      10-3-91     158.09
576      11-21-91    Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
581      1-16-92     154.61
                     154.09,
583      1-16-91     Ch. 155, App. B, §
                     2, §
                     3
586      1-16-92     154.06
                     30.15,
592      2-20-92     30.50,
                     30.60,
                     154.25
                     154.09,
594      3-5-92      154.62 -
                     154.66
                     30.15,
                     154.06,
597      4-2-92      154.25,
                     154.27,
                     154.71
                     154.25,
                     155.11 -
598      4-16-92     155.14,
                     156.10,
                     156.13
606      7-4-92      155F.05
608      8-6-92      154.22
612      11-4-92     Charter
617      11-4-92     Charter
622      12-3-92     34.04
623      12-3-92     34.05
624      12-3-92     34.06
625      12-3-92     93.21
631      2-4-93      31.01
632      2-4-93      Ch. 155, App. C
633      2-18-93     Ch. 161
                     Ch. 155, App. B, §§
635      3-4-93      2,
                     4,
                     7
                     50.095 -
                     50.099,
                     50.140 -
                     50.147,
638      4-15-93     53.06 -
                     53.08,
                     53.20 -
                     53.22,
                     53.31
640      6-3-93      Ch. 155, App. A
                     155.11 -
                     155.15,
                     155.21 -
                     155.23,
                     155.32,
641      5-20-93     155.33,
                     155.40,
                     155.43,
                     155.60,
                     155.64,
                     155.99
643      6-17-93     Ch. 155, App. C
                     156.02,
                     156.12,
651      7-1-93      156.13,
                     156.20,
                     156.21,
                     156.22
                     32.01,
654      7-15-93     32.02,
                     32.10,
                     32.11
655      7-15-93     Ch. 33
656      9-13-93     50.148
657      8-19-93     158.13
658      8-5-93      150.17
659      9-19-93     96.01 -
                     96.07
                     70.27,
660      9-13-93     70.45 -
                     70.49,
                     70.99
668      10-7-93     30.70 -
                     30.74
                     30.15,
676      12-2-93     30.50,
                     154.25
677      12-2-93     91.44
679      3-3-94      154.12
681      2-20-94     95.01
697      6-2-94      154.11
                     111.01,
                     111.04,
699      7-21-94     111.11 -
                     111.13,
                     111.17,
                     111.20
701      7-7-94      Charter §
                     6.02
702      7-21-94     Charter §
                     12.01
718      10-6-94     154.09,
                     154.13, 154.99
723      11-3-94     70.27
724      11-17-94    70.04
725      11-17-94    113.02
726      11-17-94    150.05
625      12-3-92     93.21
751      4-20-95     37.01 -
                     37.12
                     150.02 -
756      6-15-95     150.04,
                     150.07
757      7-20-95     95.01
762      8-24-95     154.09,
                     154.66
                     115.01 -
763      8-24-95     115.78,
                     115.99
767      9-6-95      150.05
                     154.59,
773      11-2-95     154.62 -
                     154.64
                     150.02 -
774      11-2-95     150.04,
                     150.07
777      12-21-95    150.18,
                     150.20
779      1-18-96     70.50
781      2-1-96      31.20
783      3-21-96     154.09,
                     154.63
788      4-18-96     34.09
799      9-5-96      154.65,
                     154.66
802      9-5-96      154.09
816      10-17-96    34.15
817      2-6-97      154.09,
                     154.15
823      1-23-97     Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
829      3-6-97      154.09,
                     154.14
831      3-6-97      113.01
836      4-3-97      154.09,
                     Ch. 155, App. B, § 2
837      4-17-97     150.09
                     50.140 -
                     50.147,
                     51.53,
                     51.65,
839      6-5-97      51.66,
                     53.06,
                     53.08,
                     53.21,
                     53.31
848      8-14-97     154.62 -
                     154.64
850      9-18-97     154.73
851      9-18-97     150.03
854      10-2-97     92.05,
                     92.08
859      11-20-97    31.01
864      12-18-97    154.09,
                     154.14
                     154.09,
869      2-19-98     154.65,
                     154.66
870      2-19-98     Ch. 155, App. §§ 2, 9, 10
874      3-19-98     154.09,
                     154.20
906      11-19-98    154.67
908      11-5-98     113.01
911      12-17-98    154.11
912      1-21-99     150.18
917      3-4-99      30.15,
                     154.25
                     95.01,
918      3-18-99     95.02,
                     95.03
919      3-18-99     96.02,
                     96.07
931      6-3-99      154.65
                     154.09,
                     154.55,
940      8-26-99     154.63,
                     154.164,
                     154.66
954      10-21-99    31.01
956      10-21-99    32.01
959      12-2-99     Ch. 155, App. § 2
962      1-6-00      95.00,
                     95.01
966      3-2-00      30.36,
                     30.39
987      5-4-00      150.06
                     154.62;
990      8-3-00      154.64 -
                     154.66;
                     Ch. 155, App. B § 4
                     93.21,
1001     11-2-00     93.24,
                     93.28
1005     12-7-00     155.14
1013     2-1-01      154.19
1014     2-1-01      154.14,
                     158.10
                     154.67,
1029     10-4-01     Ch. 155, App. I, §§
                     1 -
                     10
                     162.01 -
1030     8-16-01     162.07,
                     162.99
1036     10-4-01     32.01
1037     10-18-01    30.81
1038     11-1-01     154.67
                     53.08,
1046     2-7-02      53.20,
                     53.31
                     150.01 -
                     150.09,
1048     3-21-02     150.15 -
                     150.20,
                     150.99
                     95.00 -
1050     3-21-02     95.05,
                     95.99
1051     3-21-02     96.01 -
                     96.07
1052     3-21-02     154.22,
                     158.07
                     Ch. 155, App. D, §§
1056     5-2-02      12,
                     73,
                     74
                     Ch. 155, App. E. §§
1057     5-2-02      1-
                     3
                     Ch. 155, App. G, §§
1058     5-2-02      1 -
                     7
1059     4-18-02     154.14
                     Ch. 155, App. A, §§
1060     4-18-02     10,
                     22
                     95.00 -
1067     6-20-02     95.05,
                     95.99
1068     8-1-02      Ch. 155, App. A, § 7
1076     10-3-02     154.14,
                     154.23
1085     3-6-03      95.01
                     Ch. 155, App. I, §§
1086     3-20-03     6,
                     8
                     155.11,
1089     5-15-03     155.12,
                     155.13
1100     8-7-03      154.25
1102     8-21-03     154.67
1110     9-18-03     10.99
1115     11-20-03    115.23
                     30.15,
1118     1-22-04     30.50,
                     30.60,
                     30.61
                     150A.01 -
1119     2-5-04      150A.07,
                     150A.99
                     154.09,
1120     3-4-04      154.62 -
                     154.64
1122     3-4-04      34.09
1123     3-18-04     30.81
1137     6-3-04      155.14
                     117.01 -
1139     6-3-04      117.04,
                     117.99
1140     6-17-04     155.14
1147     10-7-04     154.09,
                     154.23
1148     10-21-04    32.01
1152     12-2-04     31.01
1154     1-20-05     92.25
1162     3-17-05     Ch. 155, App. C, § 3
                     38.01-
                     38.03,
                     38.10,
                     38.11,
                     38.20-
1166     6-2-05      38.31,
                     38.40-
                     38.43,
                     38.55-
                     38.63,
                     38.75
1171     7-7-05      Ch. 155, App. I, § 6
1212     9-7-06      56.01 -
                     56.24
1213     9-21-06     154.61
                     91.15 -
1218     11-2-06     91.19.1,
                     91.99,
                     150.03
                     154.40,
                     154.55 -
1219     11-2-06     154.60,
                     154.62 -
                     154.69
                     111.01 -
1221     10-19-06    111.08,
                     111.10 -
                     111.20
1235     12-7-06     161.13
                     92.01,
1240     1-18-07     92.02,
                     92.05
1241     2-15-07     30.81
1255     6-21-07     30.81
1259     9-6-07      30.90 -
                     30.93
                     Ch. 155, App. C §§
1263     9-20-07     1,
                     2 
1271     11-15-07    70.04
                     70.29,
1272     12-20-07    91.65,
                     91.66
1276     3-20-08     90.01
1278     2-7-08      150.03,
                     150.05
                     154.12,
                     154.55 -
1282     3-6-08      154.59,
                     154.90,
                     Ch. 155, App. C § 5,
                     158.01
                     111.14,
1285     5-1-08      111.15,
                     111.17
1294     7-24-08     30.91
1296     8-7-08      70.01
1297     8-21-08     154.09,
                     154.14
                     53.08,
1304     11-6-08     53.20,
                     53.31
1312     2-5-09      91.30 -
                     91.47
1319     5-7-09      51.20 -
                     51.27
                     116.01,
1325     6-4-09      116.02,
                     116.99
                     70.01 -
                     70.04,
                     70.10-
                     70.15,
1329     8-20-09     70.25-
                     70.30,
                     70.45-
                     70.50,
                     70.99
                     91.70,
1331     9-3-09      91.75 -
                     91.78,
                     91.99
1335     11-19-09    30.81
1341     1-21-10     154.09,
                     154.13
                     154.40,
1342     1-21-10     154.42,
                     154.57,
                     154.68
1348     4-15-10     154.67
1391     10-21-10    92.70 -
                     92.79
1412     1-20-11     150.20
1414     3-3-11      91.39
1416     3-3-11      150.05
1417     3-3-11      163.01 -
                     163.07
1420     4-21-11     33.01,
                     33.02
1427     9-22-11     155.43
1443     10-20-11    154.61
                     Charter §§
                     4.01,
                     4.05,
                     4.09,
                     4.12,
                     7.01, Art. X,
                     11.01,
1449     11-17-11    12.03,
                     12.04,
                     13.01,
                     13.03,
                     13.05,
                     14.05,
                     14.06,
                     16.02
1457     3-1-12      162.05
1458     4-5-12      154.101 -
                     154.107
                     94.01 -
1463     4-19-12     94.09,
                     94.99
                     154.90,
                     155.21,
1464     5-17-12     Ch. 155, App. C, §§ 1,
                     2,
                     8,
                     156.21
                     150.03,
                     152.01 -
1465     5-17-12     152.08,
                     152.20,
                     152.35 -
                     152.41
                     91.70,
1467     9-6-12      91.73,
                     91.74,
                     91.78
1474     11-15-12    30.81
                     154.09,
1475     12-20-12    154.65,
                     154.66,
                     154.120
                     Ch. 155, App. I, §§ 3 -
1476     12-20-12    6,
                     8,
                     11
1478     12-20-12    30.41
1486     5-16-13     154.67
1487     5-16-13     154.67
1488     7-18-13     154.09,
                     154.21
1493     8-22-13     Ch. 155, App. C, § 7
                     30.39,
                     91.70,
1494     9-19-13     91.74,
                     91.75,
                     91.78
1497     9-19-13     Ch. 155, App. C, § 7
                     154.09,
1499     12-5-13     154.10,
                     154.130
1500     12-5-13     Ch. 155, App. I, §§ 3,
                     5
1501     12-19-13    154.09
                     30.16,
                     154.06,
                     154.09,
                     154.10,
1505     5-1-14      154.23,
                     154.25,
                     154.45,
                     154.47,
                     160.06
1506     5-1-14      Ch. 155, App. I, §§ 5,
                     6
                     31.20,
                     50.001 -
                     50.003,
                     50.010 -
                     50.017,
                     50.025 -
                     50.030,
                     50.035 -
                     50.047,
                     50.055,
                     50.095 -
                     50.099,
                     50.140 -
1518     11-6-14     50.148,
                     51.01 -
                     51.07,
                     51.20 -
                     51.28,
                     51.51 -
                     51.56,
                     51.65 -
                     51.68,
                     53.01 -
                     53.09,
                     53.20 -
                     53.22,
                     53.30,
                     53.31
                     150.03,
                     152.01 -
1521     12-4-14     152.08,
                     152.20,
                     152.35 -
                     152.41
1523     2-26-16     91.30 -
                     91.47
1525     5-7-15      Ch. 155, App. C, § 9
1527     9-3-15      30.91,
                     30.92
1535     12-17-15    53.21
1537     2-18-16     50.142,
                     53.31
1542     6-2-16      130.01,
                     130.02
1545     6-16-16     Ch. 155, App. I, § 4
1551     10-3-16     31.01
                     Ch. 155, App. I, § 2,
                     3,
1564     5-18-17     5,
                     6,
                     11,
                     158.04
1567     6-15-17     154.09,
                     154.15
1568     6-15-17     91.32,
                     T.S.O. III
                     37.08,
1569     7-27-17     54.01 -
                     54.14
1571     9-7-17      154.121
                     150.03,
                     152.03,
1584     4-5-18      152.07,
                     152.20,
                     152.38,
                     152.41
1591     7-12-18     70.30
1596     9-20-18     35.01
1601     12-20-18    157.01 -
                     157.24
1605     1-17-19     95.00,
                     95.01
                     10.99,
                     37.08,
                     91.31,
1607     2-21-19     91.32,
                     91.35,
                     91.36,
                     91.42
1608     3-21-19     53.31
1611     9-19-19     154.09,
                     154.24
1614     10-3-19     160.01 -
                     160.06
                     154.09,
1616     11-21-19    154.13,
                     154.67
1618     3-5-20      154.09 ,
                     Ch. 155, App. B
1620     6-18-20     154.67
                     97.01  -
1625     8-20-20     97.32 ,
                     154.09 ,
                     154.15
1628     8-20-20     30.42
1629     9-3-20      31.30
1634     1-7-21      157.14
                     154.07,
                     155.22,
1642     6-17-21     155.23,
                     Ch. 155, App. A, § 2,
                     App. D, § 60,
                     156.22
1643     6-17-21     95.06 -
                     95.09
                     154.56 –
                     154.58,
1647     10-7-21     154.60,
                     154.80 –
                     154.83
1654     1-20-22     98.01 –
                     98.09
                     90.01,
                     92.01 –
1658     3-3-22      92.05,
                     92.08,
                     92.25,
                     92.26
1659     2-17-22     91.70
1669     8-18-22     157.14
1681     4-20-23     154.09
                     154.09,
1685     6-29-23     154.59,
                     154.140
1686     7-20-23     TSO V
1688     8-17-23     TSO V
1692     10-19-23    TSO V
1693     10-19-23    TSO V
1696     11-16-23    TSO V
1697     11-16-23    TSO V
1699  3-7-24      152.38
1700     3-22-24     35.02
1701     5-2-24      154.14
                     154.09,
                     154.41,
                     154.43,
1703     6-20-24     154.44,
                     154.59,
                     154.64,
                     154.140
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
RES. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
RES. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
108      10-18-79    150.05
343      12-21-89    Ch. 155, App. J,
                     Ch. 156, App. A
365      1-3-91      30.80 -
                     30.85
399      12-5-91     93.21
418      3-5-92      30.81
423      4-16-92     30.90 -
                     30.93
450      1-21-93     92.12
486      9-7-94      92.12
507      3-2-95      92.13
600      5-21-98     30.91
651      4-5-01      150.05
737      2-17-05     92.10
763      8-3-06      92.12
                     92.30,
813      2-21-08     92.32,
                     92.34,
                     92.35
                     92.30,
816      5-1-08      92.32,
                     92.34,
                     92.35
848      7-9-09      92.32
849      8-20-09     70.99
871      10-21-10    92.32,
                     92.34
                     92.09,
                     92.11,
894      4-5-12      92.12,
                     92.32,
                     92.50,
                     92.60
897      4-19-12     163.05
908      11-15-12    92.20
944      8-21-14     92.12
958      1-15-15     92.11
960      2-26-15     91.45
998      7-27-17     31.40
1012     10-18-18    31.35
1048     3-3-22      92.26
1057     5-18-23     31.35
1066     4-4-24      92.26
                    
 
REFERENCES TO CITY POLICIES
 
DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
9-27-84     111.20
 
