TOWN OF MELBOURNE BEACH, FLORIDA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-27, current through 3-19-25,
including Ordinance 2025-01, adopted 3-19-25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Establishment; Boundaries
   
1.01   Repeal of present charter
   
1.02   Creation of new charter
   
1.03   Construction of powers; retention of former powers
   
1.04   Transition of Commissioners' terms of office and duties
   
1.05   Boundaries
   
1.06   Intergovernmental relations
Article II. Town Commission
   
2.01   General powers and duties
   
2.02   Composition and qualifications
   
2.03   Term of office
   
2.04   Vacancies on the Commission
   
2.05   Prohibition against employment
   
2.06   Compensation
   
2.07   Mayor
   
2.08   Vice-Mayor
   
2.09   Commissioners-at-Large
   
2.10   Assignment of department responsibilities (repealed)
   
2.11   Commission meeting
   
2.12   Legislative procedure
   
2.13   Ordinances and resolutions
   
2.14   Ordinances by referendum vote
   
2.15   Emergency ordinances
   
2.16   Public notice
   
2.17   Commission attendance at meetings (repealed)
Article III. General Town Administration
   
3.01   Powers and duties of the Town Commission
   
3.02   Administrative units of Town government
   
3.03   Office of the Town Manager
   
3.04   Office of the Town Clerk
   
3.05   Office of the Town Attorney
   
3.06   Police Department
   
3.07   Reserved
   
3.08   Reserved
   
3.09   Reserved
   
3.10   Independent audits
   
3.11   Code of ethics
   
3.12   Advisory boards
Article IV. Judicial System
(repealed)
Article V. Electoral Provisions
   
5.01   Electors
   
5.02   Election ordinances
   
5.03   Time and manner of elections
   
5.04   Disclosure of expenses
Article VI. Initiative, Referendum, Recall
   
6.01   Proposed ordinances
   
6.02   Repeal or amendment of ordinances adopted by electoral vote
   
6.03   Certification of petitions
   
6.04   Election procedure
   
6.05   Recall
   
6.06   Rezoning approval
   
6.07   Height limits
Article VII. Bonds
   
7.01   Authority to issue
Article VIII. Financial Procedure
   
8.01   Fiscal year
   
8.02   Preparation of budget
   
8.03   Public hearing on the budget (repealed)
   
8.04   Adoption of the budget
   
8.05   Effect of final budget and effective date
   
8.06   Tax authority
   
8.07   Tax assessment and collection
   
8.08   Special assessments
   
8.09   Public monies
   
8.10   Franchises
Article IX. Miscellaneous Provisions
   
9.01   Actions against the Town
   
9.02   Extension of territorial limits
   
9.03   Planning and Zoning Board
   
9.04   Board of Adjustment
   
9.05   Charter amendments and revisions
   
9.06   Conflicting laws
   
9.07   Severability
   
9.08   Effective date
Charter
   Be It Enacted by the Town Commission of the Town of Melbourne Beach, County
of Brevard, State of Florida:
   The Charter of the Town of Melbourne Beach, originally incorporated by
Chapter 9833, Laws of Florida, Acts of 1923, as subsequently amended, is
amended and revised to read as follows:
ARTICLE I. ESTABLISHMENT: BOUNDARIES
Sec. 1.01. REPEAL OF PRESENT CHARTER.
   The existing Charter of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Brevard County, State
of Florida, is hereby abolished. The title, rights, and ownerships of property,
uncollected taxes, dues, claims, judgments, decrees, and choses in action, held
or owned by the Town of Melbourne Beach shall pass to and be vested in the
municipal corporation organized under this act to succeed the municipality
abolished. No obligation or contracts of the said municipality, including bonds
heretofore issued, shall be impaired or voided by this act, but such debts and
obligations shall pass to, and be binding upon, the new municipality which is
hereby organized and created. All officers heretofore elected or appointed, and
holding office under the said municipality shall continue to hold their
respective office and to discharge the respective duties thereof until their
successors are elected and confirmed under the provisions of this act and all
existing ordinances of the said municipality, not in conflict with the
provisions of this act, shall continue in effect and unimpaired until repealed,
amended, or modified by the municipality which is hereby organized and created.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 1.02. CREATION OF NEW CHARTER.
   The inhabitants of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, shall continue to
be a body politic and corporate to be known and designated as the “Town of
Melbourne Beach, Florida” (hereinafter to be known as the “Town”); and as such
shall have perpetual succession, shall sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded,
and shall have the use of a common seal.
   The Town shall have all powers possible for a Town to have under the
Constitution and the laws of the State of Florida as fully and completely as if
specifically enumerated under this Charter, in addition to any powers
specifically so enumerated.
   The title, rights, and ownership of property, uncollected taxes, dues,
claims, judgments, decrees, and choses in action, held or owned by the Town
shall continue to be vested in the municipal corporation under this act. No
obligation or contracts of the said municipality, including bonds heretofore
issued, shall be impaired or voided by this act, but such debts and obligations
shall be binding upon the municipality.
   All existing ordinances of the said municipality, not in conflict with the
provisions of this act, shall continue in effect and be unimpaired until
repealed, amended, or modified in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 1.03. CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS: RETENTION OF FORMER POWERS.
   The powers of the Town shall be construed liberally in favor of the Town,
and the specification of particular powers shall not be construed as limiting
in any way the general powers possessed by the Town. The Town shall have
implied and incidental powers to exercise those powers enumerated herein or
granted by general law.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 1.04. TRANSITION OF COMMISSIONERS' TERMS OF OFFICE AND DUTIES.
   Commissioners holding office or duly elected to office at the time of
adoption of this Charter shall continue to serve their respective terms of
office for which elected. Their duties as established by the previous Charter
will no longer pertain, but will be assigned as prescribed under Article II,
section
2.10 subsequent. The Vice-Mayor will continue to serve as such until the
completion of his current term of office, after which time the provisions of
this Charter will apply.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 1.05. BOUNDARIES.
   A description of the Town Boundaries shall be on file in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 1.06. INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The Town may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions and
may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in cooperation by contract
or other wise, with any one or more states or agencies thereof, other counties
or municipalities, or the United States or agencies thereof, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, providing, however, all participation involving
financial obligations of the Town shall be approved by Ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
ARTICLE II. TOWN COMMISSION.
Sec. 2.01. GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the Town shall be vested in an elected Commission, except as
otherwise provided by law or by this Charter. The Commission shall provide for
the exercise by the Town of its municipal powers and for the performance of all
duties and obligations imposed on the Town by law.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.02. COMPOSITION AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Commission shall consist of five (5) members elected by the qualified
voters of the Town as hereinafter provided. Members of the Town Commission
shall have been residents of the Town for at least six (6) months prior to the
date of qualification for office, and shall have the qualifications of a Town
Elector. The Commission shall consist of five (5) Commissioners: The Mayor
elected as such, and four (4) Commissioners-at-Large.
   The office of Commission member shall be forfeited whenever a member is
finally convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude. When a
member files for election to or accepts any other elective public office, he
shall submit his resignation. This resignation shall be effective when his
former office is filled or when he accepts an elective office, whichever comes
first.
   Any qualified elector of the Town who meets the foregoing qualifications may
qualify for a Commission seat by presenting to the Town Clerk a petition signed
by twenty-five (25) qualified Town electors, and by paying a filing fee, during
the qualifying period as established from time to time in the town code of
ordinances, and said elector shall submit concurrently therewith a sworn
statement of his or her name, address, occupation, and willingness to serve if
elected. Until otherwise provided by Town ordinance, the filing fee shall be
ten dollars ($10.00).
   The Commission shall be the judge of the qualifications of the candidates
for election to the Commission, and for such purpose shall have the powers to
subpoena witnesses and require the production of evidence, but the decision of
the Commission in any such case shall be subject to review by the courts.
   Each person seeking to qualify for election to office as a write-in
candidate shall certify under oath to the Town Clerk during the qualifying
period as established from time to time in the town code of ordinances the
following information:
   Name, address, that he possessed all of the qualifications required by law
for the office, the name of the office he seeks, and that he will accept the
office.
   Failure to qualify as a write-in candidate shall mean that any write-in
votes cast for such person shall not be counted.
   At the time of certifying under oath the above information, a write-in
candidate shall be considered a candidate except that he shall not be entitled
to have his name printed on the ballot.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-4-86;
Ordinance 2001-01, passed 9-19-01)
Sec. 2.03. TERM OF OFFICE.
   (a)   Elected Commissioners shall take office at the beginning of the next
official meeting following the municipal election at which they were elected.
They shall hold office for a term of three (3) years, or until their successors
are elected and qualified, unless:
      (1)   The individual has been appointed or elected to fulfill the term of
a Commissioner-at-Large who has been removed from office other than by means of
recall, forfeited the office of Commissioner-at-Large, resigned, or the office
has become vacant due to the death of a Commissioner-at-Large. In such event, a
successor Commissioner-at-Large shall assume office in the manner set forth in
Section
2.04. in this Charter.
      (2)   The individual has been elected to fulfill the term of a
Commissioner-at-Large who has been recalled from said office by the electorate.
In such event a newly elected Commissioner-at-Large who is replacing a
Commissioner-at-Large recalled from office shall serve a term equal in time to
what would have otherwise been the time remaining in the term of the recalled
Commissioner-at-Large's term; or
      (3)   The individual is elected to fill a term otherwise consistent with
this Charter.
   (b)   Neither a commission member or the mayor may qualify for or serve more
than two (2) complete consecutive terms and the portion of an unexpired term
occurring by reason of a vacancy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an elected
city official, such as a commissioner, who has served the maximum time in
office as permitted by this paragraph, may qualify for and be elected to serve
in a different city elected office, such as mayor. Further, a commissioner or
the mayor who has served the maximum amount of time permitted by this sub-
section may again serve on the commission subject to the time and term
limitations of this sub-section; provided, that the official has not served on
the commission for at least one (1) year (three hundred sixty-five (365) days =
one (1) year). Any city elected official who resigns within one (1) year (three
hundred sixty-five (365) days = one (1) year) before the end of the second
consecutive term of office shall be prohibited from qualifying as a candidate
for a commission seat in the next regular city election. This paragraph shall
be applicable to any commission member or the mayor who, subsequent to the
election held on November 2, 2004, has served for two (2) complete consecutive
terms and which terms have been served in full after November 2, 2004.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-4-86;
Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-89; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-2-
04)
Sec. 2.04. VACANCIES ON THE COMMISSION.
   A vacancy shall occur upon the death, resignation, removal from office
(other than by recall) as authorized by law, or forfeiture of office of a
Commission member. When such a vacancy occurs, other than that of Mayor, the
remaining Commission members may select, by the affirmative vote of not less
than a majority of the remaining membership, a person to fill the vacancy. Such
an appointed person shall be a qualified elector in the Town, as specified in
this Charter, and shall serve until the next general municipal election, at
which time a candidate will be elected to serve a term equal in time to what
would have otherwise been the time remaining in the term of the Commissioner-
at-Large whose office has become vacant.
   In the event the office of Mayor is vacated, the Vice-Mayor assumes the
position until the next general municipal election, at which time a candidate
will be elected to serve for the remainder of the Mayor's unexpired term, and a
person is appointed or elected to fill the office of Commissioner-at-Large held
by the Vice-Mayor, all in accordance with the criteria and procedures herein
provided. Said individual succeeding to the position of Commissioner-at-Large,
formerly held by the Vice-Mayor, shall hold office only until the next general
municipal election.
   If the Commission shall fail to fill a vacancy on the Commission within
thirty (30) days after it occurs, or whenever two (2) or more vacancies shall
occur at the same time, the Mayor shall immediately call a special election to
fill the vacancy or vacancies. Those elected at the special election will serve
a term equal in time to what would have otherwise been the time remaining in
the term of the Commissioner-at-Large whose office has become vacant. Among the
successful candidates those receiving the largest number of votes shall be
declared elected for the longest terms.
   In no event shall the Commission consist of more than two (2) commissioners
serving on an appointive basis.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-4-86;
Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-89)
Sec. 2.05. PROHIBITION AGAINST EMPLOYMENT.
   No Commission member shall hold any other Town office or Town employment
during the term for which he was elected to the Commission.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.06. COMPENSATION.
   The salary of Commission members, together with the manner of payment, shall
be established by ordinance and shall be no greater than one (1) percent of the
annual Town budget. No increase in salary shall become effective until the next
regular Town election. The Commission may provide that members shall receive
their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.07. MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall qualify and run for office for a term of three (3) years as
hereinafter provided. He shall be a voting member of the Commission, the
presiding officer of the Commission, and the titular head of the Town
government for ceremonial purposes, and for the purpose of civil process. He
shall be responsible for civil defense and military law. He shall execute all
instruments to which the Town is a party as the Commission shall direct, unless
otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86)
Sec. 2.08. VICE-MAYOR.
   The Vice-Mayor shall be elected annually by the Commissioners from the body
of Commissioners-at-Large. Should the office of Mayor fall vacant, in
accordance with Section
2.04, the Vice-Mayor would become Mayor until the next general municipal
election, at which time a successor would be elected Mayor and the Vice-Mayor
temporarily filling the position of Mayor will return without election to a
Town Commission seat for the remainder of his or her term. In the absence or
disability of the Mayor, the Vice-Mayor shall act temporarily in his stead with
full powers to discharge the duties of the office so assumed.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-89;
Amendment adopted by electorate 11-2-04)
Sec. 2.09. COMMISSIONER-AT-LARGE.
   A total of four (4) Commissioners-at-Large shall qualify and run for the
four (4) seats. At the November, 1989 election, the two candidates receiving
the largest and second largest number of votes shall each be elected to three
(3) year terms, while the two candidates receiving the third and fourth largest
number of votes shall each be elected to two (2) year terms.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-89)
Sec. 2.10. ASSIGNMENT OF DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBILITIES. (Repealed 11-2-04)
Sec. 2.11. COMMISSION MEETING.
   The Commission shall meet regularly at the Town Hall or other municipal
building at such times and places as it may prescribe, but in no event less
than once each month. All Town business meetings of the Commission shall be
open to the public where required.
   Special meetings limited to the subjects specified in the call may be
convened by the Mayor, any one (1) Commission member, or the Town Manager, upon
at least twenty-four (24) hours' notice to each member and to the public. The
Commission shall provide, by ordinance, for the holding of an emergency meeting
and shall prescribe the means of serving or furnishing notice of emergency
meetings. Action taken at emergency meetings must be ratified at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Commission.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86;
Amendment adopted by electorate 11-2-04)
Sec. 2.12. LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE.
   Three (3) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a smaller
number may adjourn from day to day. No action of the Commission, except raising
a quorum, shall be valid or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of
at least three (3) members of the Commission. The Commission shall determine
its own rules and order of business and shall provide for the keeping of a
journal of its proceedings. The journal shall be a public record and shall be
open to public inspection. The Commission may prescribe for expulsion of
disorderly persons from its meetings.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-2-04)
Sec. 2.13. ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in the final
written or printed form required for adoption. The enacting clause of
ordinances shall recite: “Be it enacted by the Town of Melbourne Beach,
Florida.” No ordinance shall be passed until it has been read at two (2)
Commission meetings, not less than one (1) week apart, except that a second
reading, other than by title, may be dispensed with upon the unanimous
affirmative vote of the Commission members present.
   A proposed ordinance may be amended at either meeting. However, no ordinance
shall be amended at the second or later reading so as to change its intent
without a further complete reading of the affected portion at least one (1)
week later. The Commission shall provide for public hearings or for the
publication of notice concerning the subject matter of any proposed ordinance
or amendment. Ordinances and resolutions shall become effective upon passage
unless otherwise specified herein. Every ordinance and resolution shall, upon
final passage, be authenticated by the presiding officer and the Town Clerk,
and shall be recorded and published as the Commission shall prescribe.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.14. ORDINANCES BY REFERENDUM VOTE.
   The Commission may submit any proposed ordinance to a referendum vote of the
qualified voters without filing a petition request.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.15 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing sections, the Commission may
enact emergency ordinances to meet serious public emergencies affecting the
welfare of the Town or its inhabitants. An emergency ordinance shall be
introduced in the form and manner prescribed for ordinances generally, except
that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance. It may be
adopted with or without amendment at the meeting at which it is introduced.
Emergency ordinances shall expire thirty (30) days after enactment unless
sooner specified therein.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.16. PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Public notices shall be posted and/or published as prescribed by the
appropriate Town ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 2.17. COMMISSION ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS. (Repealed 11-2-04)
ARTICLE III. GENERAL TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 3.01. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TOWN COMMISSION.
   All powers of the Town shall be vested in an elected Commission, except as
otherwise provided by this Charter or by law. The Town Commission shall be
responsible to the citizens of Melbourne Beach for the proper functioning of
all Town affairs and to that end, subject to the provisions of this Charter,
shall have power and are required to:
   (a)   Appoint, and when necessary for the good of the Town, suspend or
remove, the Town Manager, Town Clerk or Town Attorney, or members of any board,
commission or agency, who are appointed by the Town Commission.
   (b)   Approve any additions or deletions of staff positions upon the
recommendation of the Town Manager. Such recommendations of the Town Manager
shall be made in conjunction with the proposed budget for the upcoming year, or
may be made at any other time if deemed necessary.
   (c)   Provide policy direction to, and exercise control over, the Town
Manager as may be required in his role as administrative head of the Town.
   (d)   Approve an annual Town budget and any amendments to the budget,
together with such other fiscal reports and programs as may be required, and
periodically review the financial status of the Town relative to the current
budget.
   (e)   Provide Town representation on intragovernmental groups when such
groups are composed principally of elected officials or when such
representation is deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (f)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or
resolution consistent with the concept of management of the Town expressed in
this Charter.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86)
Sec. 3.02. ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS OF TOWN GOVERNMENT.
   (a)   The Commission by ordinance may establish, abolish or reorganize, and
prescribe the composition, duties and functions of any Town departments,
agencies and offices.
   (b)   The Town Manager, as provided under Section
3.03, with the approval of the Commission, may be the head of any department.
The Town Commission may by ordinance authorize the Town Manager to create,
abolish or reorganize any departments or positions, and further to delegate any
of the duties and authorities of the Town Manager to said departments or
positions. The Town Manager shall remain responsible for proper execution of
all the functions of the Town Manager whether or not such functions have been
delegated by the Town Manager to other departments or positions.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86)
Sec. 3.03. OFFICE OF THE TOWN MANAGER.
   (a)   This office shall be headed by a Town Manager, who shall be appointed
by the Town Commission on the basis of his or her executive and administrative
qualifications. The Town Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of
the Town, and shall be directly responsible to the Commission for all Town
affairs placed in his or her charge by this Charter or by ordinance or
resolution. The Town Manager when necessary shall appoint, suspend, demote or
dismiss any Town employee under his or her jurisdiction in accordance with the
law and the personnel rules, and may authorize any Department Head to exercise
these powers with respect to subordinates in that department. The Town Manager
shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments of the Town
except the Office of Town Attorney, and shall attend all Commission meetings
unless excused by the Commission, and shall have the right to take part in
discussions, but not vote. He or she shall see that all laws, Charter
provisions, ordinances, resolutions, and other acts of the Commission subject
to enforcement by him or her are faithfully executed. The Town Manager shall
also prepare and submit the annual budget, budget message, and capital program
to the commission, and shall keep the Commission fully advised as to the
financial condition and future needs of the Town, and shall be responsible for
adhering to the approved budget. The Town Manager shall make such
recommendations to the Commission concerning the affairs of the Town as he or
she deems advisable. The Town Manager shall endorse all instruments in writing
in which the Town is interested, sign Town checks as authorized by the Town
Commission, and execute contracts on behalf of the Town, unless the Commission
shall otherwise provide. The Town Manager shall by letter designate an Acting
Town Manager to exercise his or her powers and perform his or her duties during
temporary absences or disability of the Town Manager. The Commission may revoke
such designation at any time and appoint another eligible person to serve as
Acting Town Manager.
   (b)   Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations, the Town
Commission or its members shall not give orders or directions to any officer or
employee of the Town who is under the direction and supervision of the Town
Manager, and shall deal with such officers and employees only through the Town
Manager.
(Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-5-
19)
Sec. 3.04. OFFICE OF THE TOWN CLERK.
   This office shall be headed by a Town Clerk hired by the Town Manager to
serve the Commission. The salary of the Town Clerk shall be fixed by the
Commission. The Town Manager shall have exclusive supervisory authority over
the Town Clerk as a Town employee, including the authority to manage,
discipline, and terminate consistent with the Town’s employment policies,
without consent of the Town Commission. The Clerk shall be: Clerk of the
Commission and shall keep the Commission journal; custodian of ordinances,
resolutions, and such other official records as the Commission may prescribe;
attestor to contracts, bonds, and other instruments as may be prescribed by
law; chief registration and elections officer of the Town; and responsible for
other duties so prescribed by the Town Commission or Town Manager.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86; Am.
Ord. 2017-02, adopted 8-16-17; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-17)
Sec. 3.05. OFFICE OF THE TOWN ATTORNEY.
   This office shall be held by an attorney, appointed by the Commission. The
salary of the Town Attorney shall be fixed by the Commission. The Town Attorney
shall be legal advisor and attorney to the officers of the Town in matters
affecting the Town or relating to their official duties; prosecute and defend
in behalf of the Town all civil actions in which the Town is a party; prepare
and endorse written instruments in which the Town is concerned; be prosecutor
in the Town court; and perform other duties as the Commission may require or as
may be prescribed by general state law, consistent with this Charter and with
ordinances or resolutions of the Commission. One or more assistants may perform
any duties of the Town Attorney. The Town Attorney and his assistants shall be
lawyers admitted to and having authority to practice in all courts of the
state, as well as the Federal District Court.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86)
Sec. 3.06. POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall be responsible for the enforcement of federal
and state laws and Town ordinances.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 9-2-86)
Sec. 3.06A. LAW ENFORCEMENT AND POLICE PROTECTION.  
   Before any arrangement is entered into that would materially change the
existing arrangement for law enforcement and police protection, including the
utilization of the Brevard County Sheriff's Department or the police department
of any other political entity, the matter will be brought before the people in
a referendum.
(Amendment adopted by electorate 11-4-86)
Sec. 3.07. RESERVED.
Sec. 3.08. RESERVED.
Sec. 3.09. RESERVED.
Sec. 3.10. INDEPENDENT AUDITS.
   The Commission shall designate qualified Certified Public Accountants who
shall make an independent audit of accounts and financial transactions of the
Town government and the several units thereof as of the end of each fiscal
year. The Commission may provide for more frequent audits of the Town
government. A copy of each audit shall be filed with the Legislative Auditor of
the State of Florida.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 3.11 CODE OF ETHICS.
   The following code of ethics shall apply to all officers and employees of
the municipality, whether elected or appointed, paid or unpaid. By majority
vote of the Commissioners, the Commission may vote to censure a member for
violating this code. No officer or employee of the Town shall knowingly:
   (a)   Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other
personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper
discharge of his official duties or would tend to impair his independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his official duties;
   (b)   Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private
interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper
discharge of his official duties, or would tend to impair his independence of
judgment or action in the performance of his official duties;
   (c)   Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government,
or affairs of the governmental body by which he is employed, without proper
legal authorization, or use such information to advance the financial or other
private interest of himself or others;
   (d)   Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing,
or promise, from any person, firm, or corporation which to his knowledge is
interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in business dealings
with the governmental body by which he is employed; provided, however, that any
such officer or employee who is a candidate for public office may accept
campaign contributions and services in connection with any such campaign;
   (e)   Represent private interests in any action or proceeding against the
governmental body by which he is employed;
   (f)   Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or the making of any
contract involving the Town with any business or entity in which he has a
financial interest;
   (g)   Have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any
contract or matter pending before or within any department of the Town, [and if
so] shall disclose such private interest on the records of the Commission, and
shall disqualify himself from participating in any decision or vote relating
thereto;
   (h)   Use property owned by such governmental body for personal benefit,
convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies of the Commission; or
   (i)   Violate the Code of Ethics for Public Officers and Employees or the
Florida Election Code, as set forth in Florida Statutes, and implementing rules
thereof, and if a Town officer or employee has been found to have violated the
Code of Ethics for Public Officers and Employees by the Florida Commission on
Ethics or the Florida Election Code by the Florida Elections Commission, or
implementing rules thereof, he or she may be censured by the Town Commission.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by the electorate 11-2-04)
Sec. 3.12. ADVISORY BOARDS.
   The Commission may establish advisory boards to make recommendations
concerning economic development, recreation, parks, playgrounds, and their
facilities and activities as well as planning and zoning and such other
municipal functions as the Commission deems advisable. Such boards shall be
composed of a representative membership of registered electors of the Town.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
ARTICLE IV. JUDICIAL SYSTEM
(Repealed 11-2-04)
ARTICLE V. ELECTORAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 5.01. ELECTORS.
   Any person who is a resident of the Town and registered through the County
registration system shall be an elector of the Town.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 5.02. ELECTION ORDINANCES.
   Regulations for the conduct and supervision of local elections shall be
established by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 5.03. TIME AND MANNER OF ELECTIONS.
   Regular Town elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November each year. The candidate receiving the highest number of
votes on the votes cast in the election shall be declared elected. When more
than one vacancy for a Commission seat at large exists, that number of
candidates receiving the most votes shall be elected.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 5.04. DISCLOSURE OF EXPENSES.
   The Town Commission shall provide, by ordinance, for a system whereby all
candidates for elective office in the Town shall report to the Town Clerk all
expenses and contributions of said election campaign. Such reports shall be
available to the public.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
ARTICLE VI. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM, RECALL
Editor's note: Article VI is applicable unless otherwise governed by F.S. §§
166.031, 171.0413, and 171.051.
Sec. 6.01. PROPOSED ORDINANCES.
   The electors of the Town shall have power to propose ordinances to the
Commission. Any proposed ordinance, including ordinances for the repeal or
amendment of ordinances then in effect, may be submitted to the Commission by
petitions signed by at least twenty (20) percent of the total number of
qualified registered voters in the municipality. All petitions circulated with
respect to any proposed ordinance shall be uniform in character, shall contain
the proposed ordinance in full, each signer of the petition shall sign his name
and street address in ink and shall place on the petition opposite his name the
date of his signature. The signatures on any such petition need not all be
appended to one paper but to each page of said petition there shall be attached
an affidavit by the circulars thereof stating the number of signers to the
portion of the petition so circulated and that each signature appended to the
petition is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be
and that said petition was signed in the presence of the affiant and on the
date indicated.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 6.02. REPEAL OR AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY ELECTORAL VOTE.
   No ordinance adopted by an electoral vote shall be repealed or amended
except by an electoral vote. An ordinance to repeal or amend any such ordinance
may, by resolution of the Commission, be submitted to an electoral vote at any
regular election, providing public notice of the intention is given by the
Commission not more than sixty (60) nor less than thirty (30) days prior to
such election.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 6.03. CERTIFICATION OF PETITIONS.
   Under the initiative and the referendum it shall be the duty of the Town
Clerk to assemble all copies of any petitions filed as one instrument and to
examine the same and ascertain and certify within twenty (20) days whether the
signatures thereon amount to at least twenty (20) percent of the qualified
registered voters who signed same. If the petition does not meet the
requirements, notice of such shall be given to the party submitting the
petition at once.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 6.04. ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   If said petitions comply with the requirements of this Charter, it shall be
the duty of the Commission to forthwith order and fix a date for the holding of
an initiative or referendum election, as the case may be, and notice of such
election shall be given for a period of not less than thirty (30) days. Any and
all initiative or referendum elections shall be held and conducted in the same
manner as any general or special election of the Town of Melbourne Beach. Any
ordinance approved by a majority of those voting in any initiative election
shall thereupon become a valid ordinance of the Town of Melbourne Beach.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 6.05. RECALL.
   Any Commissioner, including Commissioners-at-Large and the Mayor, of the
Town may be recalled and removed from the office by the electors of the Town in
the manner provided by Florida Statutes, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-7-89)
Sec. 6.06. REZONING APPROVAL.
   No rezoning of one single parcel of property or group of parcels of
properties shall be effective that changes the zoning district classification
from one zoning district to another zoning district until the rezoning proposal
shall be approved by a majority of the Town electorate voting in a general or
special election. The foregoing requirement to submit a rezoning proposal to
the Town electorate shall only be effective if the Town Commission first
certifies that submitting the rezoning proposal to the Town electorate is not
prohibited by Florida law. Prior to any proposal being placed on the ballot, to
the extent required by law the Town government shall make a determination
whether the proposed rezoning is consistent with the Town's comprehensive plan.
This provision shall apply regardless of whether the rezoning proposal is
initiated by a property owner, member of the general public, the Town, or other
person, natural, corporate, or otherwise.
(Adopted by electorate 11-8-05; Am. Ord. 2011-05, adopted 8-17-11; Amendment
adopted by electorate 11-8-11)
Sec. 6.07. HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The building height permitted on any parcel of land by the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, as the Code exists on
September 1, 2006, may be increased only after any such increase shall have
been first approved by the electors of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, in
a referendum election proposing such an increase. The cost of any such
referendum election shall be borne by the person, group, or entity proposing
the increase.
(Adopted by electorate 11-7-06)
ARTICLE VII. BONDS
Sec. 7.01. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE.
   Whenever it shall be deemed advisable to issue bonds of the Town of
Melbourne Beach for any lawful municipal purpose, refunding previous bonds and
interest and other obligations, for raising money to be used for said lawful
purpose, the Commission in their corporate capacity are hereby authorized, in
compliance with the Constitution and laws of the State of Florida, to issue the
bonds of said Town, under the seal of the municipality. However, any general
obligation bonds pledging the full faith and credit of the Town shall not be
issued unless approved by referendum by a majority vote of the qualified
elector of this Town.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
Sec. 8.01. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for Town government shall conform to the Florida Statutes.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.02. PREPARATION OF BUDGET.
   The Department of Finance shall have the responsibility for preparing the
proposed budget.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.03. PUBLIC HEARING ON THE BUDGET. (Repealed 11-2-04)
Sec. 8.04. ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET.
   After the public hearing, the Commission shall adopt by resolution by vote
of at least a majority of the Commission membership a final budget for the
Town. In adopting the final budget, the Commission may amend the proposed
budget by adding, increasing, deleting, or decreasing any programs or amounts,
other than expenditures required by law or for debt service. Total proposed
expenditures in the final budget shall not exceed total anticipated revenues.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.05. EFFECT OF FINAL BUDGET AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   From the effective date of the final budget, the amounts stated therein as
proposed expenditures shall be and become appropriated to the designated
purpose and objects. The amounts stated therein as amounts to be raised by
taxes shall constitute determinations of the amount of tax levies for Town
government purposes for the fiscal year. Taxes so levied shall be certified by
the Town Clerk upon adoption of the final budget. The Clerk shall make
available copies of the final budget to Town officers and interested persons.
   The final budget shall be adopted prior to the start of the next fiscal
year.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.06. TAX AUTHORITY.
   The Town Commission shall have full power and authority to levy taxes upon
all property, privileges, and professions which are taxable in accordance with
the laws of the state.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.07. TAX ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.
   The Commission is authorized to provide by ordinance for the assessment or
collection, or both, of ad valorem taxes by the Brevard County Tax Collector
and Assessor.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.08. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Commission is authorized to provide improvements and to levy and collect
special assessments against the property benefited as prescribed by Florida
Statutes.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 8.09. PUBLIC MONIES.
   All public monies, excepting pension funds, shall be deposited in the name
of the Town of Melbourne Beach in such qualified public depositories as defined
by and designated pursuant to Chapter 280, Florida Statutes, funds,
investments, or accounts as designated by the Town Commission; provided, that
all public monies shall be deposited or invested in a manner not inconsistent
with Florida law. All public monies shall be disbursed in such a manner so that
a written record shall be created and maintained pursuant to standards adopted
by the State of Florida Auditor General (or said Auditor’s designated successor
as provided by law), and if no standards shall have been adopted by the Auditor
General, then said written records of disbursal shall be created and maintained
pursuant to generally accepted accounting standards as recommended by the
Town’s auditors and adopted by the Town.
   Any person performing any duties in which he collects, receives, or handles
any public monies must qualify under a blanket bond.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73; Amendment adopted by electorate 11-2-04;
Amendment adopted by electorate 11-3-09)
Sec. 8.10. FRANCHISES.
   Franchises shall be granted as prescribed by ordinance.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
ARTICLE IX. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 9.01 ACTIONS AGAINST THE TOWN.
   No action shall be maintained against the Town for damage, injury, death, or
other loss arising out of accident, or the alleged failure to keep in proper
condition any public properties or places, or any alleged or imputed negligence
of the Town or any of its officers or employees, unless:
   (a)   It shall appear that the loss was directly caused by negligence of the
Town or some Town officer or employee exercising his duty; and
   (b)   Written notice of such loss shall have been given to the Town within
sixty (60) days after the occurrence of the accident or other event causing the
loss, by the injured party or his agent or attorney; and
   (c)   Such notice contains such reasonable specifications as to time, place,
and witnesses as will enable the Town to investigate the matter.
   The Town may make such reasonable settlement of any such loss as may be
agreed upon by the Commission.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.02. EXTENSION OF TERRITORIAL LIMITS.
Editor's note:  Sec. 9.02. is applicable unless otherwise governed by F.S.
Chapter 171.
   In addition to other means of annexation provided by Florida Statutes, the
Town is authorized to annex by ordinance an area contiguous to the existing
Town boundaries.
   A petition signed by a majority of landowners of that area may be presented
to the Commission. Upon approval by a referendum vote of the electors of the
Town, the Commission shall by ordinance annex to the Town the area described in
the petition. The Commission may, prior to the annexation and as a condition
thereof, make such requirements as it deems appropriate relative to plats,
streets, curbs, sidewalks, sewers, water mains, and similar facilities in the
area to be annexed.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.03 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   The Town Commission shall appoint an advisory board, known as the Planning
and Zoning Board, which shall recommend to the Commission appropriate
regulations to be enforced. Such Planning and Zoning Board shall hold public
hearings on the Board's proposed changes before submitting its report. The
Commission shall not take action until it has received the report of the
Advisory Board. Zoning standards, as a minimum, shall conform to county zoning
standards.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.04. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Town Commission shall establish a Board of Adjustment whose duties and
authority shall be as provided by Florida Statutes and by Town ordinances.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.05. CHARTER AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   This Charter or any portion thereof may be amended or revised in accordance
with the Florida Statutes.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.06. CONFLICTING LAWS.
   All laws and parts of laws, ordinances, or regulations, insofar as they
conflict with or are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act be and the
same are hereby repealed.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.07. SEVERABILITY.
   If any article, section, or portion of article or section of the Act shall
be held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not
affect the remainder of this Act not the context in which such article,
section, or portion of an article or section so held invalid may appear, except
to the extent that an entire article or part of an article or section or part
of a section may be inseparable connected in meaning and effect with that
portion of the Act to which the holding shall directly apply.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
Sec. 9.08. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Charter shall take effect immediately as of the date said Charter is
filed with the Department of State, Secretary of State.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Article I. General; Interpretation
   
1-1   Title of code
   
1-2   Interpretation
   
1-3   Application to future ordinances
   
1-4   Captions
   
1-5   Definitions
   
1-6   Rules of interpretation
   
1-7   Severability
   
1-8   Reference to other sections
   
1-9   Reference to offices
   
1-10   Errors and omissions
   
1-11   Official time
   
1-12   Reasonable time
   
1-13   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-14   When former ordinance repealed
   
1-15   Ordinances unaffected
   
1-16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
1-17   Effective date of ordinances
   
1-18   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
1-19   Section histories; statutory references
   
1-20   Rules of procedure
   
1-21   Legislative procedure
   
1-22   Amendment to code
   
1-23   Supplementation of code
   
1-24   Altering code
   
1-25   Official Seal
   
1-26   Minutes
   1-27 – 1-39   Reserved
Article II. Indemnification; Contracts with Town
   
1-40   Indemnification
Article III. Reserved
   1-41 – 1-98   Reserved
Article IV. Penalties
   
1-99   General penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL; INTERPRETATION
§ 1-1. TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Melbourne
Beach, shall be designated as the Code of Melbourne Beach, and may be so cited.
§ 1-2. INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this Code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 1-3. APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this article compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this Code or
its appendices, unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 1-4. CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this Code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 1-5. DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (b)   For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLE. A division of a chapter, designated in this Code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapter have articles.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal Code as modified
by amendment, revision, deletion or adoption of new titles, chapters, sections,
sentences, phrases or words.
   COUNTY. Brevard County, Florida, a political subdivision of the State of
Florida.
   MAY. Except as may be set forth in the town's Comprehensive Plan, MAY means
that the act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. Thirty consecutive days.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear” and “sworn” shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. A person, persons, firm, corporation, partnership, trustee, lessee,
receiver or other legal entity. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON OR WHOEVER, as applied to any
unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. A mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Florida.
   TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Melbourne Beach,
Florida.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
“Year of our Lord.”
§ 1-6. RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (1)   “And” or “or.” Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy of the town as well may do as the
principal, such requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act
by an authorized agent or deputy of the town.
   (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 1-7. SEVERABILITY.
   If any word, clause, sentence, paragraph or section hereof shall be found to
be illegal, unenforceable or unconstitutional for any reason, said word,
clause, sentence or paragraph or section shall be severed from this Code and
this Code shall be read as if said illegal, unenforceable or unconstitutional
work, clause, sentence, paragraph or section did not exist.
§ 1-8. REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 1-9. REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 1-10. ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 1-11. OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 1-12. REASONABLE TIME.
   (a)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (b)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 1-13. CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those
of ordinances existing prior to the adoption of this Code, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments. When any ordinance which
has repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous ordinance shall not
be revived without express words to that effect, unless the ordinance repealing
it is passed during the same session of the Commission.
§ 1-14. WHEN FORMER ORDINANCE REPEALED.
   A new ordinance shall not be construed to repeal a former ordinance, as to
any offense committed against the former ordinance, any act done and penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued, or claim arising under
the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense or act
so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or
any right accrued, or claim arising before the new ordinance takes effect.
§ 1-15. ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed
to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following when not
inconsistent with this Code:
   (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town, or any evidence of
the town's indebtedness or any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other
instrument or obligation assumed by the town;
   (2)   Any right or franchise, permit or other right granted by any
ordinance;
   (3)   Any ordinance establishing positions, classifying positions and
setting salaries of town officers or employees;
   (4)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, alley or other
public way in the town;
   (5)   Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades in the
town;
   (6)   Any personnel regulations;
   (7)   Any land use or zoning ordinance designating the permitted,
conditionally permitted or prohibited uses of land;
   (8)   Any ordinance annexing territory or excluding territory from the town
or redefining the boundaries of the town;
   (9)   Any appropriation ordinance or any ordinance levying or imposing
taxes;
   (10)   Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and
assessing taxes or special assessments therefor;
   (11)   Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any plat or
subdivision in the town;
   (12)   Any ordinance establishing the official plat of the town, the zoning
map or any amendments thereof not included herein;
   (13)   Any ordinance prescribing temporary traffic and parking regulations
for specific streets and locations; or
   (14)   Any temporary or special ordinance.
§ 1-16. REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances, each of a general nature in conflict
with ordinances appearing in this Code, but only such ordinances or parts of
ordinances as are in conflict herewith, are hereby repealed; however, nothing
herein contained shall be construed or taken as repealing or amending any of
the provisions of any ordinance heretofore adopted as to any offense committed
against the provisions of the ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred under or by reason of the ordinance, prior to
the time this Code takes effect, except as provided herein.
§ 1-17. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
   (b)   Every proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in the
final written or printed form required for adoption. The enacting clause of
ordinances shall recite: “Be it enacted by the Town of Melbourne Beach,
Florida.” Except for emergency ordinances adopted as provided by state law, no
ordinance shall be passed until it has been read at two Commission meetings,
not less than one week apart, except that a second reading, other than by
title, may be dispensed with upon the unanimous affirmative vote of the
Commission members present.
   (c)   A proposed ordinance may be amended at either meeting. However, no
ordinance shall be amended at the second or later reading so as to materially
alter said ordinance without a further complete reading of the affected portion
at least one week later. The Commission shall provide for public hearings or
for the publication of notice concerning the subject matter of any proposed
ordinance or amendment. Ordinances and resolutions shall become effective upon
passage unless otherwise specified herein. Every ordinance and resolution
shall, upon final passage, be authenticated by the presiding officer and the
Town Clerk and shall be recorded and published as the Commission shall
prescribe.
§ 1-18. REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (b)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 1-19. SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (a)   As histories for the Code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, shall be
listed following the test of the Code section.
Example: (Ord. 10, adopted 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, adopted 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20,
adopted 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, adopted 1-1-85)
   (b)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (§ 166.021, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 10, adopted 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
adopted 1-1-85).
   (c)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to the
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31-10. Mayor.
   The Mayor shall preside at all Commission meetings. (Ord. 10, adopted 1-1-
80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see § 166.021, Fla. Stat.
   (d)   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code
are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate
the source of matter contained in the section.
§ 1-20. RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All town boards and committees and the Town Commission shall utilize
Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, most recent edition, which rules of
procedure shall govern the conduct of all Town Commission meetings. The
Commission, or in the case of appointed boards or committees, shall have the
authority by a two-thirds vote of the Town Commission or the membership of said
board or committee to provide for additional or amended rules of procedures.
(Am. Ord. 2011-01, adopted 3-16-11)
§ 1-21. LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE.
   Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a smaller
number may adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent
members in such manner and under such penalties as the Commission may
prescribe. No action of the Commission, except raising a quorum, shall be valid
or binding unless adopted by the affirmative vote of at least three members of
the Commission. The Commission shall provide for its own rules of procedures
and order of business and for the keeping of a journal of its proceedings. The
journal shall be a public record and shall be open to public inspection. The
Commission may prescribe for expulsion of disorderly persons from its meetings.
(Adopted by electorate 11-6-73)
§ 1-22. AMENDMENT TO CODE.
   (a)   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which
amend, repeal or in any way affect the same may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from
reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted
in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent
ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new Code by the Commission.
   (b)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in substantially the following language: “That Section         of the Town
Code of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, is hereby amended to read as
follows:....” The new provisions should then be set out in full as desired, and
by use of stricken through text all deletions of existing text shall be noted.
In the case of new wording, all new test shall be underlined. In the event that
the Commission, Town Attorney or Town Clerk shall deem such revisions or
amendments to be substantial and the use of stricken through and underlined
text is found to be confusing, only the new text need be shown. However,
immediately preceding the revised provision, the following note and section
reference shall appear:
   [Substantial Rewording of Language. See
   Section       .]
   (c)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added,
the following language is suggested: “That the Town Code of the Town of
Melbourne Beach, Florida, is hereby amended by adding a Section, to be numbered
      , which said section reads as follows:....” The new section should then
be set out in full as desired and underlined to depict the language as new
language.
   (d)   All sections, titles, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number,
as the case may be.
('80 Code, § 1-9)
§ 1-23. SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (a)   By contract or independent contractors or by town personnel,
supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or
directed by the Commission. A supplement to the Code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the town or
adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the
supplement, and all changes made thereby in the Code shall also include all
amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be
so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” etc., as the case may be, or
to “sections       to       ” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated in to the Code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
§ 1-24. ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be an offense against the town for any person to change or amend by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented
thereby.
('80 Code, § 1-10)
§ 1-25. OFFICIAL SEAL
   (a)   The official seal of the town is hereby adopted by the Town
Commission. The seal includes the words "TOWN OF MELBOURNE BEACH, FLORIDA",
"FOUNDED 1883", and the word "SEAL". The following symbol is hereby designated
to be the official seal of the town:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e0bd313f68578e206ebe917ba6cad23e623523e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6394.gif]
 
   (b)   In accordance with the Florida Statutes, the manufacture, use,
display, or other employment of any facsimile or reproduction of the municipal
seal, except by municipal officials or employees in the performance of their
official duties, without the express approval of the Town Commission is a
second-degree misdemeanor, punishable as provided by Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2000-01, adopted 3-15-00)
§ 1-26. MINUTES.
   (a)   Intent. The intent of this code section is to ensure that information
and decisions made by the town commission, planning and zoning board, and board
of adjustment meetings are available for the public in a timely manner, unless
there is a significant public policy to the contrary or unless the minutes have
been derived from a meeting permitted to be closed to the public by state law.
   (b)   Definition. Unless the context of usage shall affirmatively and
clearly indicate to the contrary, the following terms as set forth in this
section shall be defined as set forth herein:
      AUDIO RECORDING. A recording made by the town government of a meeting, in
whole or in part, which reproduces and preserves only the audio sounds and
vocalizations occurring at said meeting.
      MINUTES. The term “minutes” shall mean and refer to a brief summary or
series of brief notes or memoranda of a proceeding or transaction at meetings
of the town commission or town boards. The minutes are intended to describe
what was done at a meeting. The term shall not refer to a word for word or
verbatim transcript of a proceeding or an audio or video recording of a
meeting.
      VIDEO RECORDING. A recording made by the Town government of a meeting, in
whole or in part, which reproduces and preserves the video  pictures, or video
and audio sounds and vocalizations, occurring at said meeting.
Editor’s note:
   Town Commission's Intent: This definition is derived from opinions of the
state Attorney General, including A.G.O. 82-47 and 75-45, as well as Robert's
Rules of Order. Newly Revised (9th ed.)
   (c)   Content of minutes.
      (1)   The minutes should never reflect the opinion of the person drafting
the minutes (such as the Town Clerk or a board secretary), favorable or
otherwise, on anything done at a meeting.
      (2)   The minutes shall include:
         (A)   a reference to the type of meeting held: regular, special,
workshop, etc.;
         (B)   the name of the town commission, board, or otherwise holding the
meeting;
         (C)   the date of the meeting, the time at which the meeting was
called to order, and the location at which the meeting was held;
         (D)   the name of the person presiding at the meeting, as well as the
names of all members of the commission, board, or other group at the meeting,
the names of appointive town officers present, the name of the person taking
minutes at the meeting, the names of all members of the commission, board, or
other group absent from the meeting, and, if appropriate, whether the absent
individual was excused from attendance;
         (E)   whether any draft minutes of previous meetings were presented,
any corrections or amendments made to the draft minutes, and the vote by which
the draft minutes were approved;
         (F)   the minutes shall be prepared in a manner and with separate
sections and titles for each item that corresponds to the title and item number
as presented on the official agenda for the meeting. However, the order of
separate agenda items and sections shall be ordered in the minutes in the order
in which the individual items were discussed at the meeting rather than the
order in which the agenda listed the items for discussion;
         (G)   each motion made by a commissioner or board member, which motion
shall recite the wording in which each motion was adopted, withdrawn, or
otherwise acted or disposed of;
         (H)   the name of the person making or seconding the motion, whether
procedural or substantive in nature;
         (I)   any nominations made as well as the name of the person making
the nomination;
         (J)   the vote upon each motion. On final passage of an ordinance by
the town commission, the vote of each member shall be recorded in the minutes;
         (K)   the name of any member abstaining from voting and the reason for
the abstention. State commission on ethics voting conflict of interest forms
filed by a commission or board member shall be incorporated in the minutes;
         (L)   the name and, if possible, the address of each person addressing
the town commission or board and a brief synopsis of the general nature of the
statement that said person made to the town commission or board;
         (M)   the name and subject of any guest speakers; and
         (N)   the signature of the town clerk or other board secretary
preparing the minutes and of the presiding officer should be placed at the end
of the minutes after the minutes are in final form and have been approved.
      (3)   The minutes may have attached to the minutes an explanation of why
a member of the town commission voted in a particular manner. Said explanation
shall not be subject to a vote by the other commissioners and shall not exceed
250 words. The explanation must be submitted by the agenda closing date for the
meeting at which approval of the minutes to which the statement is to be
attached shall be considered by the town commission. Said explanation shall not
contrast the commissioner''s vote with other members of the town commission.
Said explanation shall show respect for the position of other commissioners and
shall merely explain why the commissioner voted as he or she did. The
explanation may be expunged from the minutes and maintained as a separate
public record by a majority vote of the commission for failure to adhere to
this paragraph.
      (4)   A copy of the agenda for the meeting shall be maintained as a cover
sheet with each set of approved meeting minutes.
   (d)   Posting and preparation of minutes.
      (1)   Posting of draft minutes.
         (A)   Unless the minutes have been derived from a meeting permitted to
be closed to the public by state law, a draft of minutes from town commission,
planning and zoning board, and board of adjustment meetings should be posted,
if possible, on the town web-site on the world wide web within five town
business days after the date of the meeting, provided that any portion of the
minutes deemed potentially adverse to the welfare of the town by the town clerk
or town attorney may be deleted from the version of the minutes posted on the
town web-site until the matter is considered by the town commission or other
board at the time of approval of the minutes. The minutes shall be
conspicuously labeled as “DRAFT MINUTES – These minutes are not official until
approved by the “[insert name of approving commission or board].” Draft minutes
shall be considered to be a public record once they have been completed by the
town clerk or applicable board secretary.
         (B)   If the town clerk, town manager, or the town commission
determines that minutes of a particular meeting are critical to a debate on an
upcoming town commission agenda, the town clerk shall attempt to prepare draft
minutes and distribute them to the town commission prior to the meeting, unless
excused from doing so by the mayor. Draft minutes shall be considered to be a
public record once they have been completed by the town clerk.
      (2)   Posting of approved minutes. Unless minutes have been derived from
a meeting permitted to be closed to the public by state law or unless technical
difficulties exist in the preparation of the minutes, approved minutes (as
approved by the commission or board from which the minutes are derived) from
town commission, planning and zoning board, and board of adjustment meetings
shall be posted on the town web-site on the world wide web within three
business days after the date of the meeting at which the minutes were finally
approved. Minutes derived from a meeting permitted to be closed to the public
by state law need not be posted on the town web-site unless affirmatively so
required by the government-in-the-sunshine act, § 286.011(2), Fla. Stat.
   (e)   Audio or video recordings of town commission or board meetings.
      (1)   Video recordings of town commission or board meetings shall not be
required to be made by the town.
      (2)   Audio recordings of town commission, planning and zoning, board of
adjustment, or code enforcement special magistrate meetings should be made,
unless:
         (A)   the meeting is closed to the public and exempt from the
government-in-the-sunshine act, § 286.011(2), Fla. Stat.;
         (B)   technical difficulties make it infeasible or impractical to have
an audio recording; or
         (C)   the town commission votes affirmatively to excuse the audio
recording of a meeting, if permitted by the public records law, Ch. 119, Fla.
Stat.
      (3)   Posting of audio recordings on town website . The audio recording
of town commission, planning and zoning board, and board of adjustment meetings
should be posted on the town web-site on the world wide web within 48 hours
after the date of the meeting, Saturdays, Sundays and town holidays excluded.
Audio recordings of code enforcement special magistrate meetings are not
required to be posted on the town web-site.
   (f)   Significance of minutes of town commission or board meetings.
      (1)   Minutes are required by the government-in-the-sunshine act, §
286.011(2), Fla. Stat. Minutes shall provide a summary of events that
transpired at a meeting but need not be verbatim, word for word transcripts of
a meeting. Minutes shall include any statements, or portions thereof, or a
summary thereof, that the town commission, board, town attorney, or board
attorney asks to be included in the minutes for the purpose of clarifying the
intent of the town commission or board members.
      (2)   While video or audio recordings may be used to record a meeting in
toto, written, draft minutes of such meeting must be prepared, unless the
meeting is held in executive session and excused by a reasonable reading of the
government-in-the- sunshine act, § 286.011(2), Fla. Stat. Written minutes are
intended to provide a summary of a meeting which, when unclear on any point or
when a reader of the minutes desires additional information, may be clarified
by resort to an audio, or video (if any), recording of a meeting. The written
minutes and tape or audio recordings must be preserved and retained and shall
not be disposed of, except in compliance with the provisions of §§ 119.021 and
257.36, Fla. Stat., provided that tape or audio recordings must be maintained
for at least ten years, or until said recordings shall dissipate through
natural processes so as to be substantially indiscernible, whichever event
shall first occur. Any such tape or audio recording of a public meeting
constitutes a public record within the definitional purview of the state’s
public record law in Ch. 119, Fla. Stat. and is thereby subject to public
inspection thereof, unless state or federal law provides that said tape or
audio recording is exempt from the state’s public record law or otherwise
confidential.
(Ord. 2001-01, adopted 3-16-11; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
Editor’s note:
   Town commission's intent: Portions of this language is derived from an
opinion of the state Attorney General in A.G.O. 75-45.
§§ 1-27. – 1-39. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. INDEMNIFICATION; CONTRACTS WITH TOWN
§ 1-40. INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   To be valid and binding against the town, any contract of
indemnification, agreement to hold another party harmless, or offer to
indemnify or hold another party harmless, in which the town is an interested
party and indemnifies or holds harmless another person or legal entity must be
signed, endorsed, or executed as otherwise provided by this Code and the Town
Charter. No contract of indemnification, agreement to hold another party
harmless, or offer to indemnify or hold another party harmless, in which the
town is an interested party and indemnifies, or holds harmless another person
or legal entity shall be valid and binding against the town, unless said
indemnification has been approved by the Town Commission and is otherwise
consistent with this Code.
   (b)   Adding a party to an insurance policy of the town as an “additional
insured” shall not be considered to be an act of indemnification or an
agreement to otherwise hold another party harmless pursuant to this section.
   (c)   Any contract in which the town is an interested party which is signed
or executed in violation of this section is an ultra vires act and is null and
void.
(Ord. 2008-01, adopted 2-20-08)
ARTICLE III. RESERVED
§§ 1-41. – 1-98. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PENALTIES
§ 1-99. GENERAL PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, an offense or
a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
any such provisions of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or by both fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the judge of the court having jurisdiction
of the matter. Each day any violation of any provision of the Code shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the town, abated, corrected,
restrained or enjoined as provided by law. Each day that such condition
continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
('75 Code, § 1-8) (Am. Ord. 86-1, adopted 2-25-86)
CHAPTER 10: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
10-1   Salary of Mayor and Town Commission
   
10-2   Legal defense; Commissioners, officers, and employees
   10-3 – 10-99   Reserved
§ 10-1. SALARY OF MAYOR AND TOWN COMMISSION.
   (a)   There shall be paid to the Mayor by the town as compensation the sum
of $3,800 per year, payable in 12 equal installments, and there shall be paid
to the other members of the Town Commission by the town as compensation the sum
of $3,100 per year, payable in 12 equal installments. Compensation shall be
paid once per calendar month on a regular schedule as provided by the Town
Manager.
   (b)   Commissioners shall receive no regular compensation to compensate for
expenses, but members of the Commission may seek reimbursement for actual and
necessary expenses related to their duties as a member of the Commission.
Compensation shall be reimbursed pursuant to Section 112.061, Florida Statutes,
and for that purpose, members of the Commission are hereby designated as
“travelers of the town”.
   (c)   The compensation provisions set forth in this section shall become
effective on November 8, 2000.
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 3-15-00)
§ 10-2. LEGAL DEFENSE; COMMISSIONERS, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   As used in this section, unless the context utilized clearly states to
the contrary, the following terms are defined as follows:
      (1)   "Agent" shall include and be limited to members of town boards and
individuals approved by the Town Manager to act as volunteers in the service of
the town and so acting.
      (2)   "Civil action" includes but shall not be limited to actions
sounding tort and civil rights lawsuits.
      (3)   "Civil rights lawsuit" shall include but not be limited to actions
prosecuted pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and 42 U.S.C. § 1988.
      (4)   "Officer" shall include the Mayor, any Town Commissioner, the Town
Manager, the Town Clerk, the Town Attorney, or any charter officer.
   (b)   It is the policy of the town to provide an attorney to defend any
civil action arising from a complaint for damages or injury suffered as a
result of any act or omission of action of any of the town's officers,
employees, or agents for an act or omission arising out of and in the scope of
his or her employment or function, unless, in the case of a tort action, the
officer, employee, or agent acted in bad faith, with malicious purpose, or in a
manner exhibiting wanton and willful disregard of human rights, safety, or
property. Defense of such civil action includes, but is not limited to, any
civil rights lawsuit seeking relief personally against the officer, employee,
or agent for an act or omission under color of state law, custom, or usage,
wherein it is alleged that such officer, employee, or agent has deprived
another person of rights secured under the Federal Constitution or laws.
   (c)   Legal representation of an officer, employee, or agent of the town
shall be provided by the town at town expense. However, any attorney's fees
paid from public funds for any officer, employee, or agent who is found to be
personally liable by virtue of acting outside the scope of his or her
employment, or as acting in bad faith, with malicious purpose, or in a manner
exhibiting wanton and willful disregard of human rights, safety, or property,
may be recovered by the town in a civil action against such officer, employee,
or agent. If the town is asked to appoint legal counsel for said officer,
employee, or agent, the officer, employee, or agent shall not be entitled to
his or her choice of legal counsel. If the town fails to provide an attorney,
upon request of a past or present municipal officer, employee, or agent, to
defend a civil action arising from a complaint for damages or injury suffered
as a result of any act or omission of action of any of its officers, employees,
or agents, the town shall reimburse any such defendant who prevails in the
action for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2001-02, passed 11-28-01)
§§ 10-3. – 10-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 11: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
11-1   Establishment of certain town departments; supervision by Town Manager
   11-2 – 11-14   Reserved
Article II. Code Enforcement Special Magistrate
   
11-15   Authority to establish; purpose
   
11-16   Definitions
   
11-17   Establishment of code enforcement special magistrate
   
11-18   Powers
   
11-19   Enforcement procedures; notice
   
11-20   Conduct of hearing
   
11-21   Administrative fines; cost of repairs; liens
   
11-22   Appeals
   11-23 – 11-39   Reserved
Article III. Fire Department
   
11-40   Establishment
   
11-41   Powers and duties
   11-42 – 11-49   Reserved
Article IV. Police Department
   
11-50   Establishment
   
11-51   Chief of Police
   
11-52   Hours of duty; compensation; employment
   
11-53   General powers and duties
   
11-54   Retirement
   
11-55   Auxiliary police force
   11-56 – 11-64   Reserved
Article V. Civil Service Board
   
11-65   Civil service adopted
   
11-66   Declaration of legislative intent
   
11-67   Definitions
   
11-68   Civil Service Board; organization and procedure
   
11-69   Civil Service Board duties
   
11-70   Civil service rules and regulations
   
11-71   Positions subject to civil service; examinations, eligibility lists,
certification, and vacancies
   
11-72   Applicability
   11-73 – 11-79   Reserved
Article VI. Department of Public Works
   
11-80   Establishment; administration
   
11-81   Powers and duties
   11-82 – 11-89   Reserved
Article VII. Town Parks Board
   
11-90   Establishment; appointed members
   
11-91   Terms
   
11-92   Officers; rules and procedures
   
11-93   Power and authority
   
11-94   Parks and park facilities
   11-95 – 11-99   Reserved
Article VIII. Environmental Advisory Board
   
11-100   Establishment; appointed members
   
11-101   Terms
   
11-102   Officers; rules and procedures
   
11-103   Powers and duties
   11-104 – 11-109   Reserved
Article IX. Auditor Selection Committee
   
11-110   Authority
   
11-111   Creation and establishment
   
11-112   Duties and responsibilities
   
11-113   Public meeting and records
   
11-114   Membership
   
11-115   Funds
   11-116 – 11-119   Reserved
Article X. History Center Board
   
11-120   Establishment; appointed members
   
11-121   Terms
   
11-122   Officers; rules and procedures
   
11-123   Powers, duties and authority
   11-124 – 11-129   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11-1. ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN TOWN DEPARTMENTS; SUPERVISION BY TOWN MANAGER.
   (a)   In addition to the Police Department, which is created by the Charter,
there are hereby established the following town departments: Fire Department,
Finance Department, Public Works Department, Building Department, and the
Planning and Zoning Department.
   (b)   The foregoing departments shall continue to operate and be
administered in accordance with this Code and other town or departmental
policies, procedures and regulations, as presently established or as hereafter
modified. The Town Manager shall be the administrative and supervisory head of
the above town departments.
(Ord. 86-21, passed 12-9-86; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04)
§§ 11-2 – 11-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. CODE ENFORCEMENT SPECIAL MAGISTRATE.
§ 11-15. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH; PURPOSE.
   (a)   This article is adopted by the Town Commission to establish a code
enforcement special magistrate and hearing process pursuant to the authority
granted municipalities in Ch. 162, Florida Statutes.
   (b)   It is the intent of this article to promote, protect and improve the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town by authorizing the
creation of a code enforcement special magistrate with authority to impose
administrative fines and other noncriminal penalties to provide an equitable,
expeditious, effective and inexpensive method of enforcing the codes and
ordinances in force in the town where a pending or repeated violation of any
provision of this Code continues to exist.
   (c)   To the extent that any provision of the Town Code, or Appendix hereto,
references a Code Enforcement Board or to the extent that any Town of Melbourne
Beach administrative policy, rule, or procedure, references a Code Enforcement
Board, the term "Code Enforcement Board" shall be read and interpreted to be
synonymous with the term "special magistrate" as defined in this article, and
the special magistrate is hereby authorized to exercise any power vested in the
Town Code Enforcement Board.
(§ 162.02, Fla. Stat.)(Ord. 87-05, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-
21-20)
§ 11-16. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE INSPECTOR. Any agent or employee of the town whose duty it is to assure
code compliance. Said agent or employee shall be designated by the Town
Manager.
   LOCAL GOVERNING BODY. The Town Commission.
   LOCAL GOVERNING BODY ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney.
   PERSON. Any natural person, individual, public or private corporation, firm,
association, joint venture, partnership, municipality, government agency,
public subdivision, public officer, or any other entity whatsoever, or any
combination of such, jointly or severally.
   RECURRING VIOLATION. A violation previously cited with a notice of violation
and then cured before being presented to the special magistrate for a hearing
within five years prior to the current violation.
   REPEAT VIOLA TION. A violation of a provision of a code or ordinance by a
person the special magistrate has previously found to have violated or who has
admitted violating the same provision within five years prior to the current
violation, notwithstanding the violations occur at different locations.
   RESPONDENT OR VIOLATOR. A person responsible for the code violation, which
includes the perpetrator and/or the owner of the real property upon which the
violation occurred, who has been issued a notice of violation and/or has been
ordered to correct a violation consistent with this article.
   SPECIAL MAGISTRATE. A person authorized to hold hearings and assess fines
for the violation of Town codes and ordinances in accordance with Chapter 162,
Florida Statutes.
   TOWN. The Town of Melbourne Beach.
(§ 162.04, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 87-05, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed
10-21-20)
§ 11-17. ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT SPECIAL MAGISTRATE.
   (a)   There is hereby established a code enforcement special magistrate of
the Town under authority of Ch.162, Fla. Stat. The special magistrate shall act
as the hearing officer for violations of the codes and ordinances of the Town
as provided in this article when violations of the codes and ordinances are not
corrected following initial action by the Code Inspector.
   (b)   The Town Commission shall select and appoint the special magistrate to
such office. The special magistrate may be a licensed Florida attorney or
retired judge of the State of Florida.
   (c)   The special magistrate may be replaced when the Town Commission, at
its sole discretion, so desires.
(Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 11-18. POWERS.
   The code enforcement special magistrate shall have the power to:
   (a)   Adopt rules for the conduct of code enforcement violation hearings;
   (b)   Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to code enforcement violation
hearings. Subpoenas may be served by the County Sheriff or the town's Police
Department;
   (c)   Subpoena evidence to code enforcement violation hearings;
   (d)   Take testimony under oath; and
   (e)   Issue orders having the force of law to command whatever steps are
necessary to bring a violation into compliance.
(§ 162.08 Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 87-05, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted
10-21-20)
§ 11-19. ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; NOTICE.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the Code Inspector to initiate enforcement
proceedings of violations of the Town codes and ordinances. The special
magistrate shall not have the power to initiate such enforcement proceedings.
   (b)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) of this section, if a
violation of a particular code is
found, the Code Inspector shall notify the violator and give a reasonable time
to correct the violation. Should the violation continue beyond the time
specified for correction, the Code Inspector shall set a hearing before the
special magistrate and notify the respondent of the hearing pursuant to §
162.12, Fla. Stat., or as such section may be amended. If the violation is
corrected and then recurs or if the violation is not corrected by the time
specified for correction by the Code Inspector, the case may be presented to
the special magistrate even if the violation has been corrected prior to the
hearing and the notice shall so state.
   (c)   If a repeat violation is found, the Code Inspector shall notify the
violator but is not required to give the violator a reasonable time to correct
the violation. The Code Inspector, upon notifying the violator of a repeat
violation, shall set a hearing before the special magistrate and notify the
respondent of the hearing pursuant to § 162.12, Fla. Stat., or as such section
may be amended. The case may be presented to the special magistrate even if the
violation has been corrected prior to the Board hearing and the notice shall so
state.
   (d)   If the Code Inspector has reason to believe a violation presents a
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or if the violation is
irreparable or irreversible in nature, the Code Inspector shall make a
reasonable effort to notify the violator and may immediately set a hearing
before the special magistrate.
   (e)   If the owner of property that is subject to an enforcement proceeding
before the special magistrate, or court transfers ownership of such property
between the time the initial pleading was served and the time of the hearing,
such owner shall:
      (1)   Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the
proceeding to the prospective transferee.
      (2)   Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of the pleadings,
notices, and other materials relating to the code enforcement proceeding
received by the transferor.
      (3)   Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new
owner will be responsible for compliance with the applicable code and with
orders issued in the code enforcement proceeding.
      (4)   File a notice with the Code Inspector of the transfer of the
property, with the identity and address of the new owner and copies of the
disclosures made to the new owner, within five days after the date of the
transfer.
      (5)   If the property is transferred before the hearing, the proceeding
shall not be dismissed, but the new owner shall be provided a reasonable period
of time to correct the violation before the hearing is held. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Town from continuing to prosecute the pending code
enforcement proceeding to its conclusion against either the previous owner and/
or the new owner.
   (f)   All notices required to be made as part of the Town's code enforcement
process shall be made as provided in § 162.12, Fla. Stat., or as such section
may be amended.
(§§ 162.02, 162.07 Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 87-05, passed 4-14-87; Am. Ord. 2012-01,
adopted 3-21-12; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 11-20. CONDUCT OF HEARING.
   (a)   Administrative procedures. Upon request of the Code Inspector, or at
such other time as may be necessary, the special magistrate or Town Manager,
through clerical staff, may call a hearing. The special magistrate shall cause
minutes to be kept of all hearings and all hearings and records shall be open
to the public. The Town Commission shall provide clerical and administrative
personnel as may be reasonably required by the special magistrate for the
proper performance of designated duties. The special magistrate may, at any
hearing, set future hearing dates and may postpone or continue any matter
before the special magistrate to a future date.
   (b)   Representation. Each case before the special magistrate shall be
presented either by the Town Attorney, by the Code Inspector or by the Town
Manager or designee. If the Town prevails in prosecuting a case it shall be
entitled to recover all costs incurred in prosecuting the case before the
special magistrate and such costs may be included in the lien authorized by §
162.07(2), Fla. Stat. Any person accused of a violation may be represented by
counsel at the hearing.
   (c)   Order of procedure and rules of evidence. At any given hearing, the
special magistrate shall first take testimony and receive evidence from the
Town, and the Town shall have the burden of proving the existence of the
alleged violation by the preponderance of the evidence. At the conclusion of
the presentation of the evidence of the Town, the alleged violator may present
a case and submit evidence. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental procedural due process shall be observed and shall govern the said
proceedings. All testimony shall be under oath and recorded.
   (d)   Findings and orders. At the conclusion of the hearing, the special
magistrate shall make a finding of fact, based on the evidence of record, and
conclusions of law, and shall issue an order affording such relief as may be
consistent with the powers granted herein. The findings and order shall be
presented in written form and shall be served personally or by certified mail/
return receipt requested upon the violator. The order may include a notice that
the order must be complied with by a specific date and that a fine may be
imposed if the order is not complied with by said date as provided in § 162.09
(1), Fla. Stat. The order may specify the amount of the fine to be imposed and
the date on which the fine will commence if the violation is not corrected. If
the Town prevails in prosecuting a case before the special magistrate, the cost
of prosecution shall be included in the initial order and in any lien
authorized under §
11-21 if not paid prior to recording of the lien. The cost of repairs, along
with the fine, shall be included in any lien authorized under §
11-21 if the order is not complied with by said date. A certified copy of the
initial order may be recorded in the public records of the county and shall
constitute notice to all subsequent purchases, successors in interest, or as
assigned, if the violation concerns with real property and the findings therein
shall be binding upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real
property, any subsequent purchases, successors in interests, or assigns. If an
order is recorded in the public records pursuant to this subsection and the
order is complied with by the date specified in the order, the special
magistrate shall issue an order acknowledging compliance that shall be recorded
in the public records. A hearing is not required to issue such an order
acknowledging compliance provided by the general laws of Florida applicable to
code enforcement.
(Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 11-21. ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; COST OF REPAIRS; LIENS.
   (a)   The special magistrate, may either in the initial order or upon
notification by the Code Inspector that an order has not been complied with or
finding that a repeat violation has been committed, order the violator to pay a
fine in an amount specified in this section for each day the violation
continues past the date set by the special magistrate for compliance or, in the
case of a repeat violation, for each day the repeat violation continues,
beginning with the date the repeat violation is found to have occurred by the
Code Inspector. In addition, if the special magistrate finds that the violation
is a violation described in §
11-19(d), the special magistrate shall notify the Town of such findings. The
Town shall then have the right and power to make all reasonable repairs which
are required to bring the property into compliance and charge the violator with
the reasonable cost of the repairs along with the fine imposed pursuant to this
section. Making such repairs does not create a continuing obligation on the
part of the Town to make further repairs or to maintain the property and does
not create any liability against the Town for any damages to the property if
such repairs were completed in good faith. If a finding of a violation or
repeat violation has been made as provided by this part, a hearing shall not be
necessary for issuance of the order imposing the fine. If, after due notice and
hearing, the special magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable or
irreversible in nature, the special magistrate may order the violator to pay a
fine as specified in subsection (b) of this section.
   (b)   Fines.
      (1)   A fine imposed pursuant to this section shall not exceed $250 per
day per each individual violation cited for a first violation and shall not
exceed $500 per day per each violation cited for a repeat violation, and in
addition, may include all cost of repairs pursuant to this subsection and cost
of prosecution provided in §
11-20(d). However, if the special magistrate finds the violation to be
irreparable or irreversible in nature, it may impose a fine not to exceed
$5,000 per violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the fine, if any, the special
magistrate shall consider the following factors:
         (A)   The gravity of the violation;
         (B)   Any actions taken by the violator to correct the violation; and
         (C)   Any previous violations committed by the violator.
      (3)   The special magistrate shall be authorized to consider aggravating
and mitigating factors when determining the amount of fines and administrative
costs associated with code violations. Such factors include, but are in no way
limited to, the following:
         (A)   Mitigating factors.
            1.   The violation was caused by circumstances beyond the control
of the violator, such as a weather event;
            2.   The violation has a limited impact on the surrounding
community due to its nature or location;
            3.   The amount the fine has accrued to in comparison to the nature
of the violation and the value of the property in which the violation has
occurred;
            4.   The violator has violated the Code, at most, only once in the
last five years and said violation did not pose a threat to the community;
            5.   The violator does not have the ability to address the
violations due to health issues; inability to enter the property; lack of legal
authority; and/or financial reasons;
            6.   The length of time it took for the violator to bring the
property into compliance; or
            7.   The property has a homestead exemption.
         (B)   Aggravating factors.
            1.   The violator is a repeat offender of the same provision of the
Code;
            2.   The violator has created an unsafe condition that threatens
public health, safety, and/or welfare;
            3.   The violation has a high impact on the surrounding community;
            4.   The length of time it took for the violator to bring the
property into compliance; or
            5.   The subsequent purchaser had or should have had actual and/or
constructive knowledge of the fine(s) and/or lien(s).
         (C)   The special magistrate may reconsider and reduce a fine imposed
pursuant to this section. If a violator desires to request reconsideration of a
fine, the following procedures must be followed:
            1.   Any code violation for which an order has been rendered, must
be in compliance;
            2.   A written request must be made to the Code Inspector for an
inspection to verify compliance of the violation subject to the order;
            3.   After the Code Inspector has certified in writing that the
violation for which an order has been rendered is in compliance, the violator
must, within 20 days of such certification by
the Code Inspector, request in writing to the Code Inspector a reconsideration
of the fine imposed by the special magistrate; and
            4.   The special magistrate may refer to the factors outlined in
subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section in reconsidering whether a fine
previously imposed should be reduced. If any fine imposed pursuant to this
article has not been formally imposed and recorded as a lien, the special
magistrate's decision on a request for reconsideration shall be deemed final.
If any fine imposed pursuant to this article has been formally imposed and
recorded as a lien in the public records of Brevard County, the special
magistrate shall issue a recommendation to the Town Commission as to whether
the fine formally imposed as a lien should be reduced. The Town Commission is
not bound by the recommendation of the special magistrate and shall have the
sole authority to determine for itself whether a fine formally imposed as a
lien should be reduced.
         (D)   A certified copy of an order formally imposing an accruing fine,
or an accruing fine plus repair cost and costs of prosecution as a lien may be
recorded in the public records, and thereafter, said order shall constitute a
lien against the land on which the violation exists and upon any other real or
personal property owned by the violator. Regardless of the formal imposition
and recording of a lien, any fine imposed pursuant to §
11-20(d) shall continue to accrue until compliance of the violation has been
acknowledged. Upon petition to the circuit court, such order shall be
enforceable in the same manner as a court judgement by the sheriffs of this
state, including execution and levy against the personal property of the
violator, but such order shall not be deemed to be a court judgement except for
enforcement purposes. A fine imposed pursuant to this part shall continue to
accrue until the violator comes into compliance or until judgement is rendered
in a suit to foreclose on a lien filed pursuant to this section, whichever
occurs first. A lien arising from a fine imposed pursuant to this section runs
in favor of the Town, and the Town may execute a satisfaction or release of
lien entered pursuant to this section. After three months from the filing of
any such lien which remains unpaid, the special magistrate may authorize the
Town Attorney to foreclose on the lien. No lien created pursuant to the
provisions of this part may be foreclosed on real property which is a
homestead.
(Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 11-22. APPEALS.
   An aggrieved party, including the Town Commission, may appeal any final
administrative order of the special magistrate to the circuit court. Such an
appeal shall not be a hearing de novo but shall be limited to appellate review
of the record created before the special magistrate. An appeal shall be filed
within 30 days of the rendition of the order to be appealed.
(Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§§ 11-23. – 11-39. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 11-40. ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   Pursuant to Section
3.02 of the Town Charter, there is hereby established the Town Fire Department.
('75 Code, § 11-16) (Ord., passed 9-25-68)
§ 11-41. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The functions of the Fire Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   Inspections. Inspect all buildings, and structures, except single-
family and two-family dwellings and associated accessory structures, in the
town to prevent the occurrence of fire and to assure compliance with the fire
prevention regulations adopted by the town and establish an active and ongoing
fire prevention program as outlined in the Florida Fire Prevention Code,
National Fire Protection Association, and current state statutes.
      (2)   Firefighting. Extinguish fires and salvage property subsequent to
such extinguishment.
      (3)   Personnel. Recruit, train, and command volunteer members of the
firefighting force and other town employees whose duties relate to the Fire
Department.
      (4)   Maintenance of department property. Maintain departmental quarters,
supplies and equipment in an orderly, neat and proper state.
      (5)   Investigations and reports. Investigate fires, determine their
cause and make damage estimates and regular and special reports, including the
gathering of evidence for the prosecution of arson, where found.
      (6)   Assisting police. Assist the Police Department with its duties and
functions which relate to the Fire Department and as directed by the Town
Manager.
      (7)   Fire Chief to report to Town Manager. The Fire Chief shall report
to the Town Manager. The Fire Chief shall make reports as the Town Manager may
require including, but not limited to a monthly report of the status of the
Fire Department to include response to emergency calls for service.
      (8)   Control of fire area. The Fire Chief or Fire Department officer in
command at a fire, rescue operation, or other emergency shall have full control
of any area and personnel in the vicinity of the fire, rescue operation, or
emergency.
      (9)   Power to remove parked vehicle at the scene of fire, rescue
operation, or emergency. The Fire Chief or Fire Department officer in command
at a fire, rescue operation, or other emergency shall have the power to order
parked vehicle obstructing fire, rescue , or emergency operations to be moved.
When ordered by any member of the Fire Department, or other person under the
control and supervision of the Fire Chief, in the vicinity of a fire, rescue
operation, or emergency, no person shall fail or refuse to move a parked
vehicle owned or operated by him/her, or under his/her control as provided in
Section 316.2025, Florida Statutes.
      (l0)   Control of firemen at fire, rescue operation, or other emergency.
The Fire Chief or Fire Department officer in command at a fire shall have full
control and supervision of all members of the Fire Department volunteer or
otherwise, during the progress of any fire, rescue operation, or other
emergency.
      (11)   Other duties. Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the
Town Manager.
('75 Code, § 11-17) (Ord. passed 9-25-68; Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§§ 11-42. – 11-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 11-50. ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to Section
3.02 and consistent with Section
3.06, all of the Town Charter, there is hereby established the Town Police
Department.
('75 code, § 18-11) (Ord., passed 8-17-62)
§ 11-51. CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (a)   There is hereby established the office of Chief of Police.
('75 Code, § 18-23)
   (b)   The duties of the Chief of Police shall be to keep peace within the
town, enforce the laws of this state and the ordinances of the town, protect
life and property, prevent crime, detect and arrest offenders and aid persons
when requested to do so, if proper and legal.
('75 Code, § 18-25)
   (c)   The Chief of Police shall answer directly to and be under the direct
operational supervision of the Town Manager.
('75 Code, § 18-26)
   (d)   Members of the Police Department shall answer directly to the Chief of
Police who shall see that proper conduct and efficiency are maintained at all
times. The Chief of Police shall report any necessary findings and
recommendations to the Town Manager.
('75 Code, § 18-14)
(Ord., passed 8-17-62)
§ 11-52. HOURS OF DUTY; COMPENSATION; EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   The hours of duty of members of the Police Department shall be set by
the Chief of Police as conditions may require.
   (b)   The compensation of the members of the Police Department shall be set
by contract or resolution of the Town Commission.
('75 Code, §§ 18-15 – 18-16) (Ord., passed 8-17-62)
   (c)   No person shall be a law enforcement officer and a member of the
Police Department unless said individual shall be first determined by the Chief
of Police and the Town Manager to have the required moral character, education,
training and certification, all as required by the Criminal Justice Standards
and Training Commission and as set forth in Chapter 943, Florida Statutes and
Chapter 11B, Florida Administrative Code.
§ 11-53. GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The general duties of the Police Department shall be to keep the peace,
enforce the laws of this state and the ordinances of the town, protect life and
property, prevent crime, detect and arrest offenders and aid persons when
requested to do so, if proper and legal. The members of the police force shall
perform such other acts and duties as shall from time to time be prescribed by
the Chief of Police.
('75 Code, § 18-12) (Ord., passed 8-17-62)
§ 11-54. RETIREMENT.
   (a)   There is hereby created and established a trust fund for the benefit
of the police officers of the Town of Melbourne Beach to be known as the
Melbourne Beach Police Officers’ Retirement System. Effective as of August 25,
1981 and except as modified herein, the Melbourne Beach Police Officers'
Retirement System shall be as set forth under Chapter 185, Florida Statutes;
provided, however, that Section 185.16, Florida Statutes, shall be superseded
in its entirety by §
11-54(d) and (e). All other provisions of Chapter 185, Florida Statutes, not
amended by this section shall be applicable.
   (b)   As used herein, unless otherwise defined or required by the context,
the following words and phrases shall have the meaning indicated:
      ACCUMULATED CONTRIBUTIONS. A member’s own contributions to the System.
      ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENT. A benefit or amount of equal value, based upon the
RP 2000 Mortality Table (unisex for equivalence) and an interest rate of 8% per
year.
      AVERAGE FINAL COMPENSATION. One- twelfth of the average annual
compensation of the five best years of the last ten years of credited service
prior to retirement, termination or death.
      BENEFICIARY. The person or persons entitled to receive benefits hereunder
at the death of a member who has or have been designated in writing by the
member and filed with the Board. If no such designation is in effect or if no
person so designated is living at the time of death of the member, the
BENEFICIARY shall be the estate of the member.
      BOARD. The Board of Trustees, which shall administer and manage the
System herein provided and serve as trustees of the Fund.
      CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
      COMPENSATION or SALARY. The total cash remuneration including “overtime”
paid by the town to a police officer for services rendered, but not  including
any payments for extra duty or a special detail work performed on behalf of a
second party employer. Effective for overtime earned after July 1, 2011,
overtime hours included in this definition will be limited to no more than 300
hours per year of service; there is no limitation on the number of hours of
overtime included in this definition prior to July 1, 2011. Additionally,
unused accumulated sick and annual leave earned after July 1, 2011 may not be
included in this definition but hours earned before July 1, 2011, which remain
unused at retirement and are paid for by the town in accordance with the town's
policies for payment for unused sick or annual leave will be included
regardless of when the payment is made. These changes only apply to members who
are not eligible for normal retirement on July 1, 2011.
         (A)   The member’s COMPENSATION or SALARY contributed as employee-
elective salary reductions or deferrals to any salary reduction, deferred
compensation, or tax-sheltered annuity program authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code shall be deemed to be the COMPENSATION or SALARY the member would
receive if he or she were not participating in such program and shall be
treated as compensation for retirement purposes under this System.
         (B)   For any person who first becomes a member in any plan year
beginning on or after January 1, 1996, COMPENSATION for any plan year shall not
include any amounts in excess of the Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17)
limitation (as amended by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993), which
limitation of $200,000 shall be adjusted as required by federal law for
qualified government plans and shall be further adjusted for changes in the
cost of living in the manner provided by Internal Revenue Code Section401(a)
(17)(B). For any person who first became a member prior to the first plan year
beginning on or after January 1, 1996, the limitation on compensation shall be
not less than the maximum compensation amount that was allowed to be taken into
account under the plan as in effect on July 1, 1993, which limitation shall be
adjusted for changes in the cost of living since 1989 in the manner provided by
Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17).
         (C)   Effective for payments after December 31, 2008, as provided for
by Internal Revenue Code Section 414(u)(7), this definition of COMPENSATION
shall include any differential wage payment from the employer to a member as a
result of the member’s absence from employment while serving in qualified
military service.
      CREDITED SERVICE. The aggregate number of years of service and fractional
parts of years of service of any police officer, omitting intervening years and
fractional parts of years when such police officer may not have been employed
by the town subject to the following conditions:
         (A)   No member shall receive credit for years or fractional parts of
years of service if he or she has withdrawn his or her contributions to the
System for those years or fractional parts of years of service, unless the
member repays into the System the amount he or she has withdrawn, plus interest
as determined by the Board. The member shall have at least 90 days after his or
her re-employment to make repayment.
         (B)   A member may voluntarily leave his or her contributions in the
Fund for a period of five years after leaving the employ of the Department,
pending the possibility of his or her being rehired, without losing credit for
the time he or she has participated actively as a police officer. If he or she
is not re-employed as a police officer with the Department within five years,
his or her contributions shall be returned to him or her without interest.
         (C)   Credited service under this section shall be provided only for
service as a police officer as defined below.
         (D)   In determining the creditable service of any member, credit for
up to five years of the time spent in the military service of the Armed Forces
of the United States shall be added to the years of actual service, if:
            1.   The police officer is a member in the active employ of the
municipality prior to such service and leaves a position, other than a
temporary position, for the purpose of voluntary or involuntary service in the
Armed Forces of the United States.
            2.   The police officer is entitled to re-employment under the
provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
            3.   The police officer returns to his or her employment as a
police officer of the municipality within one year from the date of his or her
release from such active service except that members who die or become disabled
while serving on active duty military service shall be entitled to the rights
of this section even though such member was not re-employed by the town.
Members who die or become disabled while on active duty military service shall
be treated as though re-employed the day before the member became disabled or
died, was credited with the service they would have been entitled to under this
section, and then either died a non-duty death while employed or became
disabled from a non-duty disability.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town of Melbourne Beach Police Department.
      EFFECTIVE DATE. August 25,1981, with a complete restatement of the plan
effective upon adoption of this section.
      FUND. The trust fund established herein as part of the System.
      MEMBER. An actively employed police officer who fulfills the prescribed
membership requirements. Any benefit improvements which might be made in the
future shall apply prospectively and shall not apply to members who terminate
employment or who retire prior to the effective date of any ordinance adopting
such benefit improvements, unless such ordinance specifically provides to the
contrary.
      POLICE OFFICER. Any person who is elected, appointed, or employed full-
time by the town, who is certified or required to be certified as a law
enforcement officer in compliance with Section 943.1395, Florida Statutes, who
is vested with authority to bear arms and make arrests, and whose primary
responsibility is the prevention and detection of crime or the enforcement of
the penal, criminal, traffic, or highway laws of the state. This definition
includes all certified supervisory and command personnel whose duties include,
in whole or in part, the supervision, training, guidance, and management
responsibilities of full-time law enforcement officers, part-time law
enforcement officers, or auxiliary law enforcement officers, but does not
include part-time law enforcement officers  or auxiliary law enforcement
officers as the same are defined in Section 943.10(6) and (8), Florida
Statutes, respectively. However, Police Chief may opt not to participate in the
System.
      RETIREE. A member who has entered retirement status.
      RETIREMENT. A member’s separation from town employment as a police
officer with immediate eligibility for receipt of benefits under the plan.
      SYSTEM. The Town of Melbourne Beach Police Officers’ Retirement System as
contained herein and all amendments thereto.
      TOWN. The Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida.
   (c)   Powers of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees selected in
accordance with the provisions of Section 185.05(1)(a), Florida Statutes, shall
have four year terms effective for terms beginning after the effective date of
this amendment [by Ord. 2012-02].
      (1)   Subject to the limitations of this article and Chapter 185, Florida
Statutes, the Board of Trustees shall, from time to time, establish uniform
rules and regulations for the administration of Funds created by this article
and for the transaction of its business. The Board of Trustees shall engage
such actuarial, accounting and other similar services as shall be required to
transact the business of the Retirement System. The compensation of all persons
engaged by the Board of Trustees and all other expenses of the Board necessary
for the operation of the Retirement System shall be paid from the Fund at such
rates and in such amounts as the Board of Trustees shall determine. Funds may
be disbursed by the town Finance Department or other disbursing agent as
determined by the Board, but only upon written authorization by the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   The duties and responsibilities of the Board of Trustees shall
include, but not necessarily be limited by the following:
         (A)   To construe the provisions of the system and determine all
questions arising thereunder;
         (B)   To determine all questions relating to eligibility and
participation;
         (C)   To determine and certify the amount of all retirement allowances
or other benefits hereunder;
         (D)   To establish uniform rules and procedures to be followed for
administrative purposes, benefit applications and all matters required to
administer the system;
         (E)   To distribute to members, at regular intervals, information
concerning the system;
         (F)   To receive and process all applications for participation and
benefits;
         (G)   To authorize all payments whatsoever from the Fund, and to
notify the disbursing agent, in writing, of approved benefit payments and other
expenditures arising through operation of the system and Fund;
         (H)   To have performed actuarial studies and actuarial valuations and
make recommendations regarding any and all changes in the provisions of the
system; and
         (I)   To perform such other duties as are specified in Chapter 185,
Florida Statutes.
      (3)   As part of the system, there is hereby established the Fund, into
which shall be deposited all of the contributions and present assets whatsoever
attributable to the system and held by the System’s custodian. The actual
custody and supervision of the Fund, and assets thereof, shall be vested in the
Board of Trustees.
      (4)   The Board, in its sole discretion as to the selection, shall be
required to appoint a national or state bank with trust powers for the purpose
of serving as custodian of the Board and assets of the Fund shall be promptly
and continually deposited therewith. In order to fulfill its investment
responsibilities as set forth herein, the Board, also in its sole discretion as
to the selection, may retain the services of the Custodian Bank, an investment
advisor registered under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, an insurance
company or a combination of these, for purposes of investment decisions and
management. Such investment manager(s) shall have full discretion, subject to
any Board guidelines as prescribed by the Board, in the investment of all Fund
assets.
      (5)   All Funds and securities of the system may be commingled in the
Fund, provided that accurate records are maintained at all times, reflecting
the financial composition of the Fund, including accurate current accounts and
entries as regards the following:
         (A)   Current amounts of contributions of Members on both an
individual and aggregate account basis;
         (B)   Receipts and disbursements;
         (C)   Benefit payments;
         (D)   Current amounts clearly reflecting all monies, funds and assets
whatsoever attributable to contributions and deposits from the State of Florida
or the town; and
         (E)   All interest, dividends and gains (or losses) whatsoever; and
         (F)   Such other entries as may be properly required so as to reflect
a clear and complete financial report of the Fund.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall have the following investment powers
and authority:
         (A)   The Board of Trustees shall be vested with full legal title to
said Fund, subject to the authority and power of the Town Commission to amend
or terminate this Trust, provided that no amendment or Fund termination shall
ever result in the use of any assets of this Fund, except for the payment of
regular expenses and benefits under this system. All contributions from time to
time paid into the Fund and the income thereof, without distinction between
principal and income, shall be held and administered by the Board or its agent
in the Fund and the Board shall not be required to segregate or invest
separately any portion of the Fund.
         (B)   The Fund may be invested and reinvested in such securities or
property, real or personal, wherever situated and of whatever kind, as shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees, including but not limited to stocks, common
or preferred bonds, common trust Funds and other evidence of indebtedness or
ownership. In any event, however, the provisions of Section 185.06(1)(b)4,
Florida Statutes, shall not be superseded, nor shall the trust fund be operated
inconsistent therewith, except as set forth in this sub- paragraph. The Board
of Trustees may invest up to the aggregate of 70% (at market) of the Retirement
System's investments in stocks. Further, foreign investments shall be allowed
up to the limits contained in Section 185.06, Florida Statutes.
         (C)   The Board of Trustees may retain in cash and keep unproductive
of income such amount of the Fund as it may deem advisable, having regard for
the cash requirements of the system.
         (D)   No person or entity shall be liable for the making, retention,
or sale of any investment or reinvestment made as herein provided, nor for any
loss or diminishment of the Fund, except that due to his or its own negligence,
willful misconduct or lack of good faith.
         (E)   The Board may cause any investment in securities held by it to
be registered in or transferred into its name as Trustee or into the name of
such nominee as it may direct, or it may retain them unregistered and inform
permitting transferability. The books and records shall at all times show that
all investments are part of the Trust Fund.
         (F)   The Board is empowered, but is not required, to vote upon any
stocks, bonds or securities of any corporation, association or trust and to
give general or specific proxies or powers of attorney with or without power of
substitution; to participate in mergers, reorganizations, recapitalizations,
consolidations and similar transactions with respect to such securities; to
deposit such stock or other securities in any voting trust or any protective or
like committee with the Trustees or with depositories designated thereby; to
amortize or fail to amortize any part or all of the premium or discount
resulting from the acquisition or disposition of assets and generally, to
exercise any of the powers of an owner with respect to stocks, bonds or other
investments comprising the Fund which it may deem to be the best interest of
the Fund to exercise.
         (G)   The Board shall not be required to make any inventory or
appraisal or report to any court, nor to secure any order of court for the
exercise of any power herein contained.
         (H)   Notwithstanding anything else in this subsection and as provided
in Section 215.473, Florida Statutes, the Board of Trustees must identify and
publicly report any direct or indirect holdings it may have in any scrutinized
company, as defined in that section. Beginning January 1, 2010, the Board must
proceed to sell, redeem, divest, or withdraw all publicly traded securities it
may have directly in that company. The divestiture of any such security must be
completed by September 10, 2010. The Board and its named officers or investment
advisors may not be deemed to have breached their fiduciary duty in any action
taken to dispose of any such security, and the Board shall have satisfactorily
discharged the fiduciary duties of loyalty, prudence, and sole and exclusive
benefit to the participants of the pension fund and their beneficiaries if the
actions it takes are consistent with the duties imposed by Section 215.473,
Florida Statutes, as provided for in Section 185.06(7), Florida Statutes, and
the manner of the disposition, if any, is reasonable as to the means chosen.
For purposes of determining which companies are scrutinized companies, the
Board may utilize the list of scrutinized companies as developed bv the Florida
State Board of Administration. No person may bring any civil, criminal, or
administrative action against the Board of Trustees or any employee, officer,
director, or advisor of such pension fund based upon the divestiture of any
security pursuant to this subsection.
      (7)   Where any action which the Board is required to take or any duty or
function which it is required to perform either under the terms herein or under
the general law applicable to it as Trustee under this ordinance, can
reasonably be taken or performed only after receipt by it from a member, the
town or any other entity, of specific information, certification, direction or
instructions, the Board shall be free of liability in failing to take such
action or perform such duty or function until such information, certification,
direction or instruction has been received by it.
      (8)   Any overpayments or underpayments from the Fund to a member or
beneficiary caused by errors of computation shall be adjusted with interest at
a rate per annum approved by the Board. Overpayments shall be charged against
payments next succeeding the correction. Underpayments shall be made up from
the Trust Fund.
      (9)   The Board shall sustain no liability whatsoever for the sufficiency
of the Fund to meet the payments and benefits herein provided.
      (10)   The Board has the power to sue and/or be sued. In any application
to or proceeding or action in the courts, only the town and the Board shall be
necessary parties, and no member or other person having an interest in the fund
shall be entitled to any notice or service of process. Any judgment entered in
such a proceeding or action shall be conclusive upon all persons.
      (11)   Any of the foregoing powers and functions reposed in the Board may
be performed or carried out by the Board through duly authorized agents,
provided that the Board at all times maintains continuous supervision over the
acts of any such agent; provided further, that legal title to said fund shall
always remain in the Board of Trustees.
   (d)   Member contributions.
      (1)   Amount. Effective on October 1, 1994, 5% of the respective salaries
of each member shall be deposited to the trust on a pre-tax basis in accordance
with the provisions of Section 414(h)(2) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
Such contributions shall be collected and deposited to the trust immediately
after each pay period.
      (2)   Guaranteed Refund. All benefits payable under this system are in
lieu of a refund of Accumulated Contributions, without interest. In any event,
however, each member shall be guaranteed the payment of benefits on his behalf
at least equal in total amount of his accumulated contributions, without
interest.
      (3)   Membership.
         (A)   Each police officer who is a member of the System as of November
14, 2007 shall continue as a member without interruption.
         (B)   Each police officer hired after November 14, 2007 (effective
date of Ordinance No. 2007-09) shall become a member of this System as a
condition of employment on his or her date of full-time employment.
      (4)   Each police officer/member shall complete a form prescribed by the
Board providing the following information:
         (A)   Designation of a beneficiary or beneficiaries;
         (B)   Authorization of payroll deduction;
         (C)   A sworn statement as to prior medical history; and
         (D)   Any other information deemed necessary or appropriate by the
Board.
      (5)   Change in designation of beneficiary. A member may from time to
time change his or her designated beneficiary by written notice to the Board
upon forms provided by the Board. Upon such change, the rights of all
previously designated beneficiaries to receive any benefits under the System
shall cease. A retiree may change his or her joint pensioner or beneficiary up
to two times in accordance with the provisions of §
11-54(g)(2).
   (e)   Benefits.
      (1)   Retirement date.
         (A)   Normal retirement. A member’s normal retirement date shall be
the first day of the month coincident with or next following the earlier of: 1)
attainment of age fifty-five (55) and the completion of ten (10) years of
creditable service; or 2) attainment of age fifty-two (52) and the completion
of twenty (20) years of creditable service. Members who continue in employment
beyond their normal retirement date continue to earn benefit credit under the
system. Each member shall become 100% vested in his or her accrued benefit on
his or her normal retirement date.
         (B)   Early retirement. A member's early retirement date shall be the
first day of the month coincident with or next following the attainment of age
fifty (50) and the completion of ten (10) years of creditable service, or any
later date prior to the normal retirement date.
      (2)   Retirement benefits.
         (A)   Normal retirement. A member retiring hereunder on or after the
member's normal retirement date shall receive a monthly benefit which shall
commence on the member's retirement date and be continued thereafter during
said individual's lifetime with the first 120 payments guaranteed as payable in
any event. The monthly retirement benefit shall be equal to 3% of average final
compensation multiplied by the years of credited service.
            1.   Provided, further, members retiring on or after October 1,
1998 who complete 20 or more years of credited service, or members retiring on
or after October 1, 2002 who have reached their normal retirement date as
defined in §
11-54(e)(1)(A) of this code, shall receive an additional monthly benefit equal
to $10 times (x) the number of full years of credited service. This additional
monthly amount shall commence on the member's retirement date and be continued
thereafter during said individual's lifetime with the first 120 payments
guaranteed as payable in any event.
            2.   Members (including terminated vested members and their
beneficiaries, but excluding disability retirees) who begin receiving monthly
benefit payments on or after October 1, 2001, shall receive a 3% annual
increase in benefits beginning on October 1 following the later of: 1) the date
of termination of employment; or 2) the date that the member would have met the
requirements for normal retirement (based on actual service at the date of
termination of employment). The final 3% increase shall occur on October 1
preceding the attainment of age 62, or, in the case of beneficiaries of
deceased members, the October 1 preceding the date the deceased member would
have attained age 62.
         (B)   Early retirement. A member retiring hereunder on said member's
early retirement date may receive either a deferred or an immediate benefit
payable for life, with the first 120 payments guaranteed payable in any event,
as follows:
            1.   A deferred monthly retirement benefit which shall commence on
what would have been said member's normal retirement date. The amount of each
such deferred monthly retirement benefit shall be determined in the same manner
and paid in the same form as retirement at the member's normal retirement date,
except that credited service and average monthly earnings shall be determined
as of the member's early retirement date; or
            2.   An immediate monthly retirement benefit which shall commence
on the member's early retirement date. The benefit payable shall be computed
and paid in the same manner as normal retirement but shall be reduced three
percent (3%) for each year by which the early retirement date precedes the
otherwise normal retirement date.
      (3)   Death prior to retirement; refunds of contributions or payment of
death benefits.
         (A)   If a member dies before attaining ten years of service, the
beneficiary(ies) named by the member shall be entitled to a refund of 100%,
without interest, of the contributions made to the System by such deceased
member. If there is no named beneficiary, then the refund of contributions
shall be paid to the estate of the member.
         (B)   If a member with at least ten years of credited service dies
prior to retirement, his or her beneficiary is entitled to the benefits
otherwise payable to the member at early or normal retirement age.
      (4)   Defined contribution component. Pursuant to the requirements of
Florida Statutes Section 185.35(6) effective October 1, 2015, a defined
contribution plan component is established in addition to the defined benefit
component of this local law plan. Where the Chapter 185 money exceeds
$54,044.91, this defined contribution component will be funded with one half of
each dollar received over the $54,044.91. Once the plan is funded, the Board of
Trustees has the authority to adopt rules regarding the operation of the
defined contribution component of the local law plan.
      (5)   Separation from Department; refunds.
         (A)   If any member leaves the service of the Department before
accumulating aggregate time of ten years toward retirement and before being
eligible to retire under the provisions of this chapter, such member shall be
entitled to a refund of all of his or her contributions made to the System
without interest, less any benefits paid to him or her.
         (B)   If any member who has been in the service of the Department for
at least ten years elects to leave his or her accrued contributions in the
System, such member may retire at the amount of such retirement income
otherwise payable to him or her, at his or her early or normal retirement date.
   (f)   Disability benefits.
      (1)   Service incurred. Any member who receives a service-connected
injury, disease or disability, which injury, disease or disability causes said
member to be totally and permanently disabled by reason of any cause other than
as set forth in subsection (f)(4) on or after the effective date of the plan,
shall receive in equal monthly installments an amount equal to 50% of his rate
of regular base salary in effect as of the date of disability. The benefit
shall be paid as of the date the Board determines entitlement to such
disability retirement and will continue to be paid until the earlier of
recovery, as determined by the Board, or death. In the event of death within
ten years of the date of disability and during the existence of the disability,
benefits shall be continued to the member's beneficiary for the balance of the
ten year period.
         (A)   Any condition or impairment of health of any and all police
officers employed in the Department and who are members of the plan caused by
tuberculosis, hypertension, heart disease, or hardening of the arteries,
resulting in total or partial disability or death, shall be presumed to be
accidental and suffered in line of duty unless the contrary be shown by
competent evidence. Any condition or impairment of health caused directly or
proximately by exposure, which exposure occurred in the active performance of
duty at some definite time or place without willful negligence of the part of
the member, resulting in total or partial disability shall be presumed to be
accidental and suffered in the line of duty, provided that such member shall
have successfully passed a physical examination upon entering such service,
which physical examination, including electrodardiogram, failed to reveal any
evidence of such condition, and, further, that such presumption shall not apply
to benefits payable under or granted in a policy of life insurance or
disability insurance. In order to be entitled to the presumption in the case of
hepatitis, meningococcal meningitis, or tuberculosis, the member must meet the
requirements of Section 112.181, Florida Statutes.
         (B)   The final decision as to whether a member meets the requirements
for duty disability pension rests with the Board and shall be based on
substantial competent evidence on the record as a whole.
      (2)   Nonservice-incurred. Any member who receives a nonservice-connected
injury, disease or disability and which injury, disease or disability causes
said member to be totally and permanently disabled by reason of any cause other
than as set forth in subsection (f)(4) on or after the effective date of the
plan, shall receive a refund of his own member contributions. This subsection
(f)(2) shall not apply to any member with ten or more years of service. The
benefit payable to a member who retires from the service of the town, after ten
years of service, with a total and permanent disability as a result of a non-
line of duty injury or illness is the accrued normal retirement benefit payable
for ten years certain and life, but shall not be less than 25% of his or her
average monthly compensation as of the member’s disability retirement date. The
benefit shall be payable as of the date that the Board determines entitlement
to such disability retirement. The final decision as to whether a member meets
the requirements for duty disability pension rests with the Board and shall be
based on substantial competent evidence on the record as a whole.
      (3)   Determination of disability. All questions relating to eligibility
for initial payment or continuance of disability benefits shall be determined
by the Board of Trustees, taking into consideration the recommendations of a
qualified physician or surgeon appointed by the Board of Trustees and based
upon the methods and procedures established by the Board of Trustees. In the
event that any disabled member could otherwise still be employed or reemployed
as a police officer within the department, except that the position for which
he is qualified is not available due to being currently filled, the benefit
shall be payable only until such position again becomes available. The Board
shall require, at its expense, periodic medical reexamination of disabled
members. The final decision as to whether a member meets the requirements for
disability pension rests with the Board and shall be based on substantial
competent evidence on the record as a whole.
      (4)   Exclusions. Monthly disability benefits shall not be payable in
cases where the disability is a result of:
         (A)   Excessive and habitual use by the police officer of drugs,
intoxicants, or narcotics;
         (B)   Injury or disease sustained by the police officer while
willfully and illegally participating in fights, riots, civil insurrections or
while committing a crime;
         (C)   Injury or disease sustained while serving in the Armed Forces.
This exclusion does not affect members who have become disabled as a result of
intervening military service under the federal Heroes Earnings Assistance and
Relief Tax Act of 2008 (H.R. 6081; P.L. 110-245);
         (D)   Injury or disease sustained while working for anyone other than
the Town and arising out of such employment; or
         (E)   Injury or disease sustained by the police officer after
employment has terminated.
      (5)   Recovery. In the event of recovery from disability as determined by
the Board and immediate re-employment by the town as a police officer, the
period of time while disabled shall be included as credited service. In the
event of the recovery, but without immediate re-employment as an employee, the
member's future benefits shall be determined as though initially terminated
employment on his date of disability.
      (6)   Medical Board. No police officer shall be permitted to retire under
the provisions of this subsection (f) until examined, by a duly qualified
physician, psychologist/psychiatrist, or surgeon to be selected by the Board of
Trustees for that purpose, and found to be disabled in the degree and manner
specified in this subsection (f). Any police officer retiring under this
subsection (f) shall be examined periodically by a duly qualified physician,
psychologist/psychiatrist, or surgeon to be selected by the Board of Trustees
for that purpose, to determine if such disability has ceased to exist.
         (A)   Permanent and total disability. A police officer will be
considered totally disabled if, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, said
police officer is wholly prevented from rendering useful and efficient service
as a police officer; and a police officer will be considered permanently
disabled if, in the opinion of Board of Trustees, said police officer is likely
to remain so disabled continuously and permanently from a cause other than as
specified in subsection (f)(4).
         (B)   Nonservice-incurred. A non- service-incurred injury, disability,
or disease shall be one incurred other than in the line of duty.
   (g)   Optional forms of benefits.
      (1)   In lieu of the amount and form of retirement income payable in the
event of normal, early or disability retirement, a member, upon written request
to the Board of Trustees and subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees,
may elect to receive a retirement income or benefit of equivalent actuarial
value payable in accordance with one of the following options:
         (A)   Life only. A retirement income of larger monthly amount, payable
to the police officer for his or her lifetime only.
         (B)   Survivor annuity. A retirement income of a modified monthly
amount, payable to the police officer during the joint lifetime of the police
officer and a joint pensioner designated by the police officer, and following
the death of either of them, 100%, 75%, 66 2/3%, or 50% of such monthly amount
payable to the survivor for the lifetime of the survivor.
         (C)   Other. Such other amount and form of retirement payments or
benefit as, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, will best meet the
circumstances of the retiring member.
      (2)   The member upon electing any option of this section will designate
the joint pensioner or beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive the benefit,
if any, payable under the plan in the event of the member’s death, and will
have the power to change such designation from time to time. Such designation
will name a joint pensioner or one or more primary beneficiaries where
applicable. If a member has elected an option with a joint pensioner or
beneficiary and his or her retirement income benefits have commenced, he or she
may thereafter change the designated joint pensioner or beneficiary up to twice
in accordance with Section 185.341, Florida Statutes, without the approval of
the Board of Trustees or the current annuitant or beneficiary. The retired
member is not required to provide proof of the good health of the joint
annuitant or beneficiary being removed, and the joint annuitant or beneficiary
being removed need not be living. Any retired member who desires to change his
or her joint annuitant or beneficiary shall file with the Board of Trustees a
notarized notice of such change. Upon receipt of a completed change of joint
annuitant form or such other notice, the Board of Trustees shall adjust the
retired member's monthly benefit by the application of actuarial tables and
calculations developed to ensure that the benefit paid is the actuarial
equivalent of the present value of the member's current benefit and there is no
impact to the Plan. The beneficiary or joint annuitant being removed will be
assumed deceased by the actuary in determining the actuarially equivalent
amount of the revised monthly payment. No retired member's current benefit
shall be increased as a result of the change of beneficiary. The retired member
shall also be responsible for the cost of the recalculation of the benefit by
the actuary. Any subsequent change may be made only if the Board of Trustees
consents to such change and if the joint pensioner last previously designated
by the police officer is alive when he or she files with the Board of Trustees
a request for such change. The consent of a member’s joint pensioner or
beneficiary to any such change shall not be required. The Board of Trustees may
request such evidence of the good health of the joint pensioner that is being
removed as it may require and the amount of the retirement income payable to
the police officer upon the designation of a new joint pensioner shall be
actuarially redetermined taking into account the ages and sex of the former
joint pensioner, the new joint pensioner, and the member. Each such designation
will be made in writing on a form prepared by the Board of Trustees, and on
completion will be filed with the Board of Trustees. In the event that no
designated beneficiary survives the member, such benefits as are payable in the
event of the death of the member subsequent to his or her retirement shall be
paid as provided in §
11-54(h).
      (3)   Retirement income payments shall be made under the option elected
in accordance with the provisions of this section and shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         (A)   If a member dies prior to his or her normal retirement date or
early retirement date, whichever first occurs, no benefit will be payable under
the option to any person, but the benefits, if any, will be determined under §
11-54(e)(3).
         (B)   If the designated beneficiary (or beneficiaries) or joint
pensioner dies before the member’s retirement under the plan, the option
elected will be canceled automatically and a retirement income of the normal
form and amount will be payable to the member upon his or her retirement as if
the election had not been made, unless a new election is made in accordance
with the provisions of this section or a new beneficiary is designated by the
member prior to his or her retirement.
         (C)   If both the retired member and the designated beneficiary (or
beneficiaries) die before the full payment has been effected under any option
providing for payments for a period certain and life thereafter, made pursuant
to the provisions of this section, the Board of Trustees may, in its
discretion, direct that the commuted value of the remaining payments be paid in
a lump sum and in accordance with §
11-54(h).
         (D)   If a member continues beyond his or her normal retirement date
pursuant to the provisions of §
11-54(e)(1)(A) and dies prior to actual retirement and while an option made
pursuant to the provisions of this section is in effect, monthly retirement
income payments will be made, or a retirement benefit will be paid, under the
option to a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) designated by the member in the
amount or amounts computed as if the member had retired under the option on the
date on which death occurred.
         (E)   No member may make any change in his or her retirement option
after the date of cashing or depositing his or her first retirement check.
   (h)   Beneficiaries.
      (1)   Each member may, on a form provided for that purpose, signed and
filed with the Board of Trustees, designate a choice of one or more persons,
named sequentially or jointly, as his or her beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to
receive the benefit, if any, which may be payable in the event of the member’s
death, and each designation may be revoked by such police officer by signing
and filing with the Board of Trustees a new designation or beneficiary form.
      (2)   If no beneficiary is named in the manner provided by division (h)
(1), or if no beneficiary designated by the member survives him or her, the
death benefit, if any, which may be payable under the plan with respect to such
deceased member shall be paid by the Board of Trustees to the estate of such
deceased member, provided that in any of such cases the Board of Trustees, in
its discretion, may direct that the commuted value of the remaining monthly
income payments be paid in a lump sum. Any payment made to any person pursuant
to this subsection shall operate as a complete discharge of all obligations
under the plan with regard to such deceased police officer and shall not be
subject to review by anyone, but shall be final, binding and conclusive on all
persons ever interested hereunder.
   (i)   Internal Revenue Code section 415 limits.
      (1)   Basic limitations. Subject to the adjustments in paragraph 3, the
maximum amount of the actual annual retirement income paid in any year with
respect to a participant under this Plan attributable to employer provided
benefits shall not exceed the dollar amount allowable for any calendar year
pursuant to section 415(b) of the Code, as adjusted in such calendar year for
increases in the cost of living in accordance with regulations issued by the
Secretary of the Treasury under section 415(d) of the Code. For purposes of
applying the basic limitation, benefits payable in any form other than a
straight life annuity with no ancillary benefits shall be adjusted, as provided
by Treasury Regulations, so that such benefits are the actual equivalent of a
straight life annuity. For purposes of this subsection, the following benefits
shall not be taken into account:
         (A)   Any ancillary benefit which is not directly related to
retirement income benefits;
         (B)   Any other benefit not required under section 415(b)(2) of the
Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder to be taken into account for purposes
of the limitation of section 415(b)(1) of the Code.
      (2)   Participation in other defined benefit plans. The limitation of
this subsection with respect to any participant who at any time has been a
participant in any other defined benefit plan (as defined in section 414(j) of
the Code) maintained by the town shall apply as if the total benefits payable
under all defined benefit plans in which the participant has been a participant
were payable from one plan.
      (3)   Adjustments in limitations.
         (A)   In the event the participant’s retirement benefits become
payable before age 62, the maximum amount of annual retirement income
limitation prescribed by this subsection shall be reduced in accordance with
regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the provisions
of section 415(b) of the Code, so that such limitation (as reduced) equals an
annual benefit (beginning when such retirement income begins) which is
equivalent to the Code section 415(b) maximum amount of annual retirement
income beginning at age 62. This limitation shall not apply to qualified police
or firefighters as that term is defined in Code section 415(b)(2)(G).
         (B)   In the event the participant’s benefit is based on at least 15
years of credited service, the adjustments provided for in subparagraph (A)
above shall not apply.
         (C)   The reduction provided for in subparagraph (A) above shall not
be applicable to disability benefits or pre-retirement death benefits.
         (D)   In the event the participant’s retirement benefit becomes
payable after age 65, for purposes of determining whether this benefit meets
the basic limitation set forth in paragraph (1) herein, such benefit shall be
adjusted so that it is actuarially equivalent to the benefit beginning at age
65. This adjustment shall be made using an assumed interest rate of 5% and
shall be made in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary of
the Treasury or his delegate.
         (E)   Less than ten years of service. The maximum retirement benefits
payable under this section to any participant who has completed less than ten
years of credited service with the town shall be the amount determined under
paragraph (1) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
the participant’s years of credited service and the denominator of which is
ten. The reduction provided for in this subparagraph shall not be applicable to
disability benefits or pre-retirement death benefits.
         (F)   $10,000 limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the retirement
benefit payable with respect to a participant shall be deemed not to exceed the
limitations in this subsection if the benefits payable, with respect to such
participant under this plan and under all other qualified defined benefit
pension plans to which the town contributes, do not exceed $10,000 for the
applicable plan year and for any prior plan year and the town has not at any
time maintained a qualified defined contributions plan in which the participant
participated.
         (G)   Reduction of benefits. Reduction of benefits and/or
contributions to all plans, where required, shall be accomplished by first
reducing the participant’s benefit under any defined benefit plans in which the
participant participated, such reduction to be made first with respect to the
plan in which participant most recently accrued benefits and thereafter in such
priority as shall be determined by the Board and the plan administrator of such
other plans, and next, by reducing or allocating excess forfeitures for defined
contribution plans in which the participant participated, such reduction to be
made first with respect to the plan in which participant most recently accrued
benefits and thereafter in such priority as shall be established by the Board
and the plan administrator for such other plans provided, however, that
necessary reductions may be made in different manner and priority pursuant to
the agreement of the Board and the plan administrator of all other plans
covering such participant.
         (H)   Cost-of-living adjustments. The limitations as stated herein
shall be adjusted annually in accordance with any cost-of-living adjustments
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 415(d) of the
Code.
      (4)   Additional limitation on pension benefits. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary:
         (A)   Effective for retirees who first became members after January 1,
1980, the normal retirement benefit or pension payable shall not exceed 100% of
his or her average final compensation. However, nothing contained in this
section shall apply to supplemental retirement benefits or to pension increases
attributable to cost- of-living increases or adjustments.
         (B)   No member of the System shall be allowed to receive a retirement
benefit or pension which is in part or in whole based upon any service with
respect to which the member is already receiving, or will receive in the
future, a retirement benefit or pension from another retirement system or plan.
This restriction does not apply to social security benefits or federal benefits
under Chapter 67, Title 10, U.S. Code.
      (5)   This section shall be effective for distributions after December
31, 2001.
   (j)   Direct transfer of eligible rollover distributions.
      (1)   General. This subsection applies to distributions made on or after
January 1, 1993. Notwithstanding any provision of the plan to the contrary that
would otherwise limit a distributee's election under this subsection, a
distributee may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Board of
Trustees, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid
directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a
direct rollover.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (A)   Eligible rollover distribution. An eligible rollover is any
distribution of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the
distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include:
any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic
payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life of (or life
expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies)
of the distributee and the distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a
specified period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such
distribution is required under section 401(a)9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue
Code; and the portion of any distribution that is not includable in gross
income.
         (B)   Eligible retirement plan. An eligible retirement plan is an
individual retirement account described in section 408(a) of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code, an individual retirement annuity described in section 408(b) of
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, an annuity plan described in section 403(a) of
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, that accepts the distributee’s eligible
rollover distribution. However, in the case of an eligible rollover
distribution to the surviving spouse, an eligible retirement plan is an
individual retirement account or individual retirement annuity.
         (C)   Distributee. A distributee includes an employee or former
employee. In addition, the employee’s or former employee’s surviving spouse is
a distributee with regard to the interest of the spouse.
         (D)   Direct rollover. A direct rollover is a payment by the plan to
the eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee.
   (k)   Required distributions.
      (1)   Effective for distributions after December 31, 1996, in accordance
with Internal Revenue Code section 401(a)(9), all benefits under this plan will
be distributed, beginning not later than the required beginning date set forth
below, over a period not extending beyond the life expectancy of the member or
the life expectancy of the member and a beneficiary.
      (2)   Any and all benefit payments shall begin by the later of:
         (A)   April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the
member’s retirement date; or
         (B)   April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the member attains age 72, provided the member had not attained age 70 1/
2 by December 31, 2019.
      (3)   If an employee dies before his entire vested interest has been
distributed to him, the remaining portion of such interest will be distributed
at least as rapidly as provided for under this plan.
      (4)   All distributions under this plan will be made in accordance with
this section, Code section 401(a)(9) and the regulations thereunder,
notwithstanding any provisions of this plan to the contrary, effective
beginning January 1, 2003.
   (l)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   Interest of member in System. All assets of the Fund shall be used
exclusively for the benefit of members or their beneficiaries pursuant to
Chapter 112, Florida Statutes. At no time shall any part of the corpus or
income of the Fund be used for or diverted to any purpose other than for the
exclusive benefit of members and their beneficiaries.
      (2)   No amendment or ordinance shall be adopted by the Town Commission
which shall have the effect of reducing the then accrued benefits of members or
a member’s beneficiaries. This section has no effect on prospective benefits.
      (3)   The System shall be created and maintained in the following manner:
         (A)   By the net proceeds of the .85% excise tax which may be imposed
by the town upon certain casualty insurance companies on their gross receipts
of premiums from holders of policies, which policies cover property within the
corporate limits of the town. Effective October 1, 2015, the Town can offset
its contribution by up to $54,044.91 of the annual Chapter 185 receipts. To the
extent that the Chapter 185 money annual receipt is in excess of $54,044.91,
the Town and its members will equally divide the excess, with the member half
being used to fund the defined contribution component provided for in §
11-54(e)(4) and the Town portion being used to offset its contribution to the
Plan.
         (B)   By the payment to the Fund of the member contribution as
provided for in §
11-54(d) for the duly appointed and enrolled members of the System. No member
shall have any right to the money so paid into the fund except as provided in
this section.
         (C)   By all fines and forfeitures imposed and collected from any
member officer because of the violation of any rule adopted by the Board of
Trustees.
         (D)   By payment by the municipality or other sources of a sum equal
to the normal cost and the amount required to fund any actuarial deficiency
shown by an actuarial valuation as provided in Part VII of Chapter 112, Florida
Statutes.
         (E)   By all gifts, bequests and devises when donated to the Fund.
         (F)   By all accretions to the Fund by way of interest or dividends on
bank deposits or otherwise.
         (G)   By all other sources of income now or hereafter authorized by
law for the augmentation of the System.
      (4)   Qualification of System:
         (A)   It is intended that the Plan be administered at all times in
accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the
corresponding Treasury Regulations applicable to a governmental defined benefit
retirement plan.
         (B)   In recognition of the changing requirements of Plan
qualification, the Board shall adopt an administrative policy setting forth the
required provisions for tax qualification. Such a policy shall be amended by
the Board as required to maintain continuing compliance with the Internal
Revenue Code and that policy and any amendments shall have the force of law as
if adopted by the Town Commission.
   (m)   Exemption from execution; non-assignability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the pensions, annuities, or
any other benefits accrued or accruing to any person under the provisions of
this section and the accumulated contributions and the cash securities in the
Fund created under this section are hereby exempted from any Florida state,
county or municipal tax and shall not be subject to execution, attachment,
garnishment or any legal process whatsoever and shall be unassignable; however,
the Fund is subject to an income deduction order for alimony and child support.
      (2)   Upon written request by the retiree, the Board of Trustees may
authorize the Plan administrator to withhold from the monthly retirement
payment funds necessary to:
         (A)   Pay for benefits being received through the town;
         (B)   Pay the certified bargaining agent; or
         (C)   Pay for premiums for accident health and long-term care
insurance for the retiree, the retiree's spouse and dependents. A retirement
plan does not incur liability for participation in this permissive program if
its actions are taken in good faith pursuant to Section 185.05(6), Florida
Statutes.
   (n)   Pension validity. The Board shall have the power to examine into the
facts upon which any pension shall heretofore have been granted under any prior
or existing law, or shall hereafter be granted or obtained erroneously,
fraudulently or illegally for any reason. Said Board is empowered to purge the
pension rolls of any person heretofore granted a pension under prior or
existing law or heretofore granted under this section if the same is found to
be erroneous, fraudulent or illegal for any reason: and to reclassify any
person who has heretofore under any prior or existing law been or who shall
hereafter under this section be erroneously, improperly or illegally
classified.
   (o)   Forfeiture of pension.
      (1)   Any member who is convicted of any one of the following offenses
committed prior to retirement, or whose employment is terminated by reason of
his or her admitted commission, aid or abetment of the following specified
offenses shall forfeit all rights and benefits under this System, except for
the return of his or her accumulated contributions as of the date of
termination. Specified offenses are as follows:
         (A)   The committing, aiding or abetting of an embezzlement of public
funds:
         (B)   The committing, aiding or abetting of any theft by a public
officer or employee from employer;
         (C)   Bribery in connection with the employment of a public officer or
employee;
         (D)   Any felony specified in Chapter 838, Florida Statutes;
         (E)   The committing of an impeachable offense; or
         (F)   The committing of any felony by a public officer or employee who
willfully and with intent to defraud the public or the public agency, for which
he or she acts or in which he or she is employed, of the right to receive the
faithful performance of his or her duty as a public officer or employee,
realizes or obtains or attempts to obtain a profit, gain, or advantage for
himself or herself or for some other person through the use or attempted use of
the power, rights, privileges, duties or position of his or her public office
or employment position.
      (2)   CONVICTION shall be defined as an adjudication of quilt by a court
of competent jurisdiction; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere; a jury verdict
of guilty when adjudication of quilt is withheld and the accused is place on
probation: or a conviction by the Senate of an impeachable offense.
      (3)   COURT shall be defined as any state or federal court of competent
jurisdiction which is exercising its jurisdiction to consider a proceeding
involving the alleged commission of a specified offense. Prior to forfeiture,
the Board shall hold a hearing on which notice shall be given to the member
whose benefits are being considered for forfeiture. Said member shall be
afforded the right to have an attorney present. No formal rules of evidence
shall apply, but the member shall be afforded a full opportunity to present his
or her case against forfeiture.
      (4)   Any member who has received benefits from the System in excess of
his or her accumulated contributions after member’s rights were forfeited shall
be required to pay back to the Fund the amount of the benefits received in
excess of his or her accumulated contributions. The Board may institute all
legal action necessary to recover such funds.
      (5)   False or misleading statements made to obtain retirement benefits
prohibited.
         (A)   It is unlawful for a person to willfully and knowingly make, or
cause to be made, or to assist, conspire with or urge another to make, or cause
to be made, any false, fraudulent or misleading oral or written statement or
withhold or conceal material information to obtain any benefit under this plan.
         (B)   1.   A person who violates subparagraph (1) commits a
misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable as provided in Sections 775.083 or
775.082, Florida Statutes.
            2.   In addition to any applicable penalty, upon conviction for a
violation described in subparagraph (1), a participant or beneficiary of this
plan may, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, be required to forfeit
the right to receive any or all benefits to which the person would otherwise be
entitled to under this plan. For purposes of subparagraph (1) CONVICTION means
a determination of guilt that is the result of a plea or a trial regardless of
whether adjudication is withheld.
   (p)   Indemnification.
      (1)   To the extent not covered by insurance contracts in force from time
to time, the town shall indemnify and hold harmless members of the Board from
all personal liability from damages and costs, including court costs and trial
and appellate attorney’s fees, arising out of claims, suits, litigation, or
threat of same, herein referred to as “claims,” against these individuals
because of acts or circumstances connected with or arising out of their
official duty as members of the Board. The town reserves the right, in its sole
discretion, to settle the claim at any time, and to appeal or not appeal from
any adverse judgment or ruling, and in either event will indemnify and hold
harmless any members of the Board from the judgment, execution, or levy
thereon.
      (2)   This section shall not apply nor shall the town be responsible in
any manner to defend or pay for claims arising out of acts or omissions of
members of the Board which constitute felonies or gross malfeasance or gross
misfeasance in office.
('75 Code, § 18-51) (Ord. 81-9, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. 90-05, passed 5-9-90;
Am. Ord. 94-03, passed 10-18-94; Am. Ord. 96-06, passed 9-18-96; Am. Ord. 98-
05, passed 10-29-98; Am. Ord. 2002-01, passed 2-20-02; Am. Ord. 2003-03,
adopted 11-17-04; Am. Ord. 2007-09, adopted 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 2007-13, adopted
1-23-08; Am. Ord. 2009-06, adopted 4-2-09; Am. Ord. 2012-02, adopted 5-16-12;
Am. Ord. 2017-04, adopted 11-15-17; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-21-20)
§ 11-55. AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (a)   There is hereby created a part-time auxiliary police force for the
town. The qualifications for such person shall be in compliance with the
Florida Department of Law Enforcement Policies and Procedures Manual. The
number of persons composing the force shall be determined by the Town Manager
after consulting with the Chief of Police.
('75 Code, § 18-33)
   (b)   The members of the auxiliary police force shall serve with no payment
or salary except under special circumstances approved by the Town Manager.
   (c)   The duties, powers, and functions of the auxiliary police force shall
be determined by the Chief of Police and shall be subject to approval by the
Town Commission.
   (d)   The creation of the auxiliary police force shall in no way affect the
operation and control of the regular Police Department of the town.
('75 Code, §§ 18-35 – 18-37) (Ord. passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 79-7, passed 3-27-
79)
§ 11-56. – 11-64. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. CIVIL SERVICE BOARD
§ 11-65. CIVIL SERVICE   
   (a)   The Town Commission may, but shall not be obligated to, create a civil
service system. Additionally, the Town Commission may, but shall not be
obligated to, provide for system rules and regulations. The system, any rules
and regulations, and the operation of the civil service system, if created,
must be consistent with the Town Charter to the extent that said system, rules
and regulations, and operation of the system is not inconsistent with Federal
and Florida law.
   (b)   Any civil service board that may be created, as well the substantive
law and procedural rules by which the system and board, if created, operate,
shall be as defined by the Town Commission.
('75 Code, § 18-17) (Ord. passed 12-8-70; Am. Ord. 79-7, passed 3-27-79; Am.
Ord. 92-04, passed 9-16-92)
§ 11-66. DECLARATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (a)   Intent. It is the intent of this article to establish and there is
hereby established a civil service system for the recruitment and hiring of
police officers as provided in this article.
   (b)   Policy. These regulations and any rules and regulations promulgated in
promotion hereof are based on merit principles and provide a means to assure
that all personnel actions, involving the recruitment and selection of police
officers shall be on the basis of their relative knowledge, skills and
abilities.
   (c)   Equal Employment Opportunity. There shall be no discrimination against
any person subject to civil service in recruitment, examination, or appointment
on the basis of political or religious opinions, affiliations, or because of
race, national origin, color, or other non-merit factors. There shall be no
discrimination on the basis of age, sex or physical disability, except where
specific age, sex or physical requirements constitute a bona fide occupational
qualification necessary for recruitment, appointment, and job performance. Age
may be considered as a proper consideration for pension plan provision and
benefits to the extent permitted by Federal or Florida law or regulation.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§ 11-67. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCEMENT. See PROMOTION.
   BOARD. The Civil Service Board created pursuant to this article.
   CIVIL SERVICE. Includes all sworn, law enforcement officer positions in the
town police department, excluding any law enforcement officer positions of the
rank of sergeant or above.
   ELIGIBILITY. A list of the names of persons who have been found qualified
through suitable tests for employment, arranged in order of merit.
   MEMBER. One of the five voting members of the Board, or, in their absence,
the alternate voting members.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who does not work regularly over twenty (20)
hours per week.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. Any employee who has filled a temporary appointment of a
position deemed to be of relatively short duration (usually less than six
months) without competition or review by the Board. The civil service rules
shall provide for temporary employment without examination, for a period of up
to six months, with successive temporary employment only when approved by the
Board in order to avoid stoppage of orderly conduct of the business of the
town.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§ 11-68. CIVIL SERVICE BOARD; ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Composition and qualification. The Town Commission shall appoint a
five-member Civil Service Board and two alternate members. Alternates serving
in place of regular members shall be vested with all powers and duties of the
position. Each member of the Board shall be a qualified elector residing in the
town. Members shall not hold any elective public office. Members shall not be
employees of the town.
   (b)   Terms. Excepting the Police Chief and any town employee, members of
the Civil Service Board pre-existing the adoption of this section shall
complete their existing terms as members of the Board organized by this
section, unless otherwise removed by the Town Commission as provided for
herein. All other appointees shall be appointed for a term of four years.
Members may be reappointed from term to term by the Town Commission. Members of
the Board appointed after the adoption of this section shall hold office until
their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified.
   (c)   Compensation. All members of the Board appointed by the Town
Commission shall serve without compensation.
   (d)   Chairperson, quorum. Members of the Board shall annually elect one of
its members as Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. Three voting members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (e)   Vacancies. Any member who is no longer a qualified elector residing in
the town or who fails to attend three successive meetings without good cause,
as determined by the Board Chairperson, or in said Chairperson's absence, the
Board Vice-Chairperson, shall immediately forfeit his appointment and the Town
Commission may determine a vacancy to exist which shall be filled by the Town
Commission. A member of the Board may be removed from the Board by the Town
Commission after a public hearing by the Town Commission at any time.
Appointments to fill any vacancy shall be for the remainder of the unexpired
term of the former member.
   (f)   Rules of order and procedure, minutes and clerical assistance. Subject
to the approval of the Board, the Town Manager, in consultation with the Town
Attorney, may prepare and submit such meeting rules and procedures as may be
desirable and necessary to promote and effectuate the purposes, objectives and
business of the Board in an orderly, timely and productive manner. Minutes and
records shall be maintained of all meetings and proceedings of the Board. The
Town Manager, in coordination with the Town Clerk, shall provide clerical and
administrative assistance and personnel as may be reasonably required by the
Board for the proper performance of its duties.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90)
§ 11-69. CIVIL SERVICE BOARD DUTIES.
   (a)   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Keep such records as may be necessary for the proper administration
of the Board's responsibilities hereunder;
      (2)   Establish and maintain, for the Board's use only, a roster of the
Police Department in the service of the town, showing their classifications;
      (3)   Be advised of an organizational chart created by the Chief of
Police;
      (4)   Advise and make recommendations to the Town Manager and Police
Chief relating to the recruitment and appointment of police officers (other
than temporary employees or part-time employees) into civil service positions;
and
      (5)   Recommend to the Town Commission and the Town Manager any
amendments or revisions to the civil service rules and regulations.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§ 11-70. CIVIL SERVICE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The Town Commission shall coordinate with the Town Manager and
promulgate civil service rules and regulations for the recruitment and
appointment of police officers (other than temporary employees or part-time
employees) into civil service positions. Such rules and regulations may provide
for selection and appointment procedures.
   (b)   The initial civil service rules and regulations to be adopted pursuant
to this subchapter shall be adopted by the Town Commission. Periodically,
amendments may be proposed by the Town Manager, Town Attorney, Chief of Police,
an individual Commissioner or a Board Member. All amendments shall be first
reviewed by the Town Manager and a recommendation made. All amendments
thereafter shall be reviewed by the Board and a recommendation made.
Thereafter, the proposed amendment shall be presented to the Town Commission
for final action.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§ 11-71. POSITIONS SUBJECT TO CIVIL SERVICE; EXAMINATIONS, ELIGIBILITY LISTS,
CERTIFICATION, AND VACANCIES.
   (a)   Applicants for other than part-time employee or temporary employee
service who are seeking appointment to civil service positions in the Police
Department shall be subject to civil service, as provided in this article.
   (b)   The Civil Service Board, in its discretion, may provide oral or
written examinations and maintain lists of individuals eligible to appointment
in the civil service employee positions. Said Board may certify a list to the
members of each grade in each department subject to civil service. Said lists
may be certified to the Town Manager at such time as may be determined by said
Board, but not less than once a year, or as requested by the Town Manager from
time to time, and shall be available for examination by any member of the civil
service system during regular business hours of the town. Appointments may, but
are not required to, be made to fill vacancies from the list of eligible
applicants. The list of eligible applicants shall be advisory to the Chief of
Police and the Town Manager.
(Ord. 90-10, passed 11-14-90; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§ 11-72. APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   This article shall not abrogate the terms of any subsequently enacted
collective bargaining agreement nor deprive any employee of any rights or
benefits contained therein.
   (b)   This article shall not restrict the Town Manager from establishing and
rescinding, at his discretion, such management and administrative policies,
guidelines, criteria, regulations and procedures as are necessary or desirable
to affect his management responsibility for efficient and effective personnel
administration so long as these are not inconsistent with the Town Charter. All
such management policies and procedures should be in written form.
   (c)   This article shall not restrict the Town Manager from appointing,
suspending, demoting or dismissing any town employee under his jurisdiction in
accordance with this article and the civil service and personnel rules, all as
may be necessary or desirable to affect his management responsibility for
efficient and effective personnel administration so long as such action is not
inconsistent with the Town Charter.
(Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 7-21-93)
§§ 11-73. – 11-79. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 11-80. ESTABLISHMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   The subdepartment of Office of Public Properties shall administratively be
arranged as a subdepartment under the Department of Public Works, and the
administrator of that subdepartment shall be directly responsible to the Town
Manager.
('75 Code, § 2-2(b)) (Ord. 77-3, passed 10-25-77)
§ 11-81. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Office of Public Properties shall be administered by the Public
Works Director.
   (b)   This administrator shall be responsible for carrying out the general
administration of town property by:
      (1)   Maintaining all public grounds, buildings, works, utilities,
automotive equipment and machinery;
      (2)   Supervising construction and maintenance of streets, gutters,
sidewalks, storm sewers, street lighting and similar facilities on behalf of
the town;
      (3)   Maintaining parks, playgrounds, beach areas, the town pier and
similar facilities operated by the town;
      (4)   Supervising the design and engineering of public facilities of the
town; and
      (5)   Supervision of the public works employees.
('75 Code, § 2-2(a)) (Ord. 77-3, passed 10-25-77)
§§ 11-82. – 11-89. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. TOWN PARKS BOARD
§ 11-90. ESTABLISHMENT; APPOINTED MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created the Melbourne Beach Parks Board, which shall consist
of five members plus two alternate members established by the Town Commission.
The alternate members will have a voice but not a vote in all Town Parks Board
deliberations, unless one or more regular members are absent, in which case the
alternate members are authorized to vote in accordance with their designation
as alternate member No. 1 and alternate member No. 2, in that order. Each
member and alternate member shall be at all times a resident and registered
voter of the Town.
(Ord. 87-17, passed 12-8-87; Am. Ord. 90-3, passed 3-14-90)
§ 11-91. TERMS.
   The members and the alternate members of the town Parks Board shall be
appointed for two-year terms. Successor members and alternate members shall be
appointed for a period of two years whether for a new term or to replace a
member whose term expired prematurely.
(Ord. 87-17, passed 12-8-87; Am. Ord. 90-3, passed 3-14-90)
§ 11-92. OFFICERS; RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   Members of the Parks Board shall annually appoint one of the members as
Chairperson. The presence of three members shall constitute a quorum. The Board
shall formulate its own rules, policies, and procedures as needed.
(Ord. 87-17, passed 12-8-87)
§ 11-93. POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Park Board is created and shall have the power and authority to research
and study all resources and assets available to the town in an effort to
furnish recommendations and suggestions to the Town Commission and Town Manager
to improve, enhance, and manage existing parks and to create and develop new
parks and park facilities. In addition, said Board shall give its
recommendations to the Town Manager as to approval or denial of each special
events permit request.
(Ord. 87-17, passed 12-8-87)
Cross-reference:
   Special events, see
Chapter 52
§ 11-94. PARKS AND PARK FACILITIES.
   Parks and park facilities shall include the town pier, parks and beach
accesses, community center building and recreational facilities, and any other
facilities which may in the future be used for museums, zoological gardens,
observatories or such other facilities utilized for cultural events.
(Ord. 87-17, passed 12-8-87)
§§ 11-95. – 11-99. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY BOARD
§ 11-100. ESTABLISHMENT; APPOINTED MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created the Melbourne Beach Environmental Advisory Board,
which shall consist of five members plus two alternate members. The alternate
members will have a voice but not a vote in all Environmental Advisory Board
deliberations, unless one or more regular members is absent, in which case the
alternate members are authorized to vote in accordance with their designation
as alternate member number one and alternate member number two, in that order.
Each member and alternate member shall be at all times a resident and
registered voter of the town.
(Ord. 92-02, passed 4-15-92)
§ 11-101. TERMS.
   The members and the alternate members of the town Environmental Advisory
Board shall be appointed for two year terms. Successor members and alternate
members shall be appointed for a period of two years, whether for a new term or
to replace a member or alternate member who resigned or passed away, who was
removed from membership on the Board, or whose term expired prematurely.
§ 11-102. OFFICERS; RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Members of the Environmental Advisory Board shall annually select one
of the members as Chairperson and another member as Vice-Chairperson.
   (b)   The presence of three members shall constitute a quorum.
   (c)   The Board shall formulate its own rules, policies, and procedures as
needed. In absence of formulation of said rules, Roberts' Rules of Order shall
be utilized.
   (d)   All meetings of the Board and an agenda of said meeting shall be
advertised at least three days prior to said meeting by posting a notice at
Town Hall setting forth the time, place, and date of said meeting, an agenda of
said meeting, and notice that parties aggrieved by determinations of the Board
in order to appeal to a court may need to ensure that a transcript of said
meeting is prepared. Preparation of any transcript shall be the responsibility
of and at the cost and expense of the aggrieved party.
   (e)   Minutes shall be taken at all Board meetings, and consistent with the
Government-in-the-Sunshine Act, Section 286.011, Florida Statutes, all meetings
shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 92-02, passed 4-15-92)
§ 11-103. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Environmental Advisory Board is created and shall have the power and
authority to:
      (1)   Upon request by the Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board,
or the Local Planning Agency, review and make advisory comments with regard to
environmental ordinances and resolutions, or provisions thereof, including but
not limited to the Town's Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Work through and coordinate with the Town Manager's office the
identification of Town properties needing improved stormwater retention/
detention;
      (3)   Work through and coordinate with the Town Manager's office to
identify environmentally sensitive properties and consider the means to protect
said properties;
      (4)   Work through the Town Manager's office and develop a program and
coordinate with area schools to educate students concerning the need to
preserve and protect the environment;
      (5)   Coordinate through the Town Manager's office in an effort to create
a citizens' “adoption” program by which citizens can adopt, provide for, and
fund the beautification, cleaning, or maintenance of the cleanliness of
portions of beaches, roads, or other natural resources, subject to the
ownership and control of the Town;
      (6)   After consideration of the costs involved and funding sources,
recommend to the Town Manager and the Town Commission specific environmental
protection measures; and
      (7)   Undertake such tasks relating to the environment as may from time
to time be requested by the Town Commission.
(Ord. 92-02, passed 4-15-92)
§§ 11-104. – 11-109. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. AUDITOR SELECTION COMMITTEE
§ 11-110. AUTHORITY.
   This article is enacted pursuant to and in accordance with Section 218.391,
Florida Statutes, Auditor Selection Procedures.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§ 11-111. CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to, and in accordance with Section 218.391, Florida Statutes, an
Auditor Selection Committee shall be created and established for the town.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§ 11-112. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In accordance with Section 218.391, Florida Statutes, the primary purpose of
the Auditor Selection Committee shall be to assist the Town Commission to
contract with an auditor to conduct the annual financial audit as required in
Section 218.391, Florida Statutes; and to conduct other audit oversight
purposes as determined by the Town Commission.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§ 11-113. PUBLIC MEETING AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Auditor Selection Committee shall be open to the public
and all committee records shall be public records.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§ 11-114. MEMBERSHIP.
   There shall be five members on the Auditor Selection Committee. Each member
of the Auditor Selection Committee shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
Town Commission and each member shall serve staggered terms as set forth in the
rules and procedure established by the initial committee.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§ 11-115. FUNDS.
   The Town Commission shall appropriate funds, at its discretion, for Auditor
Selection Committee expenses necessary to conduct its work.
(Ord. 6-2005, adopted 11-2-05)
§§ 11-116. — 11.119. RESERVED.
ARTICLE X. HISTORY CENTER BOARD
§ 11-120. ESTABLISHMENT; APPOINTED MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created the Melbourne Beach History Center Board, which
shall consist of seven members plus two alternate members. The alternate
members will have a voice but not a vote in all History Center Board
deliberations, unless one or more regular member is absent, in which case the
alternate members are authorized to vote in accordance with their designation
as alternate member number one and alternate member number two, in that order.
Each member and alternate member shall be at all times a resident and
registered elector of the town.
(Ord. 2006-16, adopted 12-13-06)
§ 11-121. TERMS.
   The members and the alternate members of the History Center Board shall be
appointed for two-year terms. Successor members shall be appointed for the
remainder of a term, whether to replace a member or alternate member who has
resigned or passed away, who was removed from membership on the Board or whose
term expired prematurely.
(Ord. 2006-16, adopted 12-13-06)
§ 11-122. OFFICERS; RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Members of the History Center Board shall annually select one of the
members as Chairperson and another member as Vice Chairperson.
   (b)   The presence of four members shall constitute a quorum.
   (c)   The Board shall formulate its own rules, policies, and procedures as
needed. In the absence of formulation of said rules, Robert’s Rules of Order
shall be utilized.
   (d)   All meetings of the Board and an agenda of its meetings shall be
advertised as least 24 hours prior to a meeting by posting a notice at Town
Hall setting forth the time, place, and date of said meeting, an agenda of said
meeting, and notice that parties aggrieved by determinations of the Board in
order to appeal to a court they may need to ensure that a transcript of said
meeting is prepared. Preparation of any transcript shall be the responsibility
of and at the cost and expense of the aggrieved party.
   (e)   Minutes shall be taken at all Board meetings, and consistent with The
Government - In The Sunshine Act, Section 286.011, Florida Statutes, all
meetings shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2006-16, adopted 12-13-06)
§ 11-123. POWERS, DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   The History Center Board is created and shall have the power, duty, and
authority to:
   (a)   Consider matters relating to preservation of the Old Town Hall
Building as directed by the Town Commission;
   (b)   To work through and coordinate with the Town Manager’s Office in
preparing budgetary items for or related to the Old Town Hall Building;
   (c)   To give consideration to, review and make advisory comments and
recommendations to the Town Commission with regard to operations and use of the
Old Town Hall Building as directed by the Town Commission, or as provided by
resolution which may be adopted by the Town Commission from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-16, adopted 12-13-06)
CHAPTER 12: TOWN EMPLOYEES
Section
Article I. Social Security; Retirement Plan
   
12-1   Social Security coverage for municipal officials and employees;
exemption
   12-2 – 12-14   Reserved
Article II. Florida Retirement System*
   
12-15   Benefits extended; when effective
   
12-16   Effective date
   
12-17   Implementation
   
12-18   Appropriation from town funds
   
12-19   Records; reports
   
12-20   Town Manager as Administrator
   
12-21   Acceptance of conditions of Florida Retirement System
   12-22 – 12-99   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Police Department retirement plan, see §
11-54
* State law reference:
   Florida Retirement System, Fla. Stat., Chapter 121
ARTICLE I. SOCIAL SECURITY; RETIREMENT PLAN
§ 12-1. SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE; EXEMPTION.
   (a)   By authority of Chapter 650, Florida Statutes, in order to extend to
officials and employees of the town, except as such as are hereinafter
excluded, the coverage of the Old-age and Survivors Insurance system embodied
in the Social Security Act, as amended, is hereby adopted by the town.
('75 Code, § 2-11) (Ord. passed 11-16-62)
   (b)   All part-time employees shall be excluded from the social security
coverage provided for in division (a) of this section.
('75 Code, § 2-12) (Ord. passed 12-11-73)
§§ 12-2. – 12-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 12-15. BENEFITS EXTENDED; WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the Town of Melbourne
Beach to extend, effective December 1, 2006, to its employees, officers, and
officials thereof, not excluded by law or excepted herein, the benefits of the
Florida Retirement System as authorized by Chapter 121, Florida Statutes to
cover by such plan all services which constitute employment as defined in
Chapter 121, Florida Statutes performed in the employ of the town by employees,
officers, and officials thereof.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-16. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (a)   As a result of a referendum conducted among town employees and having
satisfied other procedures and conditions, the effective date was duly
established by the Commission as December 1, 2006. All officers and employees
choosing to participate in the program and any officers and employees hired
subsequent to that date shall be compulsory members of the Florida Retirement
System.
   (b)   The town does hereby adopt the terms, conditions, requirements,
reservations, benefits, privileges, and other conditions, thereunto
appertaining, of the Florida Retirement System, for and on behalf of all
officers and employees of its departments and agencies to be covered under the
agreement.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-17. IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the State Department of Administration
for the purpose of extending the benefits provided by the Florida Retirement
System to the employees and officials of this town as provided in §§
12-21 and
12-22, which agreements shall provide for such methods of administration of the
plan by the town as are found in the Administrator of the Florida Retirement
System to be necessary and proper, and shall be effective with respect to any
employment covered by such agreement for services performed on and after
December 1, 2006.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-18. APPROPRIATION FROM TOWN FUNDS.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts and at such
times as may be required to pay promptly the contributions and assessments
required of the town which shall be paid over to the lawfully designated
administrator of the Florida Retirement System at the times and in the manner
provided by law and regulation.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-19. RECORDS; REPORTS.
   The town shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by
applicable state laws or regulations, and shall adhere to all laws and
regulations relating to the Florida Retirement System.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-20. TOWN MANAGER AS ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   The Town Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated the
custodian of the appropriated funds for the employer’s contribution.
   (b)   The Town Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated the
withholding and reporting agent and charged with the duty of maintaining
records for the purposes of this article.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§ 12-21. ACCEPTANCE OF CONDITIONS OF FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The Town of Melbourne Beach does hereby adopt the terms, conditions,
requirements, reservations, benefits, privileges, and other conditions
thereunto appertaining, of the Florida Retirement System, for and on behalf of
all employees, officers, and officials of its departments to be covered under
the agreement.
(Ord. 2006-11, adopted 11-15-06)
§§ 12-22 – 12-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 13: ELECTIONS
Section
   
13-1   Permanent single registration system adopted (Repealed)
   
13-1.1   Appointment of campaign treasurer; designation of a campaign
depository
   
13-1.2   Candidate campaign finance
   
13-2   Nominating petitions
   
13-3   Examination of petitions; ordering names to be placed on ballots
   
13-4   Town Clerk to have ballots printed
   
13-5   Adoption of state law by reference
   
13-5.1   Elections qualifying officer
   
13-5.2   Grievances
   
13-6   Time and method of candidate qualification
   
13-6.1   Non-partisan elections
   
13-7   Ordinances proposed by citizens' initiatives
   13-8 – 13-99   Reserved
§ 13-1. PERMANENT SINGLE REGISTRATION SYSTEM ADOPTED. (REPEALED).
('75 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 1-26-71)
§ 13-1.1. APPOINTMENT OF CAMPAIGN TREASURER; DESIGNATION OF A CAMPAIGN
DEPOSITORY.
   (a)   No person shall accept any contribution or make any expenditure with a
view to bringing about his or her election to the Town Commission, or authorize
another person to accept such contributions or make such expenditures on the
person's behalf, unless such person has appointed a campaign treasurer,
designated a primary campaign depository for monetary contributions, and
declared the office that the person is seeking.
   (b)   The Appointment of Campaign Treasurer/ Designation of Campaign
Depository form must be submitted to the Town Clerk prior to opening a
candidate campaign account. No designations or appointments shall be considered
official until received by the Town Clerk and accepted by the designee.
   (c)   A prospective candidate may appoint himself or herself as the campaign
treasurer. The designated campaign treasurer must accept the appointment in
writing and file said writing in the office of the Town Clerk before the
appointment may become effective.
(Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-1.2. CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCE.
   Pursuant to Section 106.023, Florida Statutes, the candidate is responsible
for comprehending Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, regarding campaign financing
and reporting all campaign donations and loans and all expenditures. The
candidate must ensure that they follow all rules and regulations pertaining to
contributions and expenditures, including timely submission of itemized
contribution and expenditure forms. Within ten (10) days of the date of filing
the Appointment of Campaign Treasurer/Designation of Campaign Depository form
referenced in §
13-1.1, a prospective candidate shall also file a statement of candidate that a
candidate has reviewed and understands the statutory requirements for campaign
financing as set forth in Chapter 106, Florida Statutes, and required by
Section 106.023, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-2. NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   (a)   Required; number of signatures; filing. Every candidate for elective
town office, excepting a write-in candidate, shall file with the Town Clerk a
petition signed by not less than 25 qualified electors of the town requesting
the Town Commission to place the name of such candidate upon the official
ballot. The petition shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk as provided
for in §
13-6.
   (b)   Form of petition. The petition of any person seeking to qualify as a
candidate for office in the town shall be in the following form:
      “We, the undersigned qualified electors of the Town of Melbourne Beach,
Florida, hereby request that the name of                   be placed on the
Official Ballot for the Office of                .” (Said Ballot to be used in
the Town Election to be held on the          day of       , 20   ) “We further
certify that we have signed the Petition of no other Candidate for this
particular Office in this Election.”
   (c)   Electors are not to sign more than one petition. It shall be unlawful
for any person to sign the petition of more than one candidate for any one
office in any one election. If an elector's signature appears on two or more
petitions for any office submitted to the Town Clerk, the elector's signature
shall be declared by the Town Clerk to be invalid on the petition(s) submitted
later in time than the first petition submitted to the Town Clerk upon which
said elector's name shall appear, the intent being that said elector's
signature shall be valid on only one petition.
   (d)   Copies of petition to be made available to public. Copies of
nominating petitions required by this chapter shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk and made available without cost to any individual.
('75 Code, §§ 10-2 – 10-5)
   (e)   Time of collection of signature on nominating petition. Signatures on
all nominating petitions shall not be collected prior to filing with the Town
Clerk the Appointment of Campaign Treasurer/Designation of Campaign Depository
form and the loyalty oath form referenced in §§
13-1.1 and
13-6 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 91.04, passed 5-31-91; Am. Ord. 5-2005, adopted 11-2-05; Am. Ord.
2010-04, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-03, adopted 4-16-14)
§ 13-3. EXAMINATION OF PETITIONS; ORDERING NAMES TO BE PLACED ON BALLOTS.
   The Town Commission shall hold a meeting as soon as practicable after the
deadline for qualifying to ascertain whether or not the petitions are in order,
the filing fees paid and that all candidates, including write-in candidates,
have met the other applicable requirements for qualification. If those
candidates are found to be qualified, the Commission shall order that the names
of the candidates, excepting write-in candidates, be placed upon the ballot for
the office which they are seeking. In the case of write-in candidates, if the
Town Commission determines that said candidates meet the applicable
requirements for qualification, then the Commission shall approve said
candidates participating as write-in candidates. Subject to the ability of the
Town Commission to serve as the judge of qualifications of candidates as
provided by the town charter, any candidate (excepting write-in candidates) who
has qualified as prescribed by law and this code is entitled to have his or her
name printed on the official election ballot. However, when there is only one
candidate, including a write-in candidate, qualified for an office, the name of
the candidate, excluding write-in candidates, shall not be printed on the
election ballot, and such candidate shall be declared nominated for the office.
('75 Code, § 10-7) (Am. Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-4. TOWN CLERK TO HAVE BALLOTS PRINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to cause the ballot to be printed
containing all of the names of those persons who have qualified as candidates,
excluding write-in candidates, in the manner provided by this chapter, or to
coordinate with the supervisor of elections, to accomplish the same. In
addition to the names of the candidates, referenda shall also be placed upon
the ballot following the ballot positions for candidates for Town Commission.
('75 Code, § 10-8) (Am. Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-5. ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   Except to the extent inconsistent with the town charter or this code, the
town hereby adopts The Florida Election Code, Chapters 97 through 107, Florida
Statutes, by reference as part of this chapter as fully as if set out at length
herein.
(Am. Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-5.1. ELECTIONS QUALIFYING OFFICER.
   (a)   The Town Clerk is the designated town elections qualifying officer.
The Town Clerk is responsible for:
      (1)   Preparing election packets for candidates wishing to qualify for
the Town Commission;
      (2)   Collecting required forms and fees from candidates seeking
qualification;
      (3)   Filing all appropriate election documentation on behalf of the town
with the state elections office and the Brevard County supervisor of elections;
      (4)   Counting and validating all candidate petition signatures for
recommendation to the Town Commission;
      (5)   Assisting candidates with information concerning deadlines,
appointments, and important dates;
      (6)   Collecting campaign reports; and
      (7)   Recording and storing election documents in accordance with
appropriate records retention procedures.
   (b)   The town Clerk/elections qualifying officer is not:
      (1)   Responsible for interpreting election law;
      (2)   Capable of filing or taking election complaints made by candidates,
citizens, or Town Commissioners not running for office;
      (3)   Responsible for errors or omissions on documents submitted by
candidates running for office; and
      (4)   A policing agent for town elections. Concerns and complaints are to
be directed to the Florida Elections Commission.
(Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-5.2. GRIEVANCES.
   All complaints, inquiries, and concerns shall be directed to the Florida
Elections Commission; the Town Clerk/elections qualifying officer is not
responsible for interpreting the Florida Election Code or the provisions of
Chapter 13 of the town code.
(Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-6. TIME AND METHOD OF CANDIDATE QUALIFICATION.
   (a)   Each candidate seeking the office of Mayor or Town Commission member
shall seek to qualify for election to that office in the manner prescribed by
the Town Charter, on or before 12:00 noon of the 81st day, but not earlier than
noon of the 85th day, prior to the date of such election. Payment of the
applicable fees and filing of paperwork to qualify, as set forth in sub-section
(b), must be filed during the qualifying period. In computing the qualification
days, the election day is to be excluded, but all Sundays and holidays are to
be included. Should the 81st day preceding an election fall on a Sunday,
Saturday, or holiday, the qualification papers, and payment of the applicable
fee, all as set forth in sub-section (b) must be filed on or before 12:00 noon
on the preceding business day. Each person seeking to qualify for election to
office as a write-in candidate shall qualify for election to that office in the
same manner prescribed by the Town Charter, on or before 12:00 noon of the 81st
day prior to the general election but not earlier than noon of the 85th day
prior to the election. If the 81st day preceding an election falls on a Sunday,
Saturday, or holiday, the qualification papers to run as a write-in candidate
must be filed on or before 12:00 noon on the preceding business day.
   (b)   Subject to the power of the Town Commission to act as the judge of
qualifications for candidates to hold elective office in the town, to qualify
for the office of Mayor or Town Commissioner, a person must:
      (1)   Be a qualified elector of the town at the time of qualification;
      (2)   Have maintained continuous residency within the town for at least
six (6) continuous months immediately prior to the date of qualification for
the office sought;
      (3)   Submit a nominating petition completed consistent with section
13-2 signed by twenty-five (25) qualified town electors who are qualified
electors at the time of submission to the Town Clerk of the nominating
petition;
      (4)   Comply with Section 99.093, Florida Statutes, and section
13-6(c) of this code, with regard to payment of the qualifying fee/Florida
Department of State election trust fund assessment fee;
      (5)   Submit a sworn statement under oath of his or her name, address,
occupation, that said person possesses all of the qualifications required by
law and this code for the office, the name of the office he seeks, and that
said candidate is in compliance with paragraphs (1) and (2) above;
      (6)   File a loyalty oath as required by Section 876.05, Florida
Statutes;
      (7)   Submit a statement of a willingness to serve as required by the
town charter;
      (8)   File a statement of financial interests (financial disclosure form)
as required by Section 99.061, Florida Statutes. As provided in Section 99.061
(7)(a)5., a person seeking to qualify who has previously filed a full and
public financial disclosure or statement of financial interests with the
Florida Commission on Ethics or the supervisor of elections prior to qualifying
for office may file a copy of that disclosure at the time of qualifying;
      (9)   File a candidate oath as required by Section 99.021, Florida
Statutes; and
      (10)   Submit or file such other documentation as may be required by the
Brevard County Supervisor of Elections and/or the state division of elections.
All of the foregoing information must be filed with the Town Clerk in proper,
complete, fully executed, and legal form during the time of qualification as
set forth in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Payment of qualifying fee. With the exception of write-in candidates,
at the time an individual seeks to qualify as a candidate for the office of
Town Commissioner or Mayor, the candidate shall pay a qualifying fee as
described in the town charter. The qualifying fee is co-extensive with and
consists of the payment of the Florida Department of State election trust fund
assessment fee. Pursuant to Section 99.093, Florida Statutes, the assessment/
qualifying fee is equivalent to one percent (1%) of the annual salary of the
position to which the candidate seeks election. All payments of fees and
assessments must be made in the form of a check drawn on the candidate's
campaign account. As required by Section 99.093, Florida Statutes, any person
seeking to qualify for Town Commission who is required to pay and who is unable
to pay the election assessment without imposing an undue burden on personal
resources, shall certify of such inability under oath in the presence of the
qualifying officer. Thereafter, the individual shall be excused from paying a
qualifying or election trust fund assessment fee.
   (d)   Qualification of write-in candidates.
      (1)   Each person seeking to qualify for election to office as a write-in
candidate shall file his or her qualification papers with the Town Clerk during
the period for qualifying as a candidate. All write-in candidates shall comply
with subsection (b)(1), (2), and (5) through (10), above. Any person who is
seeking election as a write-in candidate shall not be required to pay a
qualifying fee or election assessment.
      (2)   A write-in candidate is not entitled to have his or her name
printed on any ballot; however, space for the write-in candidate's name to be
written in must be provided on the election ballot. At the time of certifying
under oath compliance with the above information in subsection (b)(1), (2),
(5), (6), and (9) and filing the required information in subsection (b)(7),
(8), and (10), a write-in candidate shall be considered a candidate. A person
may not qualify as a write-in candidate if the person has also otherwise
qualified for nomination or election to such office. Failure to qualify as a
write-in candidate shall mean that any write-in votes cast for such person
shall not be counted.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 9-19-01; Am. Ord. 2008-07, adopted 7-2-08; Am. Ord. 2010-
04, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-03, adopted 4-16-14; Am. Ord. 2019-02,
adopted 7-17-19)
§ 13-6.1. NON-PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   All elections for the office of Town Commission, including Mayor and Town
Commissioner, shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis without any designation
of political party affiliation, and those elected shall be chosen at large by
the electors of the town.
(Ord. 2010-04, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 13-7. ORDINANCES PROPOSED BY CITIZENS' INITIATIVES.
   (a)   Preparation to circulate a petition.
      (1)   Formation of a political committee. As required by § 106.03,
Florida Statutes, each political committee which is seeking the signatures of
registered electors in support of an initiative shall file a statement of
organization as provided in § 106.03, Florida Statutes, within ten days after
its organization or, if later, within ten days after the date on which it has
information which causes the committee to anticipate that it will receive
contributions or make expenditures in excess of $500. If a political committee
is organized within ten days of any election, it shall immediately file the
statement of organization required by this section. As used herein, the term
"political committee" shall be as defined from time to time by § 106.011,
Florida Statutes, and shall generally mean a combination of two or more
individuals, or a person other than an individual, the primary or incidental
purpose of which is to support or oppose any candidate, issue, or political
party, which accepts contributions or makes expenditures during a calendar year
in an aggregate amount in excess of $500. Corporations regulated by Chapter 607
or Chapter 617, Florida Statutes or other business entities formed for purposes
other than to support or oppose issues or candidates are not political
committees if their political activities are limited to contributions to
candidates, political parties, or political committees or expenditures in
support of or opposition to an issue from corporate or business funds and if no
contributions are received by such corporations or business entities. The
procedure afforded by this provision will provide a reporting method for the
circulators to receive and expend funds to reproduce petitions and pay for
their verification.
      (2)   Meeting with Town Attorney. Prior to preparing a petition to
initiate a proposal to adopt a new Town Charter or code provision or amend or
repeal a then existing provision of the Town Charter or code, the circulators
proposing to circulate said petition should meet with the Town Attorney for
coordination in drafting the appropriate language.
      (3)   Meeting with Town Clerk and supervisor of elections. After meeting
with the Town Attorney, the circulators shall meet with the Town Clerk and the
supervisor of elections to assure that the form of the petition and method of
circulation meets the applicable requirements of law, the Charter, and this
Code. The cost of said meeting(s), if any, shall be at the cost of the
individuals proposing to circulate said petitions to initiate Charter or code
alteration and shall not exceed the actual cost that is incurred.
   (b)   Any proposed ordinance, including ordinances for adoption of new
provisions in the Charter or code, or the repeal or amendment of Charter
provisions or ordinances then in effect, may be submitted to the Town
Commission by petition signed by registered electors of the town as provided in
the Town Charter. All petitions circulated with respect to any proposed Charter
or ordinance proposal shall be uniform in character and shall contain the
proposed ordinance in full. Each person executing said petition shall sign said
elector's name substantially as provided in the elections rolls of the county
supervisor of elections. Thereafter on said petition, each elector executing
the aforesaid petition shall print said elector's name and street address,
including the municipality of residence, date of execution of the aforesaid
petition, voter registration identification number, date of birth, and election
precinct number, all in ink. Failure to include all of this information on the
petition shall cause the individual's petition signature to be invalidated.
This information shall be placed on the petition adjacent to said elector's
signature. The signatures on any such petition need not all be appended to one
paper but to each page of said petition there shall be attached an affidavit by
the circulators thereof stating: the number of signers to the portion of the
petition so circulated; that each signature appended to the petition is the
genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be; and that said
petition was signed in the presence of the affiant and on the date indicated.
Said affidavit shall be completed before a notary public of the state and
acknowledged thereby.
   (c)   Petitions submitted pursuant to division (b) must be gathered within a
period of not more than 90 consecutive days which period shall be ascertained
by examining the date of the earliest signed petition and the date of the
latest signed petition as submitted to the Town Commission.
   (d)   Validation of petitions. Under the initiative and referendum process
set forth in this section, it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to assemble
all copies of any petitions filed as one instrument and to examine the same and
ascertain and validate within ten days of submission thereof whether signatures
thereon were gathered within 90 days, and whether the petition has been
properly completed to include all required information of town electors and
properly attested to by circulator affiants. If at least the requisite number
of signatures as required by the Charter or State Law, as applicable, on the
petition do not meet the foregoing requirements, the Town Clerk shall not
validate said petition, and notice of same shall be given promptly to the party
submitting the petition. The petition shall be rejected by the Town Clerk.
   (e)   Verification of signatures on petitions. If at least the requisite
number of signatures as required by the Charter on the petition do meet the
foregoing requirements, the petition shall be validated by the Town Clerk
pending submission to the county supervisor of elections to verify the
signatures and registration status of those individuals executing the petition,
all in a manner prescribed and permitted by Florida law. only the signatures of
town electors may be utilized to satisfy the Charter or state law requirements
as to the minimum number of registered voters required to execute the afore-
described petitions to alter the town code of ordinances or to alter the
Charter. Any cost of signature verification of said petition signatures
assessed by the supervisor of elections shall be subject to requirements set
forth in § 99.097, Florida Statutes, as amended or superseded from time to
time. Further, the Town Clerk shall obtain from the petition circulators
payment for verification of the petition signatures prior to the time of
submission of the petitions to the supervisor of elections. Said payment shall
be in such amount as the supervisor of elections shall require, and this amount
shall be submitted by the Town Clerk, together with the petitions.
   (f)   If the petition meets the requirements of divisions (b) through
(e),the Town Commission shall call an election referendum of the town electors
to approve or disapprove the proposed code or Charter amendment. Prior to
setting the date of the referendum, notice shall be afforded to the supervisor
of elections of the proposed referendum. Pursuant to § 100.151, Florida
Statutes, the supervisor of elections' consent shall be obtained as to a date
when the registration books can be available. This consent shall be obtained
prior to setting the actual date of the referendum. Said referendum election
shall be paid for by the town, and at the option of the Town Commission, the
referendum may be conducted by mail ballot, or machine ballot at a polling
place, all as permitted by Florida law.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-02)
§§ 13-8. – 13-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 14: TAXATION
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
14-1   Assessment and collection of ad valorem taxes
   
14-2   Enactment adopted, authority
   
14-3   Definitions
   
14-4   Eligibility
   
14-5   Annual application
   
14-6   Waiver
   
14-7   Commencement
   
14-8   Annual adjustment
   
14-9   Delivery to property appraiser
   14-10 – 14-14   Reserved
Article II. Excise Tax; Insurance Companies
   
14-15   Assessment; amount
   
14-16   Multiple peril policies
   
14-17   When payment due
   14-18 – 14-25   Reserved
Article III. Public Service Tax
   
14-26   Title; authority for regulation
   
14-27   Definitions
   
14-28   Public service tax on electricity, metered natural gas, metered or
bottled liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, and water
service
   
14-29   Taxable telecommunication services; tax levied (Repealed)
   
14-30   Liability for failure to collect
   
14-31   Keeping of records
   
14-32   Exemption from tax
   
14-33   Late return of tax payments by seller; interest; penalties
Statutory reference:
   For state provisions regarding excise taxes on insurance companies, see F.S.
§§ 175.101 and 185.08.
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 14-1. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF AD VALOREM TAXES BY COUNTY.
   The County Property Appraiser and Tax Collector shall be responsible for the
assessment and collection of ad valorem taxes within the town.
('75 Code, § 21-1)
Statutory reference:
   For state provisions concerning ad valorem taxes, see F.S. § 193.116.
§ 14-2. ENACTMENT ADOPTED; AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Sections
14-2 through
14-9 shall be known as the "homestead exemption for economically disadvantaged
senior citizens code," and any reference in said sections to the "code" shall
be interpreted as applying to the aforesaid "homestead exemption for
economically disadvantaged senior citizens code."
   (b)   Authority for adoption of this enactment is pursuant to the authority
granted the town in accordance with Section 6(f), Article VII of the Florida
Constitution of 1968, and § 196.075, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-3. DEFINITIONS.
   The terms "household" and "household income" shall have those meanings as
set forth in § 196.075, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-4. ELIGIBILITY.
   Any person 65 years or over who has legal or equitable title to real estate
located within the town and maintains thereon a permanent residence which
residence qualifies for and received homestead exemption pursuant to Section 6
(a), Article VII of the Florida Constitution of 1968, and whose annual
household income does not exceed $20,000, as adjusted, shall be entitled to
make application for an additional homestead exemption as provided herein. This
additional homestead exemption, if granted, shall apply only to property taxes
levied by the town, exclusive of voter approved ad valorem taxes. The homestead
exemption authorized by this code shall be for an amount not to exceed $25,000
per tax year.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-5. ANNUAL APPLICATION.
   (a)   Every person claiming the additional homestead exemption pursuant to
this code must file an application therefore with the county property appraiser
not later than March 1 of each year for which such exemption is claimed. Such
application shall include a sworn statement of household income for all members
of the household and shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Florida
Department of Revenue.
   (b)   On or before June 1 of each such year every applicant must file
supporting documentation with the property appraiser as required by the
Department of Revenue and/or the property appraiser. Said documentation shall
include copies of all federal income returns, wage and earning statements, and
such other documentation as required by the property appraiser, including
documentation necessary to verify the income received by all of the members of
the household for the prior year.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-6. WAIVER.
   Failure to file the application and sworn statement required by §
14-5 by March 1 or failure to file required supporting documentation by June 1
of any given year shall constitute a waiver of the additional exemption
privilege provided by this code for that year.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14 -7. COMMENCEMENT.
   This additional exemption shall be available commencing with the year 2003
tax roll, and the property appraiser may begin accepting applications and sworn
statements for the year 2003 commencing January 2, 2003.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-8. ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT.
   Commencing January 1, 2003, and each January 1 thereafter, the $20,000
annual income limitation provided for in this code shall be adjusted annually
and applicable as of January 1 of that year. The annual income limitation shall
be adjusted by the percentage of change in the average-cost-of-living index for
the immediately preceding calendar year compared with the average of the
monthly consumer-price index figures for the stated period, relative to the
United States as a whole, issued by the United States Department of Labor.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 4-17-02)
§ 14-9. DELIVERY TO PROPERTY APPRAISER.
   The Town Clerk shall provide a copy of this code to the county property
appraiser prior to December 1, 2002.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 3-20-02)
§§ 14-10. – 14-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. EXCISE TAX; INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 14-15. ASSESSMENT; AMOUNT.
   There is hereby assessed, imposed and levied on every insurance company,
corporation, or other insurer now engaging in or carrying on, or which shall
hereafter engage in or carry on the business of casualty insurance, as shown by
the records of the Insurance Commissioner of the state, an excise or license
tax in addition to any license tax or excise tax now levied by the town, which
said tax shall be in the amount of .85% of the gross amount of receipts of
premiums from policyholders on all premiums collected on casualty insurance
policies covering property within the corporate limits of the town.
('75 Code, § 21-2(a)) (Ord. 75-6, passed 9-9-75)
§ 14-16. MULTIPLE PERIL POLICIES.
   In the case of multiple peril policies with a single premium for both
property and casualty coverage in such policies, 30% of such premium shall be
used as the basis for the .85% tax herein imposed and assessed.
('75 Code, § 21-2(b)) (Ord.75-6, passed 9-9-75)
§ 14-17. WHEN PAYMENT DUE.
   The license or excise tax herein levied shall be due and payable annually on
March 1 of each year hereafter.
('75 Code, § 21-2(c)) (Ord. 75-6, passed 9-9-75)
§§ 14-18. – 14-25. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PUBLIC SERVICE TAX
§ 14-26. TITLE; AUTHORITY FOR REGULATION.
   (a)   Title. This article may be cited as the "Melbourne Beach Utility Tax
Code."
   (b)   Authority for regulation. This chapter is enacted under the home rules
powers of the town to promote the public health, safety, welfare, and economic
order of the community, by providing for a public service tax, also commonly
known as a utility tax. Said tax is adopted pursuant to authority set forth in
Article VII, § 1(a) and § 9(a), Florida Constitution of 1968 (no tax shall be
levied by a municipality, except as may be permitted by general law); Sections
166.231, 166.232, 166.233 and 166.234, Florida Statutes, (general law providing
for the levy of a public service tax); Article VIII, § 2, Florida Constitution
of 1968 (municipal home rule); and Section 166.021, Florida Statutes,
(implementation of municipal home rule), inter alia, all as the same may be
amended from time to time)
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98)
§ 14-27. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FUEL ADJUSTMENT CHARGE. All increases in the cost of utility services to the
ultimate customer resulting from an increase in the cost of fuel to the utility
subject to October 1, 1973. (Legislative Authority: Section 166.231(1)(b),
Florida Statutes (2007)).
   PUBLIC SERVICE TAX. The tax authorized by Sections 166.231, 166.232,
166.233, and 166.234, Florida Statutes on the purchase of:
   1)   Electricity;
   2)   Metered natural gas;
   3)   Metered or bottled liquified petroleum gas;
   4)   Metered or bottled manufactured gas; and
   5)   Water service,
said purchases occurring within the municipal limits of the town. (Legislative
Authority: Section 166.231(1)(a), Florida Statutes (2007))
   PURCHASE. Every act or transaction whereby possession of, utilization of, or
control over electricity, metered natural gas, metered or bottled liquified
petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, or water service, which are
subject to a public service tax, becomes vested in the purchaser within the
corporate limits of the town for which payment is made pursuant to a duty and
obligation thereof.
   PURCHASE OF ELECTRICITY. The purchase of electricity by the person who will
consume it within the town. (Legislative Authority: Section 166.231(1)(a),
Florida Statutes (2007))
   SELLER. Any person rendering electricity, metered natural gas, metered or
bottled liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, or water
service, which are subject to a public service tax, to a purchaser.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 99-04, passed 6-16-99; Am. Ord. 2008-05,
adopted 6-18-08)
§ 14-28. PUBLIC SERVICE TAX ON ELECTRICITY, METERED NATURAL GAS, METERED OR
BOTTLED LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS, METERED OR BOTTLED MANUFACTURED GAS, AND WATER
SERVICE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied by the town within the corporate limits of the
town on each sale of electricity, metered natural gas, metered or bottled
liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, and water
service, a public service tax on the charge made by the seller thereof, which
tax in every case shall be paid by the purchaser (for the use of the town) at
the time of paying the charge therefor. Said tax shall be computed on the basis
of 9.5% of the payments received by the seller from the purchaser for the
purchase of said service.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of every seller of electricity, metered natural
gas, metered or bottled liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled
manufactured gas, or water service, to collect from the purchaser for the use
of the town, the tax levied by this article at the time of collecting the
selling price for each transaction. All such taxes levied and collected during
the preceding month shall be reported and paid over on or before the 15th day
of each calendar month to the Town Manager. (Legislative Authority: Section
166.231(7), Florida Statutes (2007))
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any seller to collect the price of any
purchase of electricity, metered natural gas, metered or bottled liquified
petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, or water service, without
at the same time, collecting the tax levied by this article in respect to such
purchase(s) unless such seller shall elect to assume and pay such tax without
collecting such tax from the purchaser. (Legislative Authority: Section166.231
(7), Florida Statutes (2007))
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 2008-05, adopted 6-18-08)
§ 14-29. TAXABLE TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES; TAX LEVIED. (REPEALED).
(Legislative Authority: Ch. 2000-260, §§ 36, 38, 39 and 58, Laws of Fla.)
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 99-04, passed 6-16-99; Am. Ord. 2008-05,
adopted 6-18-08)
§ 14-30. LIABILITY FOR FAILURE TO COLLECT.
   Any seller failing to collect the public service tax levied pursuant to this
article at the time of collecting the price of any purchase where the seller
has not elected to assume and pay such tax shall be liable to the town for the
amount of such tax in like manner as if the tax has been actually paid to the
seller. The Town Manager shall cause to be brought all suits and actions and to
take all proceedings in the name of the town as may be necessary for the
recovery of said tax. The seller, however, shall not be liable for the payment
of such tax upon uncollected charges.
(Legislative Authority: Section 166.231(7), Florida Statutes)
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98)
§ 14-31. KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   (a)   Every seller of electricity, metered natural gas, metered or bottled
liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas, or water service,
shall keep complete records showing all purchases within the town of such
commodities or services, which records shall show the price charged upon each
purchase and the date thereof, all as set forth by Section 166.234, Florida
Statutes. The records shall be kept for inspection by the duly authorized
agents of the town during the seller's normal business hours at the official
location of the seller's books and records. The duly authorized agents of the
town shall have the right, power, and authority to make such transcripts
thereof during such times as they may desire. Records shall be retained by the
seller for the statutorily required period. (Legislative Authority: Section
166.234, Florida Statutes (2007))
   (b)   Each meter or measured service of electricity, metered natural gas,
metered or bottled liquified petroleum gas, metered or bottled manufactured gas
or telephone call shall constitute a separate purchase.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 2008-05, adopted 6-18-08)
§ 14-32. EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   (a)   General. The United States of America, the State of Florida, and all
counties, school districts, and municipalities of the state, public bodies
exempted by law or court order, political subdivisions and agencies, boards,
commissions and authorities thereof, and any recognized church in this state
for use exclusively for church purposes, are hereby exempted from payment of
the tax levied by this article. A recognized church that claims one of the
foregoing exemptions to be entitled to the same must certify to the seller that
it qualifies for the exemption, which certification may encompass all purchases
after a specified date or other multiple purchases. A seller accepting the
certification required by this subsection is relieved of the obligation to
collect and remit tax, and a seller is not required to collect tax from such an
exempt governmental body. A recognized church that claims an exemption as set
forth in this subsection shall certify to the seller that said purchaser
qualifies for the exemption, which exemption may encompass all purchases after
a specified date or other multiple purchases. Copies of said certifications and
consumer certifications of exemption shall be maintained by the seller and made
available upon request to the town. (Legislative Authority: Section 166.231(5)
and (9), Florida Statutes (2007))
   (b)   Fuel adjustment charge. The public service tax shall not be levied
against any fuel adjustment charge applicable to the purchase of electricity,
metered natural gas, metered or bottled liquified petroleum gas, metered or
bottled manufactured gas, or water service; provided, that such charge shall be
separately stated on each bill issued by a seller to a purchaser.
(Legislative Authority: Section 166.231(1)(b), Florida Statutes (2007))
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 2008-05, adopted 6-18-08)
§ 14-33. LATE RETURN OF TAX PAYMENTS BY SELLER; INTEREST; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Subject to the time limitations and requirements of Section 166.234,
Florida Statutes, Interest and penalties may be charged by the town to the
seller upon any late payment of tax revenues or filing of a required return. No
interest or penalty shall be passed through or passed along to consumer
purchasers.
   (b)   No penalty shall be assessed against a seller, unless the Town Manager
determines the existence of willful neglect, willful negligence, or fraud. Said
determination may be appealed to the Town Commission, if said appeal is filed
within 30 days of the date of the Town Manager's determination. Penalties may
be assessed at a rate of 5% per month of the delinquent tax, not to exceed a
total penalty of 25%, except that in no event shall the penalty for failure to
file a return be less than $15. In the case of a fraudulent return or a willful
intent to evade payment of the tax, the seller making such fraudulent return or
willfully attempting to evade payment of the tax, shall be liable for a
specific penalty of 100% of the tax.
   (c)   Interest may be charged at a rate of 1% per month of the delinquent
tax from the date that the tax was due until paid.
   (d)   Interest and penalties shall be computed on the net tax due after
application of any overpayments, and shall be subject to compromise as provided
by law.
(Legislative Authority: Section 166.234(4), (5), (7), and (8), Florida Statutes
(2007))
(Ord. 98-02, passed 3-16-98; Am. Ord. 2008-05, adopted 6-18-08)
CHAPTER 15: TOWN BUDGET
Section
Article I. Town Budget
   
15-1   Fiscal year
   
15-2   Preparation and submission
   
15-3   Budget a public record
   
15-4   Contents of recommended budget
   
15-5   Public hearing on the budget
   
15-6   Budget amendments authorized
   
15-7   Reserved
   
15-8   Limitation on appropriation
   
15-9   Fees belong to town
   
15-10   Capital outlay defined
   15-11 – 15-19   Reserved
Article II. Purchasing
   
15-20   Short title
   
15-21   Definitions
   
15-22   Town purchasing agent
   
15-23   Requisitions and estimates
   
15-24   Purchase orders
   
15-25   Certification of funds
   
15-26   Prohibition of interest
   
15-27   Formal competitive bidding procedures
   
15-28   Open market procedure
   
15-29   Emergency purchases
   
15-30   Inspection
   
15-31   Procurement of professional services
   
15-32   Surplus stock
   
15-33   Cooperative purchasing
   
15-34   Appeals and remedies
   15-35 - 15-89   Reserved
Article III. Library Trust Fund
   
15-90   Definitions; contributions; intent
   
15-91   Administration
   
15-92   Finances and fund management
   
15-93   Repeal or termination of system
Article I. Town Budget
§ 15-1. FISCAL YEAR.
   As used in this chapter, the term “budget year” shall mean the fiscal year
for which any particular budget is adopted and in which it is administered.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-2. PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION.
   The Town Manager, at least 60 days prior to the beginning of each budget
year, shall submit to the Town Commission a recommended budget and an
explanatory budget message in the form and with the contents provided for in
this chapter. For such purpose, at such date as the Manager shall determine,
the Town Manager or his designee, shall obtain from the head of each office,
department or agency, estimates of revenue and expenditures of that office,
department or agency, detailed by organization unit and character and object of
expenditure and such other supporting data as the Manager may request; together
with an estimate of all capital projects which such department head believes
should be undertaken. In preparing the budget, the Town Manager shall review
the estimates and may revise the estimates as he may deem advisable.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-3. BUDGET A PUBLIC RECORD.
   The budget and budget message and all supporting schedules shall be a public
record in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be open to public inspection
by anyone. The Town Manager shall cause sufficient copies of the budget and
budget message to be prepared for distribution to interested persons at the
actual cost of reproduction or at a cost consistent with the requirements of
Florida law, whichever cost shall be lower.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-4. CONTENTS OF RECOMMENDED BUDGET.
   (a)   The recommended budget shall be itemized in such form as shall be
provided by law and at a minimum by the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   Budget summary. At the head of the recommended budget there shall
appear a summary of all anticipated revenues by principal sources, stating
separately the amount to be raised by property tax for each separate operating
fund comprising the budget; the proposed expenditures for all funds by office,
department or agency showing estimated personnel costs, operating expenses and
capital costs; and an accounting of all other financial resources or funds
whether or not such funds are subject to or proposed for appropriation within
the budget.
   (c)   Anticipated revenues; comparison with other years. Principal revenues
shall be listed by source. In parallel columns opposite the several revenue
sources, there shall be placed the amount of each revenue source, there shall
be placed the amount of each revenue in the approved budget of the previous
fiscal year, the amount of revenue by source actually received during such
year, to the time of preparing the budget plus the estimated revenues
anticipated for the remainder of the fiscal year, and the amount of revenue
received in the last completed fiscal year as determined by an independent
certified public accountant in an accepted financial statement. There shall be
an explanation of the sources of revenues, assumptions underlying the revenue
estimates and identification of key revenue trends.
   (d)   Proposed expenditures; comparison with other years. Recommended
proposed expenditures shall be listed by object of expenditure according to the
State of Florida Uniform Accounting System for each department or agency for
each separate fund. Proposed expenditures shall further be itemized by grouping
all expenditures as to whether expenditures are associated with proposed
operating expenses, or capital costs, for each department. In parallel columns
opposite the several items of proposed expenditures, there shall be placed the
amount of each line item in the approved budget of previous fiscal year, the
amount of each line item actually expended during such year to the time of
preparing the budget plus estimated expenditure for the remainder of the fiscal
year, and the expenditures for the last completed fiscal year as determined by
an independent certified public accountant in an accepted financial statement.
   (e)   Revenues and expenditures explained. There shall be an explanation of
the: sources of revenues; significant changes in proposed expenditures from the
previous fiscal year; and assumptions underlying revenue estimates and
identification of key revenue or expenditure trends. Such information shall be
supported by appropriate charts and graphs as necessary to present to the
taxpayer a clear understanding of the recommended budget. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal the total of proposed expenditures.
   (f)   Capital improvement program. Along with the proposed budget, the Town
Manager shall prepare a plan describing all recommended capital projects to be
undertaken within the budget year and within the following four next succeeding
years. Such capital improvement program shall list each capital project of
$10,000 or more and a useful life of five years or more, indicating proposed or
alternative funding sources. The capital improvement plan shall anticipate
future capital needs and shall reflect recommended improvements identified in
the adopted Comprehensive Plan. Adoption of the capital improvement plan,
except for the first fiscal year, shall not be construed to obligate the Town
to make such future improvements, but shall serve as a planning tool to
anticipate future capital improvement needs.
   (g)   Budget message required. The Town Manager shall submit, as an integral
part of the budget, a budget message. The budget message shall be explanatory
of the budget, shall contain an outline of the proposed financial policies of
the Town, and shall describe in connection therewith, the important features of
the proposed budget. It shall set forth the reasons for salient changes from
the previous year in cost and revenue items and shall explain any major changes
in financial policy. The budget message shall include: information on the work
force organization; departmental functions and financial structure of the Town
government; general levels of services to include anticipated service
shortfalls; the future economic or financial outlook of the Town; and
recommended strategies or budgetary policies, including the impact of policy
changes or operations, service levels and/or finances; and an explanation of
any conditions or projected events that require changes in operations in order
to ensure financial stability or solvency.
   (h)   Supporting schedules. Attached to the budget message shall be such
supporting schedules, exhibits and other explanatory materials, regarding
current operations and future needs or capital improvements, as the Town
Manager shall believe to be useful to the Town Commission and the public.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-5. PUBLIC HEARING ON THE BUDGET.
   (a)   The Town Commission shall hold public hearings on the proposed budget
as provided by the Town Charter and Florida Law and shall approve the budget by
adoption of a resolution. Such resolution shall set forth total anticipated
revenues by major source and proposed expenditures by department and fund. At
any budget hearing required by Florida law to be advertised, the first
substantive issue discussed shall be the percentage increase in millage over
the rolled-back rate necessary to fund the budget, if any, and the specific
purposes for which ad valorem tax revenues are being increased. During such
discussion, the Commission shall hear comments regarding the proposed increase,
if any, and explain the reasons for the proposed increase over the rolled-back
rate.
   (b)   Once the resolution is adopted, no officer, department, or agency
shall during any budget year, expend or contract to expend money or incur any
liability, or enter into any contract which by its terms involves the
expenditure of money, for any purpose, in excess of the total amounts
appropriated for any department or agency. Any contract, verbal or written,
made in violation of this chapter shall be null and void. Nothing contained in
this section, however, shall prevent the making of contracts or the spending of
money for capital improvements to be financed in whole or in part by the
issuance of bonds, nor the making of contracts of lease or for services for a
period exceeding the budget year in which such contract is made, when such
contract is permitted by law.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-6. BUDGET AMENDMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   At any time in any budget year, the Town Commission may amend the adopted
budget or transfer any funds budgeted for expenditure, or portion thereof, from
one established fund to another established fund or between departments by
approval of a resolution providing for same. Such resolution shall detail the
budget changes proposed and shall set forth amounts
and reasons for such changes. The provisions of this section shall apply when
changes are proposed to the total amounts appropriated for any established fund
or department budget. This section shall not apply to any transfer of any funds
from one budgeted expenditure line item to another budgeted expenditure line
item within any single department.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 2020-01, adopted 2-19-20)
§ 15-7. RESERVED.
§ 15-8. LIMITATION ON APPROPRIATION.
   At the close of each fiscal year, the unencumbered balance of each
appropriation shall revert to the respective fund from which it was
appropriated and shall be subject to future appropriation unless otherwise
determined by the Town Commission.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-9. FEES TO BELONG TO TOWN.
   All fees, revenues, or other funds received by any Town officer or employee
on behalf of the Town government shall belong to the Town government and shall
be paid daily to the department of finance.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§ 15-10. CAPITAL OUTLAY DEFINED.
   Capital outlay shall include capital purchases for the acquisition of, or
additions to, fixed assets with a unit value of $500 or greater.
(Ord. 92-08, passed 11-18-92)
§§ 15-11. – 15-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PURCHASING
§ 15-20. SHORT TITLE.
   The provisions of this article shall be known and cited as the “Purchasing
Ordinance of the Town of Melbourne Beach.”
(Ord. 92-09, passed 16-16-92)
§ 15-21. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDDER'S LIST. The list of vendors, suppliers or contractors for an
individual service, supply, commodity or trade compiled through the contracting
experience of the Town or at the request of the vendors, suppliers or
contractors.
   BID SPECIFICATIONS. The basis upon which the Town will rely to determine
acceptability of a bid or proposal, as stated in the bid, the proposal, or this
article, including, but not limited to, inspection, testing, quality,
workmanship, delivery, price, and suitability for a particular purpose. Those
criteria that will affect the bid price and be considered in evaluation for
award shall be objectively measurable, such as discounts, transportation costs,
and total or life cycle costs.
   FIELD PURCHASES. The procurement of supplies or services needed immediately
to support daily departmental operations.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Includes any service performed by a professional. A
professional is one performing any vocation requiring a four-year college
degree as a prerequisite to licensing by the State of Florida. The four-year
degree is not required to be in the field of study specifically related to the
vocation in question. A professional service includes, but is not limited to,
services performed by a certified public accountant including but not limited
to auditing services, artistic services, an attorney or related legal services
including but not limited to court reporting, expert witness consultation and
advice and title search or underwriting activities, bond underwriting,
financial advice or consultation, health related or insurance programs,
lectures and professional training, or a doctor. The positions of Town Manager,
financial advisor or consultant, bond underwriter, professional engineer,
architect, landscape architect, registeredsurveyor and mapper, and attorney are
included within this definition.
   SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, public works and public
construction projects, all telephone, gas, water, electric light and power
service, towel and cleaning service, insurance, leases for all equipment,
grounds and/or buildings, rental, repair or maintenance of equipment, machinery
and other Town owned personal property. Professional services are not included
within this definition.
   SUPPLIES. Includes all supplies, materials and equipment.
   USING AGENCY. Any department, agency, commission, bureau or other unit in
the Town government using supplies or procuring services as provided for in
this article.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03)
§ 15-22. TOWN PURCHASING AGENT.
   (a)   Scope of purchasing authority. The Town Manager, or the Town Manager's
designee, shall act as purchasing agent for the Town.
      (1)   Purchase or contract. The Town Manager shall have the power and it
shall be the Town Manager's duty to purchase or contract for all supplies,
professional services, and services needed by any using agency of the Town, in
accordance with purchasing procedures as prescribed by this article, such rules
and regulations as may be adopted for the internal management and operation of
the purchasing function, and such rules and regulations as shall be prescribed
by the Town Manager or the Town Commission.
      (2)   Unauthorized purchases. Except as herein provided, no Town officer
or employee shall order the purchase of any supplies or services or make any
contract within the purview of this article other than through the Town Manager
or the Town Manager's designee, unless otherwise approved by the Town
Commission. Any purchase ordered or contract made contrary to the provisions
hereof shall not be considered approved by the Town.
      (3)   The Town Manager is authorized to purchase budgeted supplies,
services, or professional services when the purchase amount does not exceed
$5,000. The Town Manager may negotiate, enter into, and execute appropriate
purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of said supplies, services, or
professional services not exceeding $5,000 without Town Commission approval.
Additional expenditures exceeding the $5,000 threshold must be approved by the
Town Commission.
      (4)   The Town Manager is authorized to negotiate the purchase of
supplies, services, or professional services for amounts in excess of $5,000;
provided that no purchase order shall be issued or contract executed committing
the Town to said purchase. A purchase order may be issued, or contract
executed, by the Town Manager, at such time as: (i) sufficient funds have been
appropriated by the Town Commission or funds exist in the budget category from
which funds to pay for said supplies, services, or professional services would
come from; and (ii) if a standard Town purchase order is to be used, the actual
purchase has been approved by the Town Commission, or if other than a standard
Town purchase order is to be used, the actual contract for the purchase of
services, supplies, or professional services has been approved by the Town
Commission. Purchase orders, contracts, and approvals for appropriation,
involving purchase of supplies, services, or professional services in an amount
of less than $25,000 may be routinely approved by placement on the Town
Commission's consent agenda.
      (5)   Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided solely to avoid the requirements of this section.
   (b)   Other powers and duties. In addition to the purchasing authority
conferred in division (a) of this section and in addition to any other powers
and duties conferred by this article, the Town Manager, and said the Town
Manager's designee, shall be required to adhere to the following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum expenditures. Act to procure for the Town the highest
quality in supplies and contractual services at the lowest effective cost to
the Town.
      (2)   Encourage competition. Endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on all purchases of supplies and services.
      (3)   Rules and regulations. Establish, enforce, and amend, when
necessary, all rules and regulations authorized by this article and any others
necessary to its operation.
      (4)   Purchasing analysis. Keep informed of current developments in the
field of purchasing, prices, market conditions, and new products and secure for
theTown the benefits of research done in the field of purchasing by other
governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies, trade associations
having national recognition, and by private businesses and organizations.
      (5)   Forms. Prescribe and maintain such forms as the Town Manager shall
find reasonably necessary to the operation of this article.
      (6)   Standard nomenclature. Prepare and adopt a standard purchasing
nomenclature for using agencies and supplies.
      (7)   Vendors' catalog file. Prepare, adopt and maintain a vendors'
catalog file. Said catalog file shall be filed according to types of supplies
and services and shall contain descriptions of vendors, commodities, prices and
discounts as well as other pertinent information.
      (8)   Bulk purchases. Exploit buying in bulk so as to take full advantage
of discounts.
      (9)   Tax exemptions. Act so as to procure for the Town all federal and
state tax exemptions to which it is entitled.
      (10)   Cooperation with the department of finance. Cooperate with the
department of finance and using agencies to secure for the Town the maximum
efficiency in budgeting and accounting.
      (11)   Bidder and contractor performance history. Maintain a performance
history of bidders and contractors to assist in determining whether a bidder
for a contract or purchase order is responsible to perform said contract or
purchase order.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 2022-
02, adopted 8-17-22)
§ 15-23. REQUISITIONS AND ESTIMATES.
   All using agencies, either by or with the authorization of the head of the
department under which the using agency operates, shall file with the finance
department detailed requisitions of estimates of their requirements in supplies
and services in such manner, at such times, and for such future periods as the
Town Manager, or the Town Manager's designee, shall prescribe.
      (1)   Unforeseen requirements. A using agency may file at any time, a
requisition or estimate for supplies and services, the need for which was not
foreseen when the detailed estimates were filed.
      (2)   Power to revise. The Town Manager, or the Town Manager's designee,
shall examine each requisition or estimate and shall have the authority to
revise it as to quantity, quality, or estimated cost.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-24. PURCHASE ORDERS.
   Unless otherwise authorized by resolution of the Town Commission, all
purchases in excess of $5,000 shall be made by purchase order issued by the
Finance Clerk. A purchase order system shall be established by the Town
Manager. All using agencies and vendors shall be made aware of this system and
adhere thereto.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2006-03, adopted 4-19-06; Am. Ord. 2022-
02, adopted 8-17-22)
§ 15-25. CERTIFICATION OF FUNDS.
   Except in cases of emergency, no order for delivery on a contract or open
market purchase shall be made until the finance department shall have
certified, after preaudit, that there is to the credit of the using agencies
concerned a sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance, in excess of all
unpaid obligations, to defray the amount of such order.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-26. PROHIBITION OF INTEREST.
   No purchase of supplies or services shall be made from any person whose sale
of such supplies or service would result in that person's violation of Section
112.313, Florida Statutes, or any successor statute regulating ethics of public
officials and employees.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-27. FORMAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Minimum threshold for competitive bidding.
      (1)   All supplies and services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $5,000, shall be purchased by
formal, written contract and/or purchase order from the lowest responsible
bidder, after due notice inviting bids under the procedures described below.
All sales of public property (except trade-in public property) which has become
obsolete and unusable, when the estimated value shall exceed $5,000, shall be
accomplished by formal contract to the highest responsible bidder, after legal
notice inviting proposals has been published as required by law. All bid
solicitations shall be based upon bid specifications as prepared by the town
prior to the solicitation of bids for a supply or service.
      (2)   Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided solely to avoid the requirements of this section
   (b)   Notice inviting bids.
      (1)   Newspaper. Notice inviting bids shall be published once in one
official newspaper of general circulation, as defined by Sections 50.011 and
50.031, Florida Statutes, and at least five working days preceding the last day
set for the receipt of bids. The newspaper notice required hereby shall include
a general description of the items to be purchased or sold, shall state where
bid blanks and bid specifications may be secured, and the time and place for
opening bids.
      (2)   Bidder's list. Sealed bids shall also be solicited from at least
five responsible prospective suppliers as determined from professional
journals, industry directories, and similar publications and those who have
requested their names to be added to a bidder's list which the Town shall
maintain, by sending them a copy of such newspaper notice or such other notice
as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or sale. This requirement
shall be waived to the extent that the Town Manager, or said Town Manager's
designee, is unable after good faith inquiry to ascertain that there are five
responsible suppliers for a service or supplies. In any case, invitations sent
to the vendors on the bidder's list shall be limited to supplies or services
that are similar in character and ordinarily handled by the trade group to
which the invitations are sent.
      (3)   Bulletin board. All pending bid purchases or sales shall also be
advertised by notice on the public bulletin board at Town Hall.
   (c)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Town Manager, or the Town
Manager's designee, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices
inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of surety where
the Town Manager has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any
surety required by the Town Manager upon failure on his part to enter a
contract with the Town within ten days after the award.
   (d)   Bid opening procedures.
      (1)   Sealed. Sealed bids shall be submitted to the Town Clerk and shall
be identified as bids on the outside of the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened by the Town Manager or the Town
Manager's designee in public at the time and place stated in the public notices
and shall be witnessed and recorded by appropriate written record.
      (3)   Tabulations. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made and
shall be available for public inspection.
   (e)   Rejection of bids. The Town Manager shall have the authority to reject
all bids when the purchase amount is $4,000 or less, or when the public
interest will be served thereby. The Town Commission may reject all bids when
the public interest will be served thereby. The Town Commission shall not
accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on payment of taxes, licenses
or other monies, due the Town.
   (f)   Award of contract. When a purchase is bid, all contracts, when the sum
is $5,000 or less, may be awarded by the Town Manager to the lowest responsible
bidder. When the amount of a contract is in excess of $5,000, the Town
Commission may award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder, or may
delegate to the Town Manager the power to award said contract to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition
to price, the bid and the bidder shall meet the following requirements, unless
otherwise waived by the Town:
      (1)   The bidder has the ability, capacity and skill to perform the
contract.
      (2)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the bidder's supplies
or services to the particular use required comply with commercially acceptable
standards in effect in east central Florida and comply with the bid
specifications.
      (3)   That the bidder has the ability to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract.
      (4)   That the bidder has a sufficiency of the financial resources and
ability to perform the contract.
      (5)   That the bidder can perform the contract within the time specified
in the bid specifications, without delay or interference.
      (6)   That the person or other entity submitting the bid is a responsible
bidder meaning that the bidder has the capability in all respects to perform
fully the contract requirements and the integrity and reliability which will
assure good faith performance.
      (7)   That the bidder has satisfactorily performed substantially similar
contracts, as to type of supply or service or as to amount of supply or
service, with the Town or other governmental entities in the past and is not at
the time of submission or award of the bid or time of contracting for the
provision of the bid service or supply to the Town otherwise debarred or
limited from submitting bids to the Federal or state government.
      (8)   That the bidder has complied with laws and ordinances relating to
the contract.
      (9)   That the bid is responsive in that the bid submitted conforms in
all material respects to the invitation for bids and bid specifications.
   (g)   Award to other than lowest bidder. When the award is recommended not
to be given to the lowest bidder for purchase of $5,000 or less, a full and
complete statement of the reasons for placing the order elsewhere shall be
prepared for or by the Town Manager and approved by the Town Manager prior to
the award of contract.
   (h)   Equal bids.
      (1)   Local vendors. If low bids received are for the same total amount
or unit price, quality and service being equal, the preference shall be given
in order to vendors whose principal place of business is in the Town first and
in Brevard County second. In the purchase of, or contract for, supplies and
services, the town may give a preference in an amount not to exceed three
percent of the bid price go local persons, firms, or corporations; provided
however, that:
         (A)   The local person, firm or corporation first agrees to match the
low bid of the lowest responsible non-local bidder; and
         (B)   This section in no way prohibits the right of the Town
Commission to compare qualifications, character, responsibility and fitness of
all persons, firms, or corporations submitting bids. For the purpose of this
provision, the term “local persons, firms, or corporations” shall be defined as
those whose principal place of business is located within the municipal
boundaries of the Town or of Brevard County. Nothing contained herein shall
authorize the Town to specify a single source of supplies or services.
      (2)   Outside vendors; tie bids. If low bids received are for the same
total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and there is no
local bidder, the bid award shall be given to the bid certifying a drug-free
workplace has been implemented as provided in Section 287.087, Florida
Statutes. If two or more, or none, of the equal responses from other than local
bidders are received certifying that a drug-free workplace has been
implemented, the Town Manger shall award the contract to one of the bidders by
drawing lots in public.
   (i)   Performance or payment bonds. The Town Manager or Town Commission
shall have the authority to require a performance or payment bond, before
entering a contract, in such amount as shall reasonably be necessary to protect
the best interests of the Town; provided that said requirement of a performance
or payment bond shall have been included in the bid specifications.
   (j)   Special purchases.
      (1)   The Town Manager may determine to make any purchases in excess of
$5,000 without formal bid to procure supplies and services which are the
subject of contracts with another governmental agency, if the price and
conditions of purchase for the Town are no less favorable than those obtainable
by said governmental agency. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the actual purchase
order or contract must be pre-approved by the Town Commission.
      (2)   The Town Commission may use contracts or bids from another
governmental entity, where such contracts or formal bids followed formal bid
procedures of sealed written bids, public openings, and legal advertisements,
at least as stringent as those contained in this article and such other
contracts or bids called for the same supplies or services in the same or
similar quantities under like conditions of purchase.
      (3)   The Town Commission shall have the authority to waive the formal
bidding procedures described in §
15-27 when due to a need for supplies or services there is insufficient time to
utilize the bidding, in the event of emergency circumstances, or when the Town
Manager, or the Town Commission, as the case may be determined that it is in
the best interest of the Town.
   (k)   Single source. Supplies or services available only from a single
source are excepted from the provisions of this article. However, if the
estimated purchase amount exceeds $5,000, the Town Commission must make a
specific finding at a Town meeting that only one source exists to provide the
supplies or services.
   (l)   Insufficient bids. If less than two responsive bids are received in
response to an invitation for bid, the Town Commission may authorize the Town
Manager to negotiate the purchase of the needed supplies or services on the
best terms available, and this provision shall be deemed to be an implicit part
of all Town bid specifications.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 2022-
2, adopted 8-17-22)
§ 15-28. OPEN MARKET PROCEDURES.
   (a)   All purchasing of supplies and contractual services of a total
estimated value of more than $150 and less than $4,000 and all sales of public
property which has become obsolete and unusable of less than the estimated
value of $4,000 may be made in the open market without newspaper advertisement
and without observing the sealed bid procedures prescribed in §
15-27 for formal purchasing or sale procedures.
   (b)   Minimum number of bids. All open market purchases or sales shall be
based on at least three competitive bids and may be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder in accordance with the standards set forth in §
15-27(e) or the highest responsible bidder in case of a sale unless otherwise
approved by the Town Manager.
   (c)   Invitation for bids. Either oral or written bids for open market
pricing or sale may be made, but all reasonably available current bidders' and
suppliers' lists shall be used. All oral bids in excess of $1,000 shall be
confirmed in writing.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03)
§ 15-29. EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (a)   By Town Manager. The Town Manager may approve expenditures in excess
of $4,000 in the case of an emergency that might affect the health, safety, and
welfare of the Town. Such action shall be reported to the Town Commission, in
writing not later than the first Town Commission meeting following such
expenditure, with a full explanation and justification for the expenditure.
   (b)   Petty cash revolving fund. There is hereby appropriated out of any
money in the Town treasury, not otherwise appropriated, $250, which shall be
known as the petty cash revolving fund. From this fund may be paid all local
purchases not in excess of $75 each, made by the heads of using agencies or
their duly authorized personnel, for incidentals. Operating procedure for the
petty cash revolving fund shall be promulgated by the Town Manager.
   (c)   Field purchases. Field purchases may be made upon approval of the
department heads for immediate need of supplies or services not to exceed the
maximum value of $200.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03)
§ 15-30. INSPECTION.
   The Town Manager, or the Town Manager's designee, shall inspect, or assure
the inspection of, all deliveries of supplies or services to determine their
conformance with the specifications set forth in the order or contract.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-31. PROCUREMENT OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (a)   For the procurement of professional architectural, engineering,
landscape architectural, or land surveying services, the Town shall adhere to
the requirements of the Consultant's Competitive Negotiation Act, Section
287.055, Florida Statutes.
   (b)   The purchase of professional services are not subject to the
competitive sealed bid requirements of this article.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92; Am. Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03)
§ 15-32. SURPLUS STOCK.
   (a)   All using agencies shall submit to the Town Manager at such times and
in such form as he shall prescribe, reports showing stocks of all supplies
which are no longer used or which have become obsolete, worn out or scrapped.
   (b)   Transfer. The Town Manager shall have the authority to transfer
surplus stock to other using agencies.
   (c)   Sale. The Town Manager shall have the authority to sell any supplies
which have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or
trade in the same on, new supplies. Sales under this section shall be made in
conformance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-33. COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The Town Manager, subject to approval by the Town Commission, shall have the
authority to join with the other units in government in cooperative purchasing
plans when the best interest of the Town would be served thereby.
(Ord. 92-09, passed 12-16-92)
§ 15-34. APPEALS AND REMEDIES.
   (a)   Right to protest. Any aggrieved person, who is aggrieved in connection
with a solicitation or award of a bid or contract or the purchase of a service
or supply by the Town regardless of whether by bid or otherwise, may protest to
the Town Commission by filing a notice of protest specifying with particularity
the rule, law, caselaw, or ordinance which the Town has failed to adhere to or
consider and how the Town has failed to adhere to or consider said rule, law,
caselaw or ordinance. The notice of protest must be filed in writing with the
Town Clerk within not more than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the Town
Commission meeting at which the Town Commission actually awards a contract or
purchase of a service or supply. An "aggrieved person" for the purposed of this
section includes an actual bidder, a prospective bidder, or some person or
legal entity having an interest greater in degree than other persons or legal
entities in the community or having been injured in a manner different than
other persons or legal entities in the community, by the purchase of supplies
or services. The appeal shall be scheduled for hearing by the Town Commission,
or alternatively, by a special master or panel appointed by the Town
Commission, with a final decision to be rendered by the Town Commission. Any
aggrieved person must file a protest and exhaust its administrative remedies
prior to commencing any action in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (b)   Remedy. The Town Manager is authorized to negotiate a settlement of
any protest regarding the solicitation or award of a Town contract or any claim
arising out of the performance of a Town contract, prior to final consideration
of the appeal by the Town Commission; provided, that any settlement shall be
approved by the Town Commission.
   (c)   Stay of procurement. In the event of a timely protest properly filed,
the Town Manager shall not proceed further with the solicitation or award of
the contract until all administrative remedies have been exhausted or until the
Town Commission, as appropriate, makes a determination on the record that the
award of a contract without delay is necessary to protect substantial interests
of the Town.
(Ord. 2003-01, adopted 6-25-03)
§§ 15-35. ­ 15-89. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. LIBRARY TRUST FUND
§ 15-90 DEFINITIONS; CONTRIBUTIONS; INTENT.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the fund.
   FUND. The Melbourne Beach Library Trust Fund, as created pursuant to this
article.
   SYSTEM. The trust administration and fund, as created pursuant to this
article.
   (b)   So long as the system provided for by this article is in effect, any
donation, gift, contribution, or bequest shall be deposited to the Melbourne
Beach Library Trust Fund by any person, natural or corporate, or by any legal
entity. Such deposit, at the discretion of the Board, may be accounted for
separately and kept on a segregated bookkeeping basis. Funds arising from the
foregoing sources may be used, as determined by the Board, for books;
technical, Internet, or computer services; public programs; or other public
services, all at the Melbourne Beach Public Library, which books; technical,
Internet, or computer services; public programs; or other public services,
which would not otherwise be provided for by funds raised from taxation or fees
by Brevard County.
   (c)   The legislative intent of this article is to create a trust fund for
the donation of funds by the general public to provide expanded library
programs, books, and services, and to provide for the funding of the purchase
of additional library programs, books, and services to benefit and be used
primarily at the Melbourne Beach Public Library. The Town Commission hereby
makes a legislative finding that donations to the fund for Brevard County's
Melbourne Beach Public Library for increased library programs, books, and
services is a valid and exclusively public purpose. The Town Commission notes
that pursuant to the Section 170(a), (b)(1)(v), and (c)(1) of U.S. Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, donations to a local government for an "exclusively
public purpose" are tax deductible to the extent provided by Federal law. It is
the intent of the Town Commission that donations, gifts, or bequests to the
fund shall be for an exclusively public purpose for the purpose of making such
donation, gift, or bequest tax deductible from U.S. income tax to the extent
provided by law.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 9-15-99)
§ 15-91. ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The sole and exclusive administrative responsibility for the proper
operation of the trust fund and for making effective the provisions of this
article are hereby vested in a Board of Trustees which shall be designated as
the administrator for the fund. The Board shall consist of the Town Commission.
The Mayor of Melbourne Beach shall serve as Chairman of the Board. The Vice-
Mayor shall serve as Vice-Chairman of the Board. The filling of vacancies and
the terms of office of the Board members shall be the same as for the Town
Commission.
   (b)   Each Trustee shall be entitled to one vote on the Board. Three
affirmative votes shall be necessary for a decision by the Trustees at any
meeting of the Board. Trustees shall not cast proxy votes and may attend
meetings in the same manner as Town Commissioners may attend meetings of the
Town Commission and vote. The rules of procedure for the Board of Trustees
shall be the same as for the Town Commission.
   (c)   The Board shall engage such accounting, legal, or other services, as
shall be required to transact the business of the fund. The compensation of all
persons engaged to transact services for the fund by the Board and all other
necessary expenses of the Board necessary for the operation of the Board may be
paid from the fund at such rates and in such amounts as the Board shall agree.
Funds may be distributed by a disbursing agent as determined by the Board, but
only upon the authorization of the Board.
   (d)   The duties and responsibilities of the Board shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Construe the provisions of this article and determine all questions
arising thereunder;
      (2)   Establish uniform rules and procedures to be followed for
administrative purposes, benefit applications, and all matters required to
administer the fund;
      (3)   Distribute to the general public at least annually all pertinent
financial information concerning the fund;
      (4)   Receive and process all applications or proposals for use of the
fund benefits;
      (5)   Accept, as determined to be appropriate in the sole discretion of
the Board, all donations, gifts, or bequests to the fund;
      (6)   Authorize all payments whatsoever from the fund, and to notify the
disbursing agent, in writing, of approved payments from the fund and other
expenditures arising through operation of the fund;
      (7)   Make payment of funds to Brevard County for the primary benefit of
the Melbourne Beach Public Library to purchase or provide additional books,
services, or programs, either as directed by the Board or at the discretion of
Brevard County, for the primary benefit of the Melbourne Beach Public Library,
or to provide additional books, services, or programs, for the benefit of the
Melbourne Beach Public Library;
      (8)   Assure that the expenditure of all funds is for the administration
of the fund or the obtaining of additional books, services, and programs
primarily at the Melbourne Beach Public Library, and assure that all
expenditures are for an exclusively public purpose;
      (9)   Invest monies deposited into the fund as permitted pursuant to
Chapter 218, Florida Statutes, as amended or superseded from time to time; and
      (10)   Perform such other duties and tasks as may be specified from time
to time in this article.
   (e)   The Board may select the town's auditor for the purposes of preparing
an audit of the fund, either separate from or as a part of the Town annual
independent audit. The Town Attorney shall serve as attorney to the trust fund.
The Town Clerk shall serve as the clerk of the fund. The Town Manager shall
serve as the chief executive officer of the fund.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 9-15-99)
§ 15-92. FINANCES AND FUND MANAGEMENT.
   (a)   Custody and supervision of the fund (and the assets thereof) shall be
vested in the Board of Trustees. Payments of benefits and disbursement from the
fund shall be made by the Town Manager, but only upon written authorization to
make a disbursement from the Board.
   (b)   Funds and securities of the fund may be commingled with other accounts
of the town or held separately; provided always, that accurate records are
maintained at all times reflecting the financial composition of the fund,
including accurate accounts and entries as regards the following:
      (1)   Individual, itemized disbursements of the fund, specifying the
specific purpose of the disbursement;
      (2)   Cash investments and realized and unrealized gains or losses;
      (3)   All interest, dividends and gains or losses attributable to
contributions and deposits to the fund;
      (4)   Such other entries as may be properly required so as to reflect a
clear and complete financial report of the fund.
   (c)   The Board shall have the following investment powers and authority:
      (1)   The Board shall be vested with full legal title to said fund,
subject however and in any event to the authority and power of the Town
Commission to amend or terminate this trust; provided, that no amendment or
termination shall ever result in the use of any of the assets of this fund,
except for the payment of administrative expenses and provision of benefits
under this system. All contributions from time to time paid into the fund, and
the income thereof, without distinction between principal and income, shall be
held and administered by the Board or its agent in the fund, and the Board
shall not be required to segregate or invest separately any portion of the
fund.
      (2)   The fund may be invested and reinvested in such securities or
property, real or personal, wherever situated and of whatever kind, as shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees, including but not limited to stocks, common
or preferred, and bonds, and other evidences of indebtedness or ownership. The
Board of Trustees is authorized to transfer from time to time to a common,
collective, or pooled trust fund maintained by any bank which meets the
requirements of Chapter 280, Florida Statutes, all or such part of the trust
fund hereunder as the Board may deem advisable, and such part or all of the
trust fund so transferred shall be subject to all of the terms and provisions
of such common, collective, or pooled trust fund which contemplates the
commingling for investment purposes of such trust fund assets with assets of
other trust. Pooled investments may not include foreign securities, and no
investment of any type may be made in foreign securities or otherwise, unless
specifically permitted by state law;
      (3)   The Board may retain in cash and keep unproductive of income such
amount of the fund as it may deem advisable, having regard for cash
requirements of the system;
      (4)   No person or entity stall be liable for the making, retention, or
sale of any investment or reinvestment made as herein provided, nor for any
loss or diminishment of the fund, except that due to his, her, or its own
negligence, willful misconduct or lack of good faith;
      (5)   The Board is empowered, but is not required, to vote upon any
stocks, bonds, or securities of any corporation, association or trust and to
give general or specific proxies or power of attorney with or without power of
substitutions; to participate in mergers, reorganizations, recapitalizations,
consolidations, and similar transactions with respect to such securities, to
deposit such stock; or other securities in any voting trust or any protective
or like committee with the Trustees or with depositories designated thereby; to
amortize or fail to amortize any part or all of the premium or discount
resulting from the acquisition or disposition of assets; and generally to
exercise any of the powers of any owner with respect to stocks, bonds, or other
investments comprising the fund which it may deem to be in the best interest of
the fund to exercise;
      (6)   The Board shall not be required to make any inventory or appraisal
or report to any court, nor to secure any order of court for the exercise of
any power herein contained;
      (7)   Where any action which the Board is required to take or any duty or
function which it is required to perform, either under the terms herein or
under the general law applicable to it as Trustee under the system, can
reasonably be taken or performed only after receipt by it from a member of the
system, the town or any other entity, of specific information, certification,
direction, or instruction, the Board shall be free of liability in failing to
take such action or perform such duty or function until such information,
certification, direction or instruction has been received by it; and
      (8)   In any application to or proceeding or action in the courts, only
the town and the Board shall be necessary parties, and no member or other
person having an interest in the fund shall be entitled to any notice or
service or process. Any judgment entered in such a proceeding or action shall
be conclusive upon all persons.
   (d)   Any of the foregoing powers and functions reposed in the Board may be
performed or carried out by the Board through duly authorized agents; provided
that the Board at all times maintains continuous supervision over the acts of
any such agent; provided further, that legal title to said fund shall always
remain in the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 9-15-99)
§ 15-93. REPEAL OR TERMINATION OF SYSTEM.
   (a)   This system and the fund, and subsequent ordinances pertaining to said
system and fund, may be modified, terminated or amended in whole or in part;
provided, that if these provisions or any subsequent ordinance shall be amended
or repealed in its application to any person or entity benefitting hereunder,
the amount of benefits which at the time of any such alteration, amendment, or
repeal shall have accrued to the entity or beneficiary who shall not be
affected thereby, except to the extent that the assets of the fund may be
determined to be inadequate.
   (b)   If these provisions shall be repealed and the system terminated, or if
contributions to the system are discontinued, the Board shall continue to
administer the system in accordance with these provisions, until all such funds
have been expended. When all funds have been paid out to the beneficiary and
all debts and liabilities satisfied, then and in such event shall the residuary
funds revert to the general fund of the town.
(Ord. 99-05, passed 9-15-99)
CHAPTER 16: CIVIL EMERGENCIES AND HURRICANES
Section
Article I. Civil Emergencies
   
16-1   Definitions
   
16-2   Persons authorized to declare emergency
   
16-3   Emergency powers and measures
   
16-4   Duration and termination of emergency
   
16-5   Sale of goods, services, or materials at unconscionable prices
   
16-6   Violations and penalties
   16-7 - 16-19   Reserved
ARTICLE I. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
§ 16-1. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law.
      (2)   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, hurricane, earthquake or explosion, within the
corporate limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town, except the
persons officially designated to perform duties with reference to the civil
emergency.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05)
§ 16-2. PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO DECLARE EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall have the right to declare a civil emergency by proclamation.
In the event the Mayor is absent or disabled and can not perform the duties of
mayor related hereto, the Vice-Mayor, or in the absence of the Vice-Mayor, the
Chief of Police, shall have the right to declare a civil emergency provided the
declaration is in writing.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05)
§ 16-3. EMERGENCY POWERS AND MEASURES.
   Whenever a civil emergency is declared pursuant to §
16-2, the written instrument of the Mayor, Vice- Mayor, or Chief of Police
shall set forth the nature of the civil emergency, any lawful measures deemed
necessary to preserve and protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and
the duration said measures shall remain in effect. Any measure promulgated
under this section shall have the force and effect of law. Such measures shall
only be effective during the state of civil emergency. Such measures may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Establish curfews, including, but not limited to, the prohibition of
or restrictions on pedestrian and vehicular movement, standing and parking,
except for the provisions of designated essential services, such as fire,
police, emergency medical services (including the transportation of patients
and emergency calls by physicians or other approved medical personnel), and
public works services (including utility emergency repairs).
   (b)   Utilize all available resources of the town government as reasonably
necessary to cope with the civil emergency, including emergency expenditures.
However, in the case of a declaration of civil emergency by the Mayor, Vice-
Mayor, or Chief of Police, such emergency expenditure shall not exceed
$50,000.00.
   (c)   Declare certain areas of the city off limits and closed to all
nonessential personnel.
   (d)   Make provisions for the availability and use of temporary emergency
housing and the emergency warehousing of materials.
   (e)   Establish an emergency operating center and employee shelter in
addition to or in place of those provided for in the Brevard County’s emergency
plan.
   (f)   Establish price controls pursuant to §
16-5.
   (g)   Confiscate merchandise, equipment, vehicles, or property needed to
alleviate the emergency. Reimbursement shall be within 60 days and at customary
value charged for the items during the 90 days previous to the emergency.
   (h)   In cooperation with Brevard County emergency management and on behalf
of the town, call on the National Guard or the Army, Coast Guard or other law
enforcement divisions as necessary to assist in the mitigation of the emergency
or to help maintain law and order, rescue and traffic control.
   (i)   Activate the statewide mutual-aid system.
   (j)   Prohibit or limit the sale, purchase, transfer, distribution, display,
possession, exchange of any alcoholic beverage, flammable liquid, explosive
substance or hazardous material or substance.
   (k)   Prohibit or limit any person or persons from assembling in public
places.
   (l)   Prohibit or limit the public’s use of public facilities including but
not limited to, parks, government buildings, rights-of-way, and beaches.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 2021-03, adopted 8-18-21)
§ 16-4. DURATION AND TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Upon declaration of a civil emergency pursuant to §
16-2, the state of emergency shall commence immediately unless otherwise
provided in the written instrument of the Mayor, Vice-Mayor, or Chief of
Police, and shall terminate when the declaration has been rescinded or
terminated by similar resolution or written instrument.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions in division (a) of this section, any
declaration of civil emergency imposed by the Mayor, Vice-Mayor, or the Chief
of Police shall be subject to review by the Town Commission at a regular or
special meeting within 24 hours of such declaration or as soon thereafter as
the Town Commission can convene a meeting. The Town Commission shall review the
declaration and determine whether a civil emergency exists. If a civil
emergency does not exist, the Town Commission shall declare such civil
emergency to be terminated by resolution. In any event, the declaration imposed
by the Mayor, Vice-Mayor, or Chief of Police shall immediately terminate at the
time the Town Commission makes the determination required by this division.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05)
§ 16-5. SALE OF GOODS, SERVICES, OR MATERIALS AT UNCONSCIONABLE PRICES.
   (a)   During a declared civil emergency, it shall be unlawful and a
violation of this chapter for a person or her or his agent or employee to rent
or sell or offer to rent or sell at an unconscionable price any goods,
services, materials, or essential commodity within the area for which a civil
emergency is declared.
   (b)   During a declared civil emergency, it shall be unlawful and a
violation of this chapter for any person to impose unconscionable prices for
the rental or lease of any dwelling unit or self-storage facility within the
area for which a civil emergency is declared.
   (c)   A price approved by an appropriate government agency shall not be a
violation of this section.
   (d)   For purposes of this section, the terms "commodity" and
"unconscionable" shall have the same meaning and evidentiary standard set forth
in Section 501.160, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05)
§ 16-6. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article, or violation of any emergency
measure promulgated under this article, by any person, shall constitute a code
violation and be punishable pursuant to §
1-99 of this code.
(Ord. 4-2005, adopted 8-17-05)
§§ 16-7. – 16-19. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 19: CABLE TELEVISION CODE
Section
   
19-1   Title
   
19-2   Authority
   
19-3   Definitions
   
19-4   Reservations
   
19-5   Rate regulation (Reserved)
   
19-6   Application for franchise
   
19-7   Grant of a franchise
   
19-8   Operation of a franchise
   
19-9   Transfer of ownership or control
   
19-10   Franchise fees
   
19-11   Forfeiture or revocation
   
19-12   Regulatory authority
   
19-13   Performance bonding; alternatives
   
19-14   Liability and insurance
   
19-15   Indemnification
   
19-16   Design and construction provisions
   
19-17   Service to subscribers
   
19-18   Books and records available to the town
§ 19-1. TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the "Melbourne Beach Cable Television Code."
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-2. AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted under the home rules powers of the town to promote
the public health, safety, welfare, and economic order of the community by
providing regulations for installation, rates, and minimum subscriber service
standards of cable systems within the town.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-3. DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as indicated
below. Terms used in this chapter but not defined below which are defined in
the Act shall have the meanings set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522. ACT shall mean
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, as further amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, codified in 47 U.S.C. § 521 et seq.
   APPLICANT shall mean all officers, agents, employees and representatives
seeking an approval, grant, or permit under this chapter.
   CABLE SYSTEM means a closed transmission oath and associated signal
generation, reception and control equipment and other communications equipment,
including any headend, antenna, wire, cable, line, tower, pole, amplifier,
converter, fiber optic line, that is designed to provide cable service which
includes video programming and other services and which is provided to multiple
subscribers within a community, but such term does not include: (i) a facility
that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more television
broadcast stations; (ii) a facility that serves only subscribers in one or more
multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless
such facility or facilities uses any public rights-of-way; (iii) a facility of
a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provision of
Title II of the Act, except that such facility shall be considered a cable
system to the extent such facility is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers; or (iv) any facilities of any electric
utility used solely for operating its electric utility systems.
   CHANNEL means a frequency band, which is capable of carrying either one
standard video signal, a number of audio, digital or other nonvideo signals or
some combination of such signals.
   COMPLAINT means a complaint that results in a service call or written
indication from a subscriber of a problem with any aspect of cable service.
   CONVERTER means an electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
not susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber,
and any channel selector which permits a subscriber to view signals delivered
at designated converter dial locations at the set or by remote control.
   DAYS means calendar days unless otherwise specified.
   FCC shall mean the Federal Communication Commission and any legally
appointed or elected successor.
   FRANCHISE shall mean an initial authorization or renewal thereof,
voluntarily entered into by the franchisee and issued by the town, whether such
authorization is referred to as a franchise, permit, license, resolution,
contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the
construction or operation of a cable system in the town. All franchises shall
be nonexclusive. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not
mean or include any franchise or permit required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the town as required by other
code provisions and ordinances of the town.
   FRANCHISE APPLICATION shall mean an application for an initial award or
renewal of a franchise.
   FRANCHISE AREA means the portion of the town for which a franchise is
granted under the authority of this code. If not otherwise stated in the
franchise, the franchise area shall be the corporate limits of the town,
including all territory thereafter annexed to the town. The franchisee shall be
notified in writing of any annexations to the Town.
   FRANCHISEE shall mean the person, whether natural, corporate, or otherwise,
domestic or foreign, to whom a franchise is granted by the town under this
chapter, and the lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of such person.
   FRANCHISE FEE means the percentage, as specified by this code, of the
franchisee's gross annual revenues derived from the operation of the cable
system in the Town and which is payable in exchange for the rights granted
pursuant to this code and the franchise.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES means all receipts derived directly or indirectly from
the operation of the system in the franchise area, including but not
necessarily limited to the supplying of regular subscriber service, that is,
monthly service charges, installation charges, disconnect and reconnect fees,
fees derived and collected from access and origination channels, all revenues
received by the franchisee for Pay-Per-View, leased channels, premium channels,
pay television, and other equipment and services provided over the cable system
in the Town to subscribers. The phrase "gross annual revenues" shall not
include any fees or taxes which are imposed directly on any subscriber thereof
by any governmental unit or agency, and which are collected by the Franchisee
on behalf of that entity. Nor shall the phrase include any debts for service or
equipment owed but uncollected by the Franchisee.
   INSTALLATION shall mean the connection of the system from feeder cable to
the subscribers' terminal(s).
   MONITORING means observing a communications signal, or the absence of a
signal, where the observer is not a party to the communication, whether the
signal is observed by visual or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever.
   NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION shall mean a newspaper appropriate for the
placement of legal notices as defined by Chapter 50, Florida Statutes.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY means the surface, the air space above the surface, and
the area below the surface of any public street, sidewalk, bridge, waterway,
utility easement, or other public property, which shall entitle the town and
the franchisee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining
the franchisee's cable television system. No reference herein, or in any
franchise, to the "public right-of-way" shall be deemed to be a representation
or guarantee by the town that its title to any property is sufficient to permit
its use for such purpose, and the franchisee shall, by its use of such terms,
be deemed to gain only such rights to use property in the town as the town may
have the undisputed right and power to give.
   SUBSCRIBER shall mean a person lawfully using or receiving cable services on
a particular cable system from a franchisee.
   TRANSFER means the disposal by the franchisee, directly or indirectly, by
gift, assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of twenty
percent (20%) or more at one time of the ownership or controlling interest in
the system, or thirty-five percent (35%) cumulatively over the term of the
Franchise of such interests to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
trust or association, or person or group of persons acting in concert or a
change in control.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-4. RESERVATIONS.
   (a)    Generally. In addition to the specific reservations of the town set
forth herein, the Town Commission hereby reserves unto the town the matters set
forth in this section.
   (b)    Police powers. In accepting a franchise, the cable franchisee
acknowledges that its rights thereunder are subject to the police powers of the
town to adopt and enforce ordinances, resolutions, policies, and practices
necessary to the convenience, health, safety, welfare, and economic order of
the public, and it agrees to comply with all applicable ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations, policies, and practices by the Town pursuant
to such power. Any inconsistency between, or ambiguity created by the
relationship between, the provisions of this chapter and any other
contemporaneous or future lawful exercise of the Town's Police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter.
   (c)   The Act.
      (1)   The Town shall have all powers not otherwise preempted by the act,
the regulations of the FCC, Section 166.046, Florida Statutes, or other
applicable Federal or State of Florida law or regulation, and shall have all
powers conferred on a franchising authority or allowed by the act which are not
addressed in this chapter.
      (2)   Should any amendment be made to the act or should any provision
thereof be held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction which materially affects the Town's authority with respect to the
regulation of this chapter, the Town Commission shall have the right to amend
this chapter to the extent it deems appropriate, and the existing franchise and
license shall be subject to such amendment.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-5. RATE REGULATION. (RESERVED)
§ 19-6. APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   (a)   All franchise applications to construct, operate, or maintain any
cable system in the Town, whether a renewal, transfer, or otherwise, or to
traverse any portion of those areas for the transmitting or conveying of such
service elsewhere, shall be filed with the Town Manager, and each such
application shall set forth, contain, or be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant, including but not limited to the following:
         (A)   The names and addresses of all general partners and corporate
officers of the applicant;
         (B)   The names and addresses of all persons and entities having,
controlling, or being entitled to have or control fifteen percent (15%) or more
of the ownership of the applicant and the respective ownership share of each
such person and entity;
         (C)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant and of any other business entity owning or controlling in whole or in
part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant;
         (D)   A detailed description of all previous experience of the
applicant in providing cable system services or related to similar services;
         (E)   A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant,
prepared by a certified public accountant, for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other
acceptable evidence in writing from a responsible lending institution or
funding source, addressed to both the applicant and the town setting forth a
clear statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to
provide whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and
overate the proposed system in the Town. The Town Commission shall have the
right to reject an applicant's financial statement based upon the Town
Commission finding the certified public accountant is not qualified to render
the opinion; and
         (F)   A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable
system franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the
status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; and the total
cost of completion of such system(s); and the amount of applicant's and its
parent's or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof.
      (3)   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant, which shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (A)   A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a
proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to
become operational throughout the entire area to be served;
         (B)   A statement or schedule setting forth all classifications of
rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges as
to each of any said classifications, including installation charges, service
charges, special, extraordinary, or other charges. The purchase price, terms,
and nature of any optional or required equipment, device, or other thing to be
offered for sale to any subscriber shall be described and explained in detail;
         (C)   A detailed statement describing the actual equipment and
operational standards proposed by the applicant; and
         (D)   A program listing indicating the channels and networks to be
offered to subscribers within the Town, together with a plan which the
applicant is willing to commit to for the expansion of programming services.
      (4)   A copy of the form of any agreement, understanding, or other
instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and the
subscriber;
      (5)   A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all
agreements and understandings, whether formal or informal, written, oral, or
implied, existing or proposed to exist between the applicant and any person,
firm or corporation which may affect control or operation of the system
contrary to this chapter, as amended, or franchise agreement;
      (6)   A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing
between the applicant and any public utility providing for the use of any
facilities of the public utility, including but not limited to poles, lines or
conduits;
      (7)   True and exact copies, if filed, of the last and most current FCC
Cable TV Information Report, FCC Form 325 as submitted to the FCC; and
      (8)   Any other reasonable information which could materially affect the
granting of a new franchise and requested by the Town.
   (b)   Franchise application fee. Each franchise application submitted for a
franchise, whether a renewal, transfer, or new application, shall be
accompanied by a franchise application processing fee in such amount as may be
set from time to time by resolution of the Town Commission.
   (c)   Public hearing on franchise applications.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a franchise application for a cable system
franchise, whether a renewal, transfer, or new application, the Town Commission
shall publish, within the required time frame, in a newspaper of general
circulation a notice of consideration of a cable system franchise. Said notice
shall name the applicant, describe the proposed service area, invite comments
regarding establishment of a cable system in the proposed franchise area from
existing cable systems and the general public and set a time and date certain,
at least thirty (30) days from the date of the first publication of the notice,
for a public hearing on all applications filed for the establishment of a cable
system and for all comments to the establishment of such cable system.
      (2)   The application shall be a matter of public record. An application
may be amended in writing at any time prior to the time and date for the public
hearing being set. No amendments to filed applications, oral or written, and no
new applications shall be received after the time and date set for the public
hearing. The public hearing may be continued from time to time and from place
to place as determined to be necessary by the Town Commission.
   (d)   Issuance of franchise.
      (1)   The town commission may issue one or more franchises from the
applications filed and considered at a public hearing after taking into
consideration the following factors:
         (A)   The financial stability of the applicant and the ability of the
applicant to make the necessary investment to erect, operate and maintain the
proposed cable system;
         (B)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system
based upon the proposed plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals;
         (C)   The proposed rates and charges to subscribers in the system;
         (D)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, operation and
maintenance of a cable television system;
         (E)   The potential of disruption of future service by destructive
competition because of the presence of too many competing companies based upon
the number of potential subscribers in the proposed service areas;
         (F)   The desirability and feasibility of granting additional rights
and privileges to use the streets, alleys, public ways and public places of the
Town and the method of placement of the necessary wires, poles, cables,
underground conduits, conductors and fixtures to operate and maintain the
proposed system;
         (G)   The location and type of permanent facilities proposed to be
constructed for such cable television system;
         (H)   The economic impact on private property, public need, present
and future capacity of public rights-of-way, and potential disruption to
existing users of rights-of-way; and
         (I)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In no event shall the Town grant any overlapping franchise for
cable service within its jurisdiction on terms or conditions more favorable or
less burdensome than those in any existing franchise within the Town.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-7 GRANT OF A FRANCHISE.
   (a)   Grant. The town can grant revocable and non-exclusive franchises to
construct and operate a cable system in, under, over, along, across or upon the
public rights-of-way within the town for the purpose of reception,
transmission, collection, amplification, origination, distribution or
redistribution of audio, video, data, or other signals.
   In exercising rights pursuant hereto, the franchisee shall not endanger or
interfere with the lives of persons, interfere with any installations,
buildings, or facilities of the town, any public utility, or any other person
permitted to use the public rights-of-way, nor unnecessarily hinder or obstruct
the free use of the public rights-of-way. The grant of one franchise does not
establish priority for use over the other present or future permit or franchise
holders or the town's own use of the public rights-of-way.
   All rights granted for the construction and operation of the cable system
shall be subject to the continuing right of the town to require such
reconstruction or relocation of the cable system in the public rights-of-way as
shall in the opinion of the town be in the public interest.
   No grant of any franchise shall be exclusive or affect the right of the town
to grant to itself or any other person the right to: build, operate, or own a
cable system; occupy or use the public rights-of-way for the construction and
operation of a cable system or for any purpose whatever. No privilege or power
of eminent domain is bestowed on a franchisee by the grant of a franchise.
   (b)   Event of conflict. In the event of conflict between the terms and
conditions of this code and the franchise, the franchise agreement shall
control. In all events, the franchisee shall comply with all laws, ordinances
and regulations enacted by the town pursuant to its lawful police and
regulatory powers as authorized by law.
   (c)   General code provisions. Any franchise granted by the town is hereby
made subject to the general code provisions now in effect and hereafter made
effective. Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive the requirements
of the various codes of the town regarding permits, taxes, fees to be paid, or
manner of construction.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-8. OPERATION OF A FRANCHISE.
   (a)    Use of public rights-of-way. For the purpose of operating and
maintaining a cable system in the town, the franchisee may erect, install,
construct, repair, replace, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon,
across and along the public streets and ways within the town such wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
pedestals, attachments and other property and equipment as are necessary to the
operation of the cable system; provided, however, that franchisee complies with
all design, construction, safety, and performance provisions contained in this
code, the franchise, and other applicable local ordinances.
   (b)    Term of franchise. The term of the franchise shall commence upon
execution of the franchise by the town and the franchisee, unless otherwise
provided in the franchise agreement, and shall continue for a period specified
in the franchise, unless sooner terminated as provided herein.
   (c)    Franchise required. No cable system shall be allowed to occupy or use
the public rights-of-way without a franchise.
   (d)    Right of condemnation reserved. Nothing in this code or the franchise
shall limit any right the town may have to acquire by eminent domain or
otherwise any property of franchisee; provided, however, that any such
acquisition shall be for a price that values the franchisee's property as
allowed by law.
   (e)   Town's right to perform public works. Nothing in this code shall be in
hindrance to the right of the town or any governmental authority to perform or
carry on, directly or indirectly, any public works or public improvements of
any description. Should the cable system in any way interfere with the
construction, maintenance or repair of such public works or public
improvements, the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense, protect or
relocate its cable system, or part thereof, as reasonably directed by the town
officials or any governmental authority.
   (f)   Emergency removal of plant. If at any time, in case of an emergency,
fire or disaster in the town, it shall become necessary in the reasonable
judgment of the town to cut or move any of the wires, cables, amplifiers,
appliances or appurtenances of the cable system, the town shall have the right
to do so at the sole cost and expense of franchisee. However, the Town shall
make all reasonable efforts to contact the franchisee prior to any cutting or
moving of wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or appurtenances of the cable
system, and if possible, in the Town's reasonable discretion, to allow the
franchisee to perform any cutting or moving of the cable system wires, cables,
amplifiers, appliances, or appurtenances. The franchisee shall bear all costs
of reinstallation, repair, and other costs resulting from or arising out of the
emergency cutting or removal of the cable system; provided, however that in the
event it is determined that an emergency, fire, or disaster did not exist then
the cost of such removal and reinstallation shall be borne by the town.
   (g)    Removal or abandonment. Upon termination of the franchise, at the
request of the Town the franchisee shall remove its cable system from the
public rights-of-way and shall restore any property, public or private, to its
original condition prior to the installation, erection, or construction of the
cable system. Restoration of town property, including, but not limited to, the
public rights-of-way, shall be in accordance with the directions and
specifications of all affected departments and agencies of the town, and all
applicable law. The franchisee shall accomplish such restoration at its
expense. If such removal and restoration is not completed within twelve (12)
months after notice by the town delivered in writing to franchisee, all of the
franchisee's property remaining in the affected public rights-of-way shall, at
the motion of the town, be deemed abandoned and shall, at the motion of the
town, become the property of the town. In the event the franchisee fails or
refuses to remove its system or to satisfactorily restore all areas to as
reasonably as close of condition in which they existed prior to the original
construction of the system, the town, at its option, may perform such work and
collect the cost thereof from the franchisee.
   (h)   Time is of the essence to this code. Whenever the code shall set forth
any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf of the franchisee, such
time shall be deemed to be of the essence, and any failure of the franchisee to
perform within the time allotted shall be sufficient ground for the town to
invoke any applicable provision of the code and franchise agreement.
   (i)    No waiver of rights. No course of dealing between the franchisee and
the town nor any delay on the part of the town in exercising any rights
hereunder shall operate as a waiver of any such rights of the town or
acquiescence in the actions of the franchisee in contravention of the town's
rights, except to the extent expressly waived by the town or expressly provided
for in the franchise.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-9. TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
   (a)    Transfer of franchise. No franchise granted hereunder shall be sold,
transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of, including but not limited to, by
force or voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or other means
without the prior consent of the town, and then only under such reasonable
conditions as the town may establish which may include but not be limited to
financial guarantees to the cable system.
   (b)    Transfer threshold. The franchisee shall promptly notify the town of
any actual or proposed change in, or transfer of, or acquisition by any other
party of, control of the franchisee.
   (c)    Town approval. Every change, transfer, or acquisition of control of
the franchisee shall make the franchise subject to cancellation unless and
until the town shall have consented thereto. For the purpose of determining
whether it shall consent to such change, transfer, or acquisition of control,
the town may inquire into the legal, financial, character, technical, and other
public interest qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling
party, and the franchisee shall assist the town in obtaining all required
information. Failure to provide all reasonable information requested by the
town as part of said inquiry shall be grounds for denial of the proposed change
transfer or acquisition of control.
   (d)   Signatory requirement. Any approval by the town of transfer of
ownership shall be contingent upon the prospective assignee becoming a
signatory to the franchise.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-10. FRANCHISE FEES.
   (a)   All cable system franchisees shall pay to the town a franchise fee in
an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, but in no event shall that
fee be less than five percent (5%) of the gross annual revenues, which payments
shall exclude bad debts, taxes and fees collected by the franchisee on behalf
of any governmental entity. This franchise payment shall become effective on
the next subscriber billing cycle after sixty (60) days from the effective date
of the franchise. If applicable law, including but not limited to the Act or
FCC regulations (all as amended from time to time), allows a greater franchise
fee, the franchisee shall within thirty (30) days of adoption of said law or
regulation forward a copy of same to the Town to the attention of the Town
Manager. The parties shall meet and confer to negotiate an increased fee within
ninety (90) days of notice to the franchisee by the Town, if the Town wishes to
renegotiate said franchise fee. The town shall be furnished a fully certified
statement of said payment by a certified public accountant, reflecting the
total amounts of annual gross revenues from the town and the above charges and
computations for the period covered by the payment within ninety (90) days
after the end of each year.
   (b)   Franchise fees in addition to other taxes or payments. Payment of the
franchise fee made by the franchisee to the town shall not be considered in the
nature of a tax, but shall be in addition to any and all taxes of general
applicability which are now or may be required hereafter to be paid by any
Federal, State, or local law.
   (c)   Acceptance by the town. Subject to applicable law, no acceptance of
any payment by the town shall be construed as a release or as an accord and
satisfaction of any claim the town may have for further or additional sums
payable as a franchise fee under this code or for the performance of any other
obligation of the franchisee.
   (d)    Failure to make required payment. In the event that any franchise
payment or recomputed amount is not made on or before the dates specified
herein, the franchisee shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge,
computed from such due date, at an annualized rate equal to the commercial
crime interest rate of the town's primary depository bank during the period
that such unpaid amount is owed.
   (e)   Periodic payments to be made. The franchisee shall make fee payments
of monies due hereunder within thirty (30) days of the end of each calendar
quarter for franchise fees collected during the preceding quarter. Accompanying
said payment, the franchisee shall also report its gross revenues for the
preceding quarter's period.
   (f)   Town right to inspection. The town shall have the right to inspect the
franchisee's gross revenue records and to audit and to recompute any fee
amounts. No audit of the franchisee's records relating to gross annual revenue
shall take place later than thirty-six (36) months following the close of each
of the franchisee's fiscal years. Audits that result in payment of five percent
(5%) or more of franchise fees during the audit period shall be at the expense
of the franchisee. Any additional amount due to the town as a result of the
audit shall be paid within thirty (30) days of notice by the town, unless the
franchisee disputes the results of the audit. The franchisee agrees to meet
with the Town and will attempt in good faith to resolve any differences.
Thereafter, the additional amount due shall be subject to payment within thirty
(30) days after said additional amount is determined to be due by the
franchisee and the town, or the town declares an impasse in the negotiations
with the franchisee.
   (g)    Payments due in event of termination or expiration. In the event the
franchisee continues the operation of any cart or all of the cable system
beyond the termination, revocation, or expiration of the franchise granted
herein, it shall pay to the town the franchise fee as set forth in this
franchise, at the time of such termination or expiration, and in the manner set
forth in this franchise.
   (h)    Alternative fee contingencies. In the event that the franchisee's
obligation to pay a franchise fee is held invalid by a decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction or due to the actions of any legislative body, the
franchisee shall negotiate with the town in good faith and shall agree, if
permissible under then applicable law, to provide compensation to the town in
lieu of the franchise fee. The amount of compensation shall, to the extent
permitted by applicable law, as amended from time to time, be comparable to
that which the franchisee would pay as the franchise fee under the terms of its
franchise if such terms were still valid and shall be passed through to the
subscriber in a manner similar to the franchise fee.
   (i)    Other fees and taxes. To the extent that any federal or state law or
regulation may now forbid the town from assessing any type of fee or tax, upon
repeal, modification, or judicial interpretation of said law or rule that would
permit the town to assess said fee or tax, the town shall have the right to
assess said fee or tax to the full extent authorized by law; provided, that the
town shall first consult with the franchisee. If applicable law is modified to
allow a fee or tax, the parties shall meet and confer within ninety (90) days
of notice from the town to in good faith negotiate franchise provisions to
implement the collection of said fee or tax.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-11. FORFEITURE OR REVOCATION.
   (a)    Grounds for revocation. The town reserves the right to revoke any
franchise granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated
with the franchise in the following circumstances, each of which shall
represent a default and breach under this code and the franchise grant:
      (1)   If the franchisee shall default in the performance of any of the
material obligations under this code or the franchise agreement;
      (2)   If the franchisee shall fail to provide or maintain in full force
and effect the liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond
as required herein;
      (3)   If the franchisee shall violate material provision of any orders or
rulings of any regulatory body having jurisdiction over the franchisee relative
to this code or the franchise and any regulatory ordinance of the town or FCC
after notice and an opportunity to cure;
      (4)   If the franchisee practices any fraud upon the town or cable
subscribers;
      (5)   If the franchisee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (6)   Failure to restore service town-wide after ninety-six (96)
consecutive hours of interrupted service, except when approval of such
interruption is obtained from the town, as provided in sub-section
19-11(b);
      (7)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise or any extension or renewal thereof; and
      (8)   If the franchisee shall fail to pay the franchise fee due after
demand as provided in this code.
   (b)    Effect of circumstances beyond control of franchisee. The franchisee
shall not be declared at fault or be subject to any sanction under any
provision of this code or the franchise agreement in any case, in which
performance of any such provision is prevented for reasons beyond the
franchisee's control. For the purposes of this code and any franchise agreement
granted or renewed hereunder, causes or events beyond the franchisee's control
shall include, without limitation, acts of God, floods, earthquakes,
landslides, hurricanes, fires and other natural disasters, acts of public
enemies, riots or civil disturbances, sabotage, strikes and restraints imposed
by order of a governmental agency or court. A fault shall not be deemed to be
beyond the franchisee's control if committed by a corporation or other business
entity in which the franchisee holds a controlling interest whether held
directly or indirectly, when such fault is due to franchisee's financial
inability to perform or comply, economic hardship, or misfeasance, malfeasance
or nonfeasance by any of the franchisee's directors, officers, employees or
contractors or agents.
   (c)   Effect of pending litigation. Pending litigation or any appeal to any
regulatory body or court having jurisdiction over the franchisee shall not
excuse the franchisee from the performance of its obligations under this code
or the franchise unless specifically provided for by court order or by the
regulatory body having jurisdiction over such matters. Failure of the
franchisee to perform such obligations because of pending litigation or
petition may result in forfeiture or revocation pursuant to the provisions of
this section.
   (d)   Procedure prior to revocation. The Town shall notify the franchisee in
writing of the exact nature of the alleged violation constituting a ground for
termination and give the franchisee thirty (30) days, or such greater amount of
time as the Town may specify, to correct such violations or to present facts
and arguments to refute the alleged violation. If the Town then concludes that
there is a basis for termination, it shall notify the franchisee thereof. If
within the designated time the franchisee does not remedy and/or put an end to
the alleged violation, the Town, after a public hearing where all interested
parties may be heard, may suspend or revoke the franchise, if it determines
that such action is warranted. The franchisee shall not be held in default nor
suffer any penalties where noncompliance or default is caused by an event
beyond the franchisee's control. The franchisee shall have the right to review
by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the Town Commission's determination
of non-compliance.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-12. REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Authority. The town reserves the right to exercise the maximum plenary
authority, as may at any time be lawfully permissible, to regulate the cable
system, the franchise and the franchisee. Should applicable legislative,
judicial or regulatory authorities at any time permit regulation not presently
permitted to the town, the town may without the approval of the franchisee
engage in any such additional regulation as may then be permissible, whether or
not contemplated by this code or the franchise, including without limitation,
regulation regarding franchise fees, taxes, programming, rates charged to
subscribers, consumer protection, or any other similar or dissimilar matter.
The town agrees to meet and confer with the franchisee prior to enacting new
regulatory ordinances.
   (b)   Right of inspection of cable facilities. The town shall have the right
to inspect all cable facilities or installation work performed subject to the
provisions of the franchise and to make such tests as it shall find necessary
to ensure compliance with the terms of this code and other pertinent provisions
of the law.
   (c)   Town regulation. To the extent that federal or state law or regulation
may now, or as the same may hereafter be amended by legislation, administration
regulation or decision, or judicial determination, to authorize the town to
regulate the rates for any particular service tiers, service packages,
equipment, or any other services provided by franchisee, the town shall have
the right to exercise rate regulation to the full extent authorized by law, or
to refrain from exercising such regulation for any period of time, at the sole
discretion of the town. The Town shall provide advance notification to the
franchisee of its intention to exercise any such regulation and written
notification when such ordinance is adopted. However, failure to so provide
advance notification to the franchisee or written notification when such
ordinance is adopted shall not be a basis upon which to declare a franchise
agreement in breach or to invalidate the adopted ordinance.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-13. PERFORMANCE BONDING: ALTERNATIVES.
   (a)   Performance bond. Prior to the effective date of the franchise, a
franchisee shall obtain and maintain during the entire term of any franchise
and any extensions and renewals thereof, at its cost and expense, and file with
the Town a corporate surety bond in the amount of $50.000 to guarantee the
faithful performance by the franchisee of all of its obligations provided under
this agreement and the Town Code. Such bond must be issued by a surety
acceptable to the Town. Alternatively, the franchisee shall obtain and
continuously maintain an unexpired irrevocable letter of credit which shall at
all times be in the possession of the Town. The form and contents of such
performance bond or letter of credit shall be acceptable to the Town. The
letter of credit shall be released only upon expiration of the franchise or
upon the replacement of the letter of credit by a successor franchisee.
   (b)   Conditions. The performance bond or letter of credit shall be issued
upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The performance bond shall be issued by a surety, located within
this State, and licensed and authorized by the State of Florida to do business
as a surety in Florida. The irrevocable letter of credit shall be issued by a
bank or savings and loan association acceptable to the Town, located in this
State, and authorized to do business in this State by either the State of
Florida Comptroller or the United States government. The letter of credit shall
name the town as the beneficiary.
      (2)   There shall be recoverable by the town jointly and severally from
the principal and surety or the financial institution that has issued the
letter of credit, any and all fines and liquidated damages due to the town and
any and all damages, losses, costs, and expenses suffered or incurred by the
town resulting from the failure of the franchisee to: faithfully comply with
the provisions of this code and the franchise; comply with all orders, permits
and directives of any town agency or body having jurisdiction over its acts or
defaults; pay any claims, liens, fees, or taxes due the town which arise by
reason of the construction, operation, maintenance or repair of the cable
system. Such losses, costs and expenses shall include but not be limited to
attorney's fees and other associated expenses.
      (3)   The total amount of the bond or letter of credit shall be forfeited
as a liquidated damage paid to the town in the event:
         (A)   The franchisee abandons the cable system or fails to initiate or
complete construction of the cable system as specified in any franchise
agreement or any extension thereto;
         (B)   The franchisee assigns the franchise without the express written
consent of the town; or
         (C)   The franchise is terminated by reason of the default of the
franchisee.
   (c)   Reduction of bond/letter of credit. Upon written application by the
franchisee, the Town may, at its sole option, permit the amount of the bond or
letter of credit to be reduced or waived for the term of the franchise or
periods of time, when it is determined by the Town Commission to be in the
public interest. Upon written application by the franchisee, the Town may, at
its sole option, permit the terms of the requirements of the performance bond/
letter of credit to be altered or waived for the term of the franchise or
periods of time, when it is determined by the Town Commission to be in the
public interest.
   (d)    Use of performance bond and letter of credit. Prior to drawing upon
the letter of credit or the performance bond for the purposes described in this
section, the town shall notify the franchisee in writing that payment is due,
and the franchisee shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of such written
notice to make a full and complete payment. If the franchisee does not make the
payment within thirty (30) days or demonstrate reason acceptable to the Town
why such action should not be taken, the town may withdraw the amount thereof,
with interest and penalties, from the letter of credit or the performance bond.
Within three (3) days of a withdrawal from the letter of credit or performance
bond, the town shall send to the franchisee, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notification of the amount, date and purpose of such
withdrawal.
   (e)   Replenishment of letter of credit and performance bond. No later than
thirty (30) days, after mailing to the franchisee by certified mail
notification of a withdrawal pursuant to paragraph (d) above, the franchisee
shall replenish the letter of credit and/or performance bond in an amount equal
to the amount so withdrawn. Failure to make timely replenishment of such amount
to the letter of credit and/or performance bond shall constitute a failure of
the franchisee to faithfully comply with the provisions of this code and the
franchise.
   (f)    Non-renewal, alteration, or cancellation of letter of credit or
performance bond. The performance bond and letter of credit required herein
shall be in a form satisfactory to the town which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld and shall require thirty (30) days written notice of any
non-renewal, alteration or cancellation to both the town and the franchisee.
The franchisee shall, in the event of any such cancellation, alteration, or
non-renewal notice, obtain, pay all premiums for, and file with the town,
written evidence of the issuance of replacement bond or policies within thirty
(30) days following receipt by the town or the franchisee of any notice of
cancellation, alteration, or non-renewal.
   (g)   Inflation. To offset the effects of inflation, the amount of the bond
or letter of credit provided for herein, is subject to a reasonable increase at
the end of every three (3) year period of the franchise, applicable to the next
three year period, at the sole discretion of the town.
   (h)   Default. The performance bond and letter of credit provided pursuant
to this section shall become the property of the town in the event that the
franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of the default of the
franchisee.
   (i)   Right to require replacement of bonds or letter of credit. If the town
becomes aware of the financial condition of any bonding or financial
institution issuing a performance bond or letter of credit as required herein
and said financial condition is deemed by the town to jeopardize the collateral
posted with the town, the town may, at any time, require that any such bond or
letter of credit be replaced with such other bond or letter of credit
consistent with the requirements set forth in this section.
   (j)   Insurance for contractor and subcontractors. The franchisee, or its
subcontractors, shall provide coverage for any contractor or subcontractor
involved in the construction, installation, maintenance, removal, or operation
of the cable system by either obtaining the necessary endorsements to its
insurance policies or requiring such contractor or subcontractor to obtain
appropriate insurance coverage consistent with this code and appropriate to the
extent of its involvement in the construction, installation, maintenance,
removal, or operation of franchisee's cable system,
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-14. LIABILITY AND INSURANCE.
   (a)    Certificate of insurance. Prior to commencement of construction, but
in no event later than sixty (60) days after the effective date of the
franchise and thereafter continuously throughout the duration of the franchise
and any extensions or renewals thereof, the franchisee shall furnish to the
town, certificates of insurance, approved by the town, for all types of
insurance required under this section. Failure to furnish said certificates of
insurance in a timely manner shall constitute a failure to faithfully comply
with the franchise agreement. At the town's request, the franchisee shall
furnish copies of any or all policies or certificates of insurance which are in
effect from time to time.
   (b)    No liability limit. Neither the provisions of this section or any
damages recovered by the town hereunder, shall be construed to limit the
liability of the franchisee for damages under any franchise issued hereunder.
   (c)    Endorsement. All insurance policies maintained pursuant to a
franchise shall contain an endorsement in substantially the following form:
      It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be
modified or canceled by the insurance company nor the intention not to renew be
stated by the Melbourne Beach town manager by certified mail, of a written
notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew.
   (d)   State institution. All insurance policies provided pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall be written by companies authorized by the Florida
Insurance Commissioner to do business in the State of Florida as an insurance
company.
   (e)   Named Insured. The town shall be an additional named insured for all
insurance policies written pursuant to a franchise.
   (f)   Changes in policy limits. To offset the effects of inflation and to
reflect changing liability limits, all of the coverage, limits, and amounts of
the insurance provided for herein are subject to reasonable increases at the
end of every three (3) year period of the franchise, applicable to the next
three year period, at the town's discretion.
   (g)   Commercial general liability insurance. The franchisee shall maintain
throughout the term of the franchise, general liability insurance insuring the
franchisee in the minimum of:
      (1)   $1,000,000 for property damage single limit; and
      (2)   $2,000,000 single limit liability for personal bodily injury or
death to any one person.
Such general liability insurance must include coverage for all of the
following: comprehensive form, premises operations, explosion and collapse
hazard, underground hazard, products/completed operations hazard, contractual
insurance, broad form property damage, and personal injury.
   (h)   Automobile liability insurance, The franchisee shall maintain
throughout the term of the franchise, automobile liability insurance for owned,
non-owned, or rented vehicles in the minimum amount of:
      (1)   $1,000,000 single limit liability for bodily injury and consequent
death her occurrence; and
      (2)   $500,000 for property damage per occurrence.
   (i)    Worker's compensation. The franchisee shall maintain throughout the
term of the franchise, worker's compensation in the minimum amount of the
statutory limit for worker's compensation, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-15. INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   Indemnity. The franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the town and its officers, boards and
commissions, contractors, and town employees against any and all claims, suits,
actions, declaratory, injunctive, or equitable claims, liability and judgments
for damages (including but not limited to expenses for reasonable legal fees
and disbursements and liabilities claimed against the town in connection
therewith):
      (1)   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of the franchisee, its servants, agents or employees;
      (2)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of any person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement
of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent, or of any
other right of any person, firm or corporation arising out of the award or
operation of its cable system and franchise or any programming carried on
franchisee's cable system; and
      (3)   Arising out of the franchisee's failure to comply with the
provisions of any federal, state, or local laws, ordinances, or regulations
applicable to franchisee in its business hereunder.
   (b)    Condition. The foregoing indemnity is conditioned upon the town
giving the franchisee prompt notice of any claim or the commencement of any
action, suit or other proceeding covered by the provisions of this section.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the town from cooperating with the
franchisee and participating in the defense of any litigation by its own
counsel at its own costs and expense.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-16. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS.
   (a)    Authorization to commence construction and application procedures.
Prior to the installation or erection of any towers, poles or conduits, other
than minor or emergency excavation and maintenance, or the upgrade or rebuild
of the cable system, the franchisee shall first submit to the town for review a
concise description of the facilities proposed to be maintained, erected,
removed, or installed, including engineering drawings, if required by the town.
No erection or installation of any tower, pole, underground conduit, or
fixture, excavation of other than a minor or emergency nature shall be
commenced by any person until proper permits have been received from the town.
   (b)    Town maps. The town does not guarantee the accuracy of any maps
showing the horizontal or vertical location of existing substructures or
utilities.
   (c)    Compliance with construction and technical standards. The franchisee,
through the cable system, shall provide uniform, strong signals which are free
from any significant distortion and interference as required by FCC. The cable
system shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained for 24-hours-a-
day continuous operation. The system shall produce, for reception on
subscribers' receivers which are in good working order, either monochrome or
color pictures (providing the receiver is color capable) which are free from
any noticeable interference or distortion which would cause any material
degradation of video or audio quality as required by F.C.C.
   (d)    Quality of construction. Construction, installation, operation, and
maintenance of the cable system shall be performed in an orderly and
workmanlike manner, in accordance with then current technological standards.
The franchisee shall utilize its best efforts to have all cables and wires
installed, parallel with electric and telephone lines. Multiple cable
configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled with due respect for
aesthetic and engineering considerations. Nothing herein shall preclude
underground installation.
   (e)    Underground Installation.
      (1)   All installations shall be underground in those areas of the town
where public utilities providing telephone and electric service are underground
at the time of installation. In areas where either telephone or electric
utility facilities are above ground at the time of installation, the franchisee
may install its cable system above ground; provided, that at such time as those
facilities are required to be placed underground by the town or are placed
underground, the franchisee shall likewise place its cable system underground
without additional cost to the town or to the individual subscribers so served
within the town so long as the franchisee is provided with access to the open
trenches at the time of excavation. Where not otherwise required to be placed
underground by this code or the franchise, the franchisee's system shall be
located underground at the request of the adjacent property owner; provided
that the excess cost over the aerial location shall be borne by the property
owner making the request. Any and all cables to be constructed under any paved
street or alley, or other right of way shall be accomplished by the jacking of
an underground pipe or conduit, and under no circumstances shall cable be
constructed under a paved street, alley or other public wad by digging or
excavating from the surface of the paved street. All cable passing under the
street shall be installed in conduit.
      (2)   Prior to performing any underground construction, the franchisee
shall use its best efforts to locate, in advance, any water, sewage, gas,
electric, drainage, or other utility (including other cable systems) lines,
including compliance with Chapter 556, Florida Statutes, to the extent
applicable. Where any damages or alterations occur to said utility lines in the
public right-of-way as a result of construction, reconstruction, maintenance,
or removal of the cable system by the franchisee, its agents or independent
contractors, the cost of such repairs including all services and materials will
be the responsibility of the franchisee.
   (f)    Construction notice. Except with regard to routine maintenance and
emergency circumstances, the franchisee shall give appropriate notice to the
town and residents within a reasonable period of time of proposed construction,
excavation, laying or stringing of cable under streets or on poles, but in no
event shall such notice be given less than (5) business days before such
commencement.
   (g)    Interference with persons, public and private property, and
utilities. The franchisee's system and facilities, including poles, lines,
equipment and all appurtenances, shall be located, erected and maintained so
that such facilities shall:
      (1)   Not endanger or interfere with the health, safety or lives of
persons;
      (2)   Not interfere with any improvements which the town, county or state
may deem proper to make;
      (3)   Not interfere with the free and proper use of public rights-of-way,
alleys, bridges, easements or other public property, except to the minimum
extent possible during actual construction or repair;
      (4)   Not interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of private
property owners, except to the minimum extent possible during actual
construction or repairs; and
      (5)   Not obstruct, hinder or interfere with any gas, electric, water,
wastewater, reclaimed water, stormwater drainage, telephone, or other utility
facilities located within the town.
   (h)   Restoration to prior condition. In case of any disturbance of
pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the franchisee shall, at its
own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the town, replace and restore
all paving, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping, or surface of any street or alley
disturbed, in as good a condition as before said work was commenced and in a
good workmanlike, timely manner in accordance with standards for such work set
by the town or the governmental entity having operational and maintenance
responsibility for the right-of-way. Unless otherwise approved by the town
manager, such restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten (10)
business days after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as
possible thereafter.
   (i)    Private property. The franchisee shall promptly repair or replace all
private property, both real and personal, damaged or destroyed as a result of
the construction, installation, operating or maintenance of the cable system at
its sole cost and expense.
   (j)    Tree trimming. The franchisee shall trim trees or other vegetation to
prevent branches, leaves or roots from touching or otherwise interfering with
its wires, cables, or other structures as follows:
      (1)   Except for emergencies, all tree/root trimming or pruning to be
conducted on public property or public rights-of-way shall be done only with
the town's prior written approval;
      (2)   All trimming or pruning shall be at the expense of the franchisee;
      (3)   Any and all persons engaged by the franchisee to provide tree
trimming or pruning services shall be deemed, for purposes of the franchise, an
employee or agent of franchisee when engaged in such activity, and in no event
shall such person be deemed to be an employee of the town; and
      (4)   The franchisee shall use its best efforts to obtain the prior
permission of the owner of any privately owned trees or other vegetation before
it prunes or trims same.
   (k)    Erection, removal, and common use of poles. No poles shall be erected
by the franchisee without prior approval of the town with regard to location,
height, type and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of any pole
of the franchisee shall be a vested right, and such poles shall be removed,
relocated or modified by the franchisee at its own expense whenever the town
determines that the public safety, convenience, or aesthetics would be enhanced
thereby. The Town may also require that such poles shall be removed, relocated
or modified by the franchisee at the Town's expense for other reasons. No poles
shall be erected by the franchisee exceeding thirty (30) feet above grade in
height and shall be of a concrete construction with a diameter of not greater
than ten (10) inches at the base and four (4) inches at the top. The franchisee
shall also obtain hole attachment agreements for use of any utility poles or
other utility facilities required in connection with the provision of services;
provided, they are available on reasonable terms and conditions. In the event
that a pole owned by other than the franchisee is to be moved either at the
request or direction of the town and franchisee is making use of said pole, the
franchisee shall remove, relocate or modify its lines, wires, appurtenance, and
equipment attached to said pole at franchisee's expense at the request of the
town. The town shall have the right, during the term of the franchise, to
install and maintain on reasonable terms and conditions upon the poles owned by
the franchisee, any wire and pole fixtures that does not unreasonably interfere
with the cable system operations of the franchisee.
   (l)    Progress reports. For work involving right-of-way excavation for
other than in the event of an emergency, prior to commencing construction, the
franchisee shall provide the town with a schedule for completion of said work.
If the work, whether of an emergency nature or otherwise, takes longer than
five (5) days to complete, each calendar week, the franchisee shall submit to
the town a written progress report detailing work completed to date
construction, work remaining to be completed, and time remaining to complete
said work. Such report shall include a description of the progress in applying
for any necessary agreements, licenses, or certifications and any other
information the town manager may deem reasonably necessary for the monitoring
of the work schedule.
   (m)    Cumulative Leakage Index ("CLI") monitoring. The franchisee shall
comply with FCC requirements with regard to CLI monitoring on an on-going
basis. The results of said monitoring shall be made available to the town upon
written request.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-17. SERVICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (a)   Programming. The franchisee shall provide all services to subscribers
as described herein.
      (1)   Inform subscribers. The franchisee shall inform subscribers, via
written notice of proposed programming changes at least thirty (30) days in
advance of said change.
      (2)   Subscriber electronic equipment. To the extent economically
feasible and technologically available, the franchisee shall ensure that its
system shall be compatible with television sets that are equipped with premium
function (picture in picture and cable tuning), VCR's, etc. The franchisee
shall notify subscribers that they may purchase commercially available remote
control device from any source that sells such device rather than renting it
from the franchisee. The franchisee shall periodically notify subscribers that
a partial list of the types of remote control units that are compatible with
the converter box supplied by the franchisee, is maintained at the franchisee's
business offices and available for subscriber inspection. The franchisee shall
not take any action that prevents commercially available remote control units
to be utilized with the franchisee converter box.
      (3)   Emergency Override. The Franchisee shall, without charge, provide,
service and maintain emergency override equipment which shall be shared and
coordinated with the other local governmental entities in the county.
      (4)   Televising Town Commission meetings. As part of its basic tier of
programming service, from time to time as requested by the Town and within the
franchise area as much as possible, the franchisee shall televise a tape of all
Town Commission meetings. The tape shall be telecasted in its entirety without
significant interruption during evening hours commencing between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. within not more than seven (7) days after the Town
supplies a videotape of the Commission meeting. The Town shall be responsible
for the cost and expense of taping of the Town Commission meetings, and the
tape shall meet the technical requirements of the franchisee. The franchisee
shall be responsible for the cost of telecasting said meetings. Upon request by
the Town, the franchisee shall give technical expertise to the Town in taking
its Town Commission meeting, and the franchisee may, but shall not be obligated
to, charge a reasonable fee for the purpose of defraying the cost of said
expertise.
   (b)   Consumer services.
      (1)   Business office. The franchisee shall establish, operate and
maintain an office/repair facility within twelve (12) miles of the town. The
purpose of the facility will be to: provide maintenance and repair to the cable
system; receive inquiries, requests and complaints concerning all aspects of
the of the cable system; and to receive payment of subscribers' service
charges. Office hours will be at a minimum: Monday -Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 5:30
p.m.
      The franchisee shall provide all subscribers with at least thirty (30)
days prior written notice of a change in business office hours. Under normal
operating conditions, the business office shall maintain a staff adequate to
process complaints, requests for installation, service or repairs, and other
business in a timely and efficient manner.
      (2)   Telephone service. The franchisee shall have a listed toll-free
telephone number for service calls available twenty-four (24) hours a day,
seven (7) days a week and for consumer information, complaints, and
installation/disconnection of service available during regular business office
hours. Said telephone number(s) shall be made available to the general public
by the telephone information operator and published in the local telephone
directory. The franchisee shall provide a telephone number to the town and
utility companies to enable the town or utility companies to reach the
franchisee in case of emergency on a 24-hour, 7-days-a-week basis. The number
shall be a telephone number that Town or utility company officials will be able
to reach an appropriate Franchisee official as quickly as possible. The number
may be an unlisted number or a number that Town/utility officials will be able
to reach an appropriate Franchisee official without delay. All subscriber
related calls will be handled by a customer service representative ("CSR"). The
CSR will attempt to resolve the subscriber's concern over the phone. Telephones
will be answered within thirty (30) seconds and transitioning of calls shall be
made within thirty (30) seconds ninety percent (90%) of the time. The caller
shall receive a busy signal less than five percent (5%) of the time. The
Franchisee shall monitor compliance with this section, and at the request of
the Town shall verify to the Town's reasonable satisfaction such compliance.
The franchisee shall add additional telephone lines and service representatives
when existing lines are substantially utilized or when a pattern of subscriber
complaints reflect a need for additional service employees.
      In the event the CSR is unable to resolve the call, it will be assigned
to a service technician. Under normal operating conditions, the call will then
be scheduled for service before the end of the next business day. The following
level of service is a minimum level of service: For single subscribers service
technicians are available Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. and are "on-
call" during the weekends. Efforts to schedule specific morning (8:00 a.m. -
12:00 p.m.) or afternoon (1:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.) appointments are made when it
is reasonably necessary to accommodate a subscriber's schedule. In addition,
service technicians are "on-call" 6:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. weekdays for minor
outage problems. A "minor outage" is defined as a disruption of service
reasonably identifiable as unique to 3 to 10 subscribers, or to a specific
geographic area. Appointments are scheduled to be date-specific.
   A technician may cancel an appointment with a subscriber after the close of
business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment, but only if
the franchisee's technician first contacts the subscriber to notify them of the
cancelled appointment. The appointment will be re-scheduled at the convenience
of the subscriber on a weekday between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. or on a weekend
between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. If the installer is running late and will not
be able to keep the service appointment as scheduled, the subscriber will be
contacted, and the appointment will be rescheduled at the subscriber's
convenience on a weekday between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. or on a weekend between 9:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
      (3)   "Normal operating conditions," as that term is used in this sub-
section 19-17(b), includes all conditions except times of natural disasters,
power outages, civil disturbances, telephone network outages, severe or unusual
weather conditions, and includes but is not limited to other similar types of
circumstances beyond the control of the franchisee.
   (c)   Service outage. The franchisee will begin working on a "major outage"
promptly and complete repairs no later than twenty-four (24) hours after the
interruption becomes known. The cable operator must begin actions to correct
other service problems the next business day after notification of the service
problem. System outages are handled from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. seven days per
week. These hours take into consideration the safety and security precautions
for all cable system personnel. A "major outage" is defined as total disruption
of service to a majority of subscribers within a specific geographic area.
   (d)   Complaint Records. The franchisee shall keep full records in
connection with all inquiries, complaints and requests in connection with the
system. Such records shall identify the person contacting the franchisee, and
the person responding on behalf of the franchisee, the subject matter of the
contact, the date and time it was received, the resolution of the matter in
question or the action taken by the franchisee in connection with the contact,
and the date and time thereof, and such other information as may be deemed
pertinent by the franchisee. Written complaints shall be made available for
periodic inspection by the Town.
   (e)   Subscriber solicitation. The franchisee shall provide the town with a
list of names and addresses of all representatives who will be soliciting
within the town and the area in and the dates within such solicitations shall
take place. Each such representative and all other employees entering upon
private property shall be required to wear an employee identification card
issued by the franchisee and bearing a picture of said representative.
   (f)   Installation and connection.
      (1)   Service obligations. The franchisee shall make service available
throughout the entire franchise area to any residential subscribers; provided
any back debts due to the franchisee from the prospective subscriber have been
made current. Within seven (7) days of a request for service by any person or
entity, the franchisee shall furnish the requested service to such person or
entity if a standard installation is within one hundred fifty (150) feet from
the prospective subscriber's residence. If not within one hundred fifty (150)
feet service shall be provided within thirty (30) days of a request for
service, except where permitting takes a longer periods of time. Any non-
standard installation is an installation over one-hundred fifty (150) feet from
the prospective subscriber's residence, and in such cases the provision of
service will be handled under a share cost program.
      (2)   Standard installations. The standard installation shall consist of
a service not exceeding one hundred fifty (150) feet from a single point or
pedestal attachment to the subscriber's residence. The desire of the subscriber
as to the point of entry into the residence or commercial establishment and
location of pedestal, if on the subscriber's property, shall be observed
whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as
possible. The franchisee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber's property caused by said
installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten (10)
days after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible
thereafter.
      (3)   At the request of the Town Manager, the franchisee shall provide
one basic service outlet to Town hall, the police department, the fire
department, and the public works department and public schools within the
Town's franchise area at no cost to the Town or school involved; provided,
however, that the structure to be served is within 150 feet of the franchisee's
distribution system.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
§ 19-18. BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO THE TOWN.
   (a)   Records. The town shall have the right to inspect at any time during
normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans, revenue statements,
service complaint logs, performance test results and other like materials of
the franchisee which relate to the operation and enforcement of the franchise.
Access to the aforementioned records shall not be denied by the franchisee on
the basis that said records contain "proprietary" information, unless
applicable law exempts said records. Said records shall be maintained in
Brevard County.
   (b)    Review. The franchisee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the town to examine and copy or transcribe any and all plans
and other records kept or maintained by the franchisee or under its control
concerning the operations, affairs, transactions or property of franchisee.
   (c)    Reports to be filed. The following financial reports for the
franchise area shall be submitted annually to the town ninety days (90) after
the end of the franchisee's fiscal year:
      (A)   An ownership report, indicating all persons who at any time during
the preceding year did control or benefit from an interest in the franchise of
five percent (5%) or more.
      (B)   An annual, fully-audited and certified financial report from the
previous calendar year, including year-end balance sheets income statement
showing subscriber revenue from each category of service and every source of
non-subscriber revenue.
      (C)   An annual list of officers and members of the Board of franchisee
and of any parent corporation.
   (d)    Mandatory records. The franchisee shall at all times maintain:
      (1)   A record of all complaints received and interruptions or
degradation of service experience for the preceding period prior to a
performance review.
      (2)   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as built" plans
showing the exact location of all cable system equipment installed or in use in
the town, exclusive of subscriber service drops. A "drop" is a connection from
the feeder cable to the subscriber/user television set, radio or other
terminal.
   (e)    Other records. The town may impose reasonable requests for additional
information, records and documents from time to time, and the franchisee shall
produce said records within ten (10) business days, so long as such request
relates to the town's enforcement abilities under this code or the franchise
agreement.
(Ord. 94-05, passed 12-14-94)
CHAPTER 27: STORMWATER
Section
Article I. Stormwater Utility
   
27-1   Findings and purpose
   
27-2   Definitions
   
27-3   Town stormwater management program
   
27-4   Stormwater management system benefits area
   
27-5   Stormwater utility fee; rate resolution
   
27-6   Preparation and certification of the annual stormwater utility
assessment roll to the Tax Collector
   
27-7   Method of collection of annual stormwater utility assessment
   
27-8   Separately prepared stormwater utility assessment notice
   
27-9   Correction of errors and omissions; adjustments; petition to Town
Commission
   
27-10   Failure to include real property on annual stormwater utility
assessment roll
   
27-11   Application of annual stormwater utility assessment to governmental
agencies
   
27-12   Applicability of stormwater utility assessment to tax exempt real
property
   
27-13   Stormwater Utility Fund
Article II. Illicit Discharge and Connection
   
27-20   Short title
   
27-21   Objectives
   
27-22   Definitions
   
27-23   Applicability
   
27-24   Compatibility with other regulations
   
27-25   Severability
   
27-26   Ultimate responsibility
   
27-27   Control of pollutant contributions from interconnected municipal
separate storm sewer systems
   
27-28   Prohibitions
   
27-29   Stormwater discharges from commercial, industrial or construction
activities to the municipal separate storm sewer system or regulated waters
   
27-30   Authorized exemptions
   
27-31   Emergency conditions
   
27-32   Inspection and monitoring for compliance
   
27-33   Reporting requirements
   
27-34   Violations; enforcement; penalties
   
27-35   Schedule of penalties
   
27-36   Use of penalty awards
Article III. Stormwater Runoff; Fertilizer
   
27-50   Findings and purpose
   
27-51   Definitions
   
27-52   Applicability
   
27-53   Timing of fertilizer application
   
27-54   Fertilizer free zones
   
27-55   Low maintenance zone
   
27-56   Fertilizer content and application rates
   
27-57   Application practices
   
27-58   Management of grass clippings and vegetative matter
   
27-59   Exemptions
   
27-60   Proof of training of commercial applicators
ARTICLE I. STORMWATER UTILITY
§ 27-1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   Uncontrolled drainage and development of land has a significant
adverse impact upon the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
town. More specifically:
      (1)   Stormwater runoff is capable of carrying pollutants into receiving
bodies, thereby degrading water quality;
      (2)   The increase in nutrients, such as phosphorous and nitrogen,
accelerates eutrophication of receiving water bodies, thereby adversely
affecting flora and fauna;
      (3)   Improperly channeling water increases the velocity of stormwater
runoff, thereby increasing erosion and sedimentation;
      (4)   Construction requiring the alteration of natural topography and
removal of vegetation tends to increase erosion;
      (5)   Siltation of water bodies resulting from increased erosion
decreases the capacity of said water bodies to hold and transport water,
interferes with navigation and harms flora and fauna;
      (6)   Impervious surfaces increase the volume and rate of stormwater
runoff, and allow less water to percolate into the soil, thereby decreasing
groundwater recharge;
      (7)   Improperly managed stormwater runoff may increase the incidents of
flooding and the level of floods which occur, thereby endangering property and
human life;
      (8)   Improperly managed stormwater runoff may interfere with the
maintenance of optimum salinity in estuarine areas, thereby disrupting
biological productivity;
      (9)   Substantial economic losses may result from such adverse impacts
upon the waters of the town ecosystem;
      (10)   Sound stormwater utility manage- ment practices result in the
avoidance of future problems concerning the development of land and the
maintenance of the quality of the town environment.
   (b)   The purpose of this article is to protect, maintain, and enhance both
the immediate and the long-term health, safety, and general welfare, of the
citizens, residents, and inhabitants of the town. In order to effectuate this
stated purpose, this article has the following objectives:
      (1)   To establish a stormwater manage- ment program within the town,
which is mutually compatible with those developed by the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection, the St. Johns River Water Management District,
Brevard County, Town of Indialantic, and other local governmental entities;
      (2)   To develop a stormwater manage- ment program, to be responsible
for: the construction, operation, and maintenance of stormwater devices;
stormwater system planning; review of development plans for compliance with
stormwater management codes; and river quality management;
      (3)   To create one or more stormwater management system benefit areas
and adopt stormwater utility fees or assessments sufficient to plan, construct,
operate, and maintain stormwater management systems throughout the town;
      (4)   To establish and set aside, as a continuing source of revenue,
other funds sufficient to plan, construct, operate, and maintain stormwater
management systems throughout the town;
      (5)   To encourage productive and enjoyable harmony between humanity and
nature;
      (6)   To protect, restore, and maintain the chemical, physical, and
biological integrity of community waters;
      (7)   To prevent individuals, business organizations, and governments
from causing harm to the community, by activities which adversely affect water
resources;
      (8)   To encourage the construction of drainage systems which
aesthetically and functionally approximate natural systems;
      (9)   To encourage the protection of natural systems, and the use of such
natural systems in ways which do not impair their beneficial functioning;
      (10)   To encourage the use of drainage systems which minimize the
consumption of electrical energy, or petroleum fuels, in order to move water,
remove pollutants, and maintain said systems;
      (11)   To minimize the transport of pollutants to community waters;
      (12)   To maintain or restore groundwater levels;
      (13)   To protect, maintain, or to restore natural salinity levels in
estuarine areas;
      (14)   To minimize erosion and sediment- ation;
      (15)   To prevent damage to wetlands;
      (16)   To reduce damage from flooding, while recognizing that natural
fluctuations in water levels are beneficial;
      (17)   To protect, restore, and maintain the habitat of fish and
wildlife; and
      (18)   To ensure the attainment of these objectives by requiring the
approval and implementation of a stormwater management program for all
activities which may have an adverse impact upon community waters.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-2. DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meaning set forth in this section.
      (1)   BENEFIT AREA. The area(s) benefitted by the stormwater management
system program, the boundaries of which are described in §
27-4.
      (2)   COMMISSION. The Town Commission.
      (3)   DIRECTOR. The Town Manager, or such other person as is designated
by the Town Manager.
      (4)   DIVISION. The stormwater utility program or its successor in
function.
      (5)   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). To serve as reference from which
an equitable distribution of the cost of services and facilities can be made
among all properties within  the town through a stormwater management service
charge rate methodology. The equivalent residential unit within the town for
the purpose of service charge ratemaking has been determined through
engineering analysis to be a gross area of 2,500 square feet of effective
impervious area.
      (6)   IMPERVIOUS AREAS. Surfaces which have been compacted or covered
with a layer of material which is highly resistant to infiltration by water,
such as roofed and paved areas, including, but not limited to, areas covered by
roofs, roof extensions, slabs, patios, porches, driveways, sidewalks, parking
areas and athletic areas. It shall also include semi-impervious areas, such as
compacted clay.
      (7)   LOT. A parcel of land shown on a recorded plat or on the Brevard
County Property Appraiser's maps, or any piece of land described by deed and
recorded in the Public Records of Brevard County, Florida.
      (8)   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, and includes
any individual, firm, corporation, governmental agency, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, association, two or more persons having a joint or common
interest, or any other legal entity.
      (9)   PROPERTY OWNER. The person in whom is vested the fee ownership,
dominion, or title of real property. This term may also include a tenant, if
chargeable under tenant's lease for the maintenance of the subject real
property, and any agent of the owner or tenant, including a developer.
      (10)   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The town program by which the
objectives set forth in §
27-1(b) shall be achieved and pursuant to which a stormwater utility shall be
operated to achieve those objectives.
   (b)   When consistent with the context, words used in the present tense
shall include the future, and words in the future tense shall include the
present tense. Words in the plural shall include the singular, and words in the
singular shall include the plural. Words in the male gender shall include the
female gender, and the word 'shall' is always mandatory and not merely
directive.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-3. TOWN STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
   (a)   Pursuant to the authority granted under Sections403.0891, et seq.,
Florida Statutes, the Town Commission hereby directs the Town Manager to
develop and implement a stormwater management program, for the purposes and
objectives set forth hereunder.
   (b)   The stormwater management program shall be instituted within the town,
as the town boundaries are amended from time to time, dependent upon need and
fiscal ability to plan, design, and construct necessary capital improvements
therein.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-4. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM BENEFITS AREA.
   (a)   There is hereby created, pursuant to Section 403.0893(3), Florida
Statutes, the town stormwater management system benefit area, the boundaries of
which shall be the incorporated limits of the town as amended from time to
time.
   (b)   All property owners within the benefit area shall be assessed an
annual stormwater utility fee to fund the planning, construction, operation,
maintenance and administration of a public stormwater management system for the
benefit area, pursuant to the criteria and standards set forth in this article,
and any applicable rate resolution adopted pursuant hereto.
   (c)   In the event that said benefit area contains different land uses which
receive substantially different levels of stormwater benefits, stormwater
management system benefit sub-areas may be created, which shall be assessed
different stormwater utility fees from sub-area to sub-area based upon a
reasonable relationship to benefits received.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-5. STORMWATER UTILITY FEE; RATE RESOLUTION.
   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section403.0893, Florida Statutes, a
stormwater utility fee is hereby created and imposed on all real property
located within the town's stormwater management system benefit areas for
services and facilities provided by the stormwater management program.
   (b)   Said stormwater utility fee shall constitute a non-ad valorem
assessment, pursuant to the provisions of Section 403.0893, Florida Statutes.
   (c)   On or before the 15th day of September of the first year of
assessment, the Town Commission shall hold a public hearing to adopt a rate
resolution. The rate resolution shall stay in effect until such time as a
change in the stormwater utility fee or assessment is proposed. On or before
the 15th day of September in the year of a proposed rate change, the Town
Commission shall hold a public hearing to adopt the modified rate resolution
for the purposes of imposing the stormwater utility fee or assessment upon the
owners of all real property located within the designated stormwater management
system benefit area. Said rate resolution shall incorporate a schedule of rates
and classifications of all affected real property in the designated stormwater
management system benefit area.
   (d)   On or before the 15th day of September of each year, the Town
Commission shall adopt a budget for the operation and maintenance of the
stormwater management program for the ensuing town fiscal year. Said budget
shall include funds for the payment of outstanding and anticipated
indebtedness, including all reserves necessary in connection with such
financing, for the provision of contributions into such reserves as deemed
necessary for future capital and land acquisitions and renewal and replacement
of existing facilities, for the enforcement and administration of the billing
and collection of the annual stormwater utility fees or assessments provided
for under the provisions of this article, including the necessary reserves for
anticipated delinquent or uncollectible annual stormwater utility fees or
assessments, and for the payment of the current operation and maintenance of
such stormwater management program. The rate resolution adopted by the Town
Commission shall provide sufficient revenues to fund the budget adopted for the
operation and maintenance of the stormwater management program.
   (e)   Notice of the public hearing concerning the above referenced rate
resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the town
at least once, with the first publication being at least 20 days prior to the
public hearing. Said public hearing may be continued to a date certain without
the necessity of further newspaper advertisement or public notice.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-6. PREPARATION AND CERTIFICATION OF THE ANNUAL STORMWATER UTILITY
ASSESSMENT ROLL TO THE TAX COLLECTOR.
   (a)   On or before the 15th day of September of each year, the Director
shall cause to be prepared an annual stormwater utility assessment roll based
on information provided by the Property Appraiser. Such roll shall contain a
summary description of each parcel of real property within the designated
stormwater management system benefit areas; the name and address of the owner
of each such parcel; the rate classification applicable to each parcel of real
property as specified in the rate resolution; and the amount of the annual
stormwater utility fee or assessment applicable to each such parcel of real
property. The summary description of each parcel of real property shall be in
such detail as to permit ready identification of each parcel on the real
property assessment roll.
   (b)   The Town Commission shall, at any regular or special meeting held on
or before the 15th day of September of each year, review the annual stormwater
utility assessment roll prepared by the Director for its conformity with the
rate resolution provided for in §
27-5. The Town Commission shall make such changes or additions as necessary to
conform such roll with the rate resolution. Upon the completion of such review,
if the Town Commission shall be satisfied that the annual stormwater utility
assessment roll has been prepared in conformity with the rate resolution, it
shall ratify and confirm such roll and certify the roll to the Brevard County
Tax Collector for appropriate action.
   (c)   In the event that any classification of real property designated in
the rate resolution requires an individual calculation of the annual stormwater
utility assessment, the Director shall calculate and determine such annual
stormwater utility assessment.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-7. METHOD OF COLLECTION OF ANNUAL STORMWATER UTILITY ASSESSMENT.
   (a)   Annual stormwater utility assessments shall be collected and enforced
in the same manner that ad valorem taxes are collected and enforced, including,
but not limited to, provisions relating to discount for early payment,
prepayment by the installment method, penalty for delinquent payment, and
issuance of tax certificates and tax deeds for nonpayment, as provided for in
Section 197.3631, Florida Statutes, as amended.
   (b)   Failure to pay the annual stormwater utility assessment in the
required manner will result in the issuance of a tax certificate against the
subject property, and may result in the loss of title to the subject property.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-8. SEPARATELY PREPARED STORMWATER UTILITY ASSESSMENT NOTICE.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed or interpreted to
preclude the Town Commission from submitting, within its discretion, a
separately prepared notice of the annual stormwater utility assessment imposed
on certain real property within the town, to the owner of such property, if in
the opinion of the Town Commission such procedure will facilitate the billing
and collection of such annual stormwater utility assessment.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-9. CORRECTION OF ERRORS AND OMISSIONS; ADJUSTMENTS; PETITION TO TOWN
COMMISSION.
   (a)   No act or omission or commission on the part of the Property
Appraiser, Tax Collector, the Town Commission, the Director, or their
respective deputies or employees, shall operate to defeat the payment of the
annual stormwater utility assessment imposed by the Town Commission under the
provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, any acts of omissions or
commission may be corrected at any time by the officer or party responsible,
and when so corrected they shall be construed to be valid ab initio and shall
in no way affect any process by law for the enforcement of the annual
stormwater utility assessments imposed under the provisions of this article.
   (b)   The Town Commission shall have the authority, at any time, upon its
own initiative or in response to a petition from any affected owner of real
property, to correct any error of omission or commission in the adoption of any
annual stormwater utility assessment roll, or in the implementation of this
chapter, and make necessary adjustments thereto.
   (c)   Any owner of real property may petition the Town Commission to correct
any asserted error or omission or commission in relation to their property in
the adoption of the annual stormwater utility assessment roll, or any addendum
to such roll, or in the implementation of this article, or any asserted
exemption or basis for variance or mitigation from the adopted assessment
against their property, within 30 days of the date of mailing the final notice
of ad valorem taxes and non-ad valorem assessments for the current year. Such
petition shall be initiated by filing with the Director a written petition
containing the name of owner, a legal description of the real property
affected, a summary description of the asserted error, or basis for exemption,
variance, or mitigation, and the relief requested of the Town Commission. Such
petition may be considered by the Town Commission at any regular or special
meeting, with notice being provided to the petitioner; provided, however, that
the Town Commission may establish, by resolution, a stormwater utility appeals
committee, and delegate to such committee the authority and responsibility to
hear such petitions provided for under this section, pursuant to the procedures
set forth in the enabling resolution creating such appeals committee.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-10. FAILURE TO INCLUDE REAL PROPERTY ON ANNUAL STORMWATER UTILITY
ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When it shall appear that any annual stormwater utility assessment might
have been imposed under the provisions of this article against any parcel of
real property, but such parcel of real property was omitted from the
appropriate annual stormwater utility assessment roll, the Town Commission may,
by resolution, impose the applicable annual stormwater utility assessment for
the fiscal year in which such error is discovered, plus the applicable annual
stormwater utility assessment for up to the prior two fiscal years if such real
property was subject to an annual stormwater utility assessment for such prior
time of assessment. Such total annual stormwater utility assessments shall
become delinquent if not fully paid, upon the expiration of 60 days from the
date of the adoption of said resolution, and upon becoming delinquent shall be
subject to the penalties and interest for delinquent annual stormwater utility
assessments, as provided in Chapter 197, Florida Statutes. Such total annual
stormwater utility assessments shall be subject to a discount for early
payment, as provided in Ch. 197, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-11. APPLICATION OF ANNUAL STORMWATER UTILITY ASSESSMENT TO GOVERNMENTAL
AGENCIES.
   All governmental agencies owning real property within designated stormwater
management system benefit areas shall be exempt from the annual stormwater
utility assessment imposed under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-12. APPLICABILITY OF STORMWATER UTILITY ASSESSMENT TO TAX EXEMPT REAL
PROPERTY.
   The exemption of property from taxation under Florida law shall not relieve
the owner of any such real property located within a designated stormwater
management system benefit area from the provisions of this chapter, or from the
imposition by the board of the annual stormwater utility assessment applicable
to such real property, as specified in the rate resolution adopted under the
provisions of §
27-5.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
§ 27-13. STORMWATER UTILITY FUND.
   (a)   There shall be established a stormwater utility fund for the deposit
of all fees collected pursuant to this article, for each designated stormwater
management system benefit area.
   (b)   The stormwater utility fund shall be used exclusively to provide
services and facilities related to the stormwater management program. Said
funds shall only be utilized for the following expenditures, and shall be held
as trust funds of the town:
      (1)   Operation or maintenance of storm-water management facilities
constructed by the stormwater management program benefitting the town;
      (2)   Costs for the planning, evaluation, design, construction, and
management of the stormwater management program;
      (3)   Administrative costs related to the management of the stormwater
management program;
      (4)   Management services, such as permit review and planning and
development review related to the stormwater management program;
      (5)   Debt service financing of capital improvements related to the
stormwater management program.
(Ord. 2000-04, passed 8-16-00)
ARTICLE II. ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
§ 27-20. SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as “The Town of Melbourne Beach
Illicit Discharge (IDO) Code.”
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-21. OBJECTIVES.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Melbourne Beach through the
regulation of non-stormwater discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer
system to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law.
This code establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the municipal separate storm sewer system in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process.
   (b)   The objectives of this article are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system by stormwater discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
article.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-22. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The department within the Town of Melbourne
Beach that is designated by the Town Manager as having the responsibility to
enforce this article.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT or CWA. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any on-site activity which will result in the
creation of a new stormwater discharge, including the building, assembling,
expansion, modification or alteration of the existing contours of the site, the
erection of buildings or other structures, or any part thereof, or land
clearing.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE or ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. 
      (1)   Any discharge to the town’s municipal separate storm sewer system
or to waters of the United States which is not entirely of stormwater, unless
exempted pursuant to §
27-28, or the discharge to the town’s municipal storm separate sewer system or
to waters of the United States which is not in compliance with federal,
Florida, or local permits.
      (2)   ILLICIT CONNECTION means either of the following:
         (A)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal or illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system
including but not limited to any conveyances that allow any non-storm water
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency;
or
         (B)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or
industrial land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in
plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement
agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES. Activities at facilities identified by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency as requiring an NPDES stormwater permit
in accordance with 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14) or amendments thereto, or any unit
operation, complex, area or multiple of unit operations that produce, generate,
handle, process or cause to be processed, any materials which may cause water
pollution.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. A conveyance, storage area or system
of conveyances and storage areas (including, but not limited to, roads or
streets with drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, storm drains, treatment ponds and other structural BMPs) owned and
operated by a local government that discharge to waters of the United States or
to other municipal separate storm sewer systems, that is designed solely for
collecting, treating or conveying stormwater and that is not part of publicly
owned treatment works (POTW) as defined by 40 CFR 122.2 or any amendments
thereto.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection
(FDEP) that authorizes the discharges of pollutants to waters of the United
States.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, governmental agency, business trust,
estate trust, partnership, association two or more persons having a joint or
common interest or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordnances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   RECEIVING BODIES OF WATER. Any water bodies, watercourses and wetlands into
which surface waters flow.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The designed features of the property that
collect, convey, channel, hold, inhibit or divert the movement of stormwater.
   WATER BODY. Any natural or artificial pond, lake, reservoir, or other area
which ordinarily or intermittently contains water and which has a discernible
shoreline.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial stream, creek, channel, ditch, canal,
waterway, gully, ravine or wash in which water flows in a definite direction,
either continuously or intermittently, and which has a definite channel, bed or
banks.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-23. APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to all water entering the municipal separate storm
sewer system on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
by this article or an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-24. COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This article is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this article are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this article imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human health or the environment shall control.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-25. SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
word, provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this article.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-26. ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this article are
minimum standards; therefore this article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-27. CONTROL OF POLLUTANT CONTRIBUTIONS FROM INTERCONNECTED MUNICIPAL
SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Interconnected municipal separate storm sewer systems, including municipal
separate storm sewer systems not owned by the town, shall be controlled so that
they do not impair the operation of or contribute to the failure of the
receiving municipal separate storm sewer systems to meet any applicable local,
state, or federal law or regulation. Owners of sections of an interconnected
municipal separate storm sewer systems shall be responsible for the duality
within their portion of the system and shall coordinate with the owners of the
downstream segments.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-28. PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Illicit/illegal discharges. No person shall throw drain, or otherwise
discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain, or
otherwise discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer systems any
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater, whether
such discharges occur through piping connections, runoff, exfiltration,
infiltration, seepage or leaks. Polluting matter includes, but is not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Petroleum products, including, but not limited to oil, gasoline,
grease;
      (2)   Solid waste (as defined in Section 403.702, Fla. Stat.);
      (3)   Paints;
      (4)   Steam cleaning waste;
      (5)   Pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers;
      (6)   Degreasers, solvents;
      (7)   Sanitary sewage;
      (8)   Chemically treated cooling water;
      (9)   Antifreeze and other automotive products;
      (10)   Lawn clippings, leaves, branches, and the like;
      (11)   Animal carcasses;
      (12)   Recreational vehicle waters;
      (13)   Dyes;
      (14)   Construction materials;
      (15)   Any liquids in quantity or quality that are capable of causing a
violation of the town’s NPDES stormwater permit; and
      (16)   Solids in such quantities or of such size capable of causing
interference or obstruction to the flow of the town’s separate storm sewer
system.
   (b)   Illicit connections.
      (1)   No person may maintain, use or establish any direct or indirect
connection to any storm sewer owned by the town that results in any discharge
in violation of any provision of federal, state, city of other laws or
regulations.
      (2)   This division (b) is retroactive, and applies to illicit
connections made prior to the effective date of the article from which this
division (b) is derived; regardless of whether made under a permit or other
authorization, or whether permissible under laws or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time the connection was made.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the municipal separate storm sewer
system, or allows such a connection to continue.
   (c)   Violation of permits. Any discharge into the stormwater system of the
town in violation of any federal, state, county, municipal or other
governmental law, rule, regulation or permit is prohibited, except those
discharges set forth in this section or as in accordance with a valid NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-29. STORMWATER DISCHARGES FROM COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES TO THE MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM OR REGULATED WATERS.
   (a)   Stormwater from areas of any commercial activity, industrial activity
or construction activities shall be controlled, treated and managed on-site
using best management practices so as not to cause an illicit or illegal
discharge to the town’s municipal separate storm sewer system or regulated
waters.
   (b)   All erosion, pollutant, and sediment controls required by the town
code, or by any applicable local, state, or federal permit, including elements
of a stormwater pollution prevention plan required under a NPDES permit and the
town’s land development regulations in Appendix A of the Town Code, shall be
properly implemented, installed, operated, and maintained.
   (c)   Authorized discharges to the town’s municipal separate storm sewer
system shall be controlled so that they do not impair the operation of the
town’s municipal separate storm sewer system or contribute to the failure of
the town’s municipal separate storm sewer system to meet any applicable local,
state, or federal law or regulation.
   (d)   Authorized discharges to regulated waters shall be controlled so that
they do not adversely impact the quality or beneficial uses of those waters or
result in violation of any applicable local, state, or federal law or
regulation.
   (e)   Any person who has been issued an NPDES permit authorizing discharges
to the municipal separate storm sewer systems shall submit a complete copy of
the permit to town building official by not later than June 30, 2008, (30 days
after the effective date of this article), or within 30 days after the issuance
of a permit.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-30. AUTHORIZED EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The commencement, conduct or discontinuance of any illicit or illegal
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as follows:
      (1)   Water line flushing;
      (2)   Flushing of reclaimed water lines;
      (3)   Street cleaning;
      (4)   Construction dust control;
      (5)   Landscape irrigation;
      (6)   Diverted stream flows;
      (7)   Rising ground waters;
      (8)   Foundation and footing drains;
      (9)   Uncontaminated swimming pool discharges;
      (10)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as defined at 40 C.F.R.
35.205(20));
      (11)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
      (12)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (13)   Air conditioning condensate;
      (14)   Irrigation water;
      (15)   Springs;
      (16)   Lawn watering;
      (17)   Individual residential car washing;
      (18)   Flows from riparian habitat and wetlands; and
      (19)   Discharges or flows from emergency fire fighting activities and
emergency response activities done in accordance with an adopted spill
response/action plan.
   (b)   The prohibitions contained in this article shall not apply to any non-
stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-31. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Not withstanding any other provisions of this article, whenever the
town or an authorized enforcement agency determines that conditions or
activities requiring immediate action to protect public health, safety or
welfare, or to provide for compliance with these regulations, rules promulgated
hereunder, or town approved construction plans, town forces are authorized to
enter at a reasonable time in or upon any property for the purpose of testing,
inspecting, investigating, measuring, sampling and correcting such emergency
conditions. Failure to admit personnel responding to emergency conditions, as
determined and authorized by the authorized enforcement agency, shall
constitute a separate violation of this article.
   (b)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The town
or other authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend
municipal separate storm sewer system discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the municipal separate storm sewer
system or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the town or other authorized
enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the municipal separate storm sewer systems or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (c)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the municipal separate storm sewer system in violation of this
article may have their municipal separate storm sewer system access terminated
if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The town or
other authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its municipal separate storm sewer system access. The violator
may petition the town or other authorized enforcement agency for a
reconsideration and hearing. It is considered an offense of this article if the
person reinstates municipal separate storm sewer systems access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-32. INSPECTION AND MONITORING FOR COMPLIANCE.
   Town personnel and town agents shall be granted access for inspection of
facilities discharging or suspected of discharging to the town’s municipal
separate storm sewer system or waters of the United States in order to
effectuate the provisions of this article and to investigate violations or
potential violations of any of the terms herein. All structures and processes
which allow discharges to the town’s municipal separate storm sewer system, as
well as records connecting them, shall be made accessible to town personnel and
town agents for this purpose.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-33. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system are
prohibited. Any person owning or occupying a property, premise, or facility who
has knowledge of a discharge of pollutants from said property, premise, or
facility or other type of evidence which might result in a violation of the
prohibitions found in §
27-28 of this article shall immediately take action to abate the discharge of
pollutants, and shall notify the authorized enforcement agency within 24 hours
of the discharge of pollutants. The initial notification may be by telephone,
but the person responsible shall submit a written report within 72 hours of
discovery. The written report shall include a description of the discharge
volume, content frequency, discharge point location to the municipal separate
storm sewer system, measures taken or to be taken to terminate the discharge,
and the name, address and telephone number of the person who may be contacted
for additional information. Hazardous materials discharges shall be reported to
the town, the Brevard County Public Safety Office, the Brevard County Health
Department, and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-34. VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the town or an authorized enforcement agency finds that a
person has violated a prohibited act or failed to meet a requirement of this
article, the town or the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require
without limitation:
         (A)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges.
         (B)   The issuance of cease and desist orders.
         (C)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and restoration of any affected property.
         (D)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work may be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expenses thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (b)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
The notice of appeal must be received within ten days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal shall be before the town Code
Enforcement special magistrate and shall take the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal. The decision of the town shall be final.
   (c)   In addition to any fines that may be imposed, any person responsible
for illicit or illegal discharges, or noncompliance with BMPs at industrial
and/or construction sites, and who fails to correct any prohibited condition or
discontinue any prohibited activity at the order of the authorized enforcement
agency shall be liable to the town for the expenses incurred in abating
pollution, including expenses incurred in testing, measuring, sampling,
collecting, removing, treating, and disposing of the polluting materials and
preventing further noncompliance and/or illicit discharges.
   (d)   Persons responsible for violation of this article shall be liable for
all costs incurred by the town in sampling, analyzing and/or monitoring the
discharge, together with all state and/or federal fines imposed as a result of
the discharge and cost of removing, remedying or properly treating the
discharge.
   (e)   Any person found in violation and/or who fails to comply with the
requirements of any provision of the article shall, without limitation on the
town’s legal recourse, be subject to prosecution before the town’s Code
Enforcement special magistrate. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (f)   The town may elect to take any or all of the above remedies
concurrently, and the pursuit of one shall not preclude the pursuit of another.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 27-35. SCHEDULE OF PENALTIES.
   A person who has been convicted of an offense under this article may be
required to pay a fine in addition to any punishment of incarceration as
described in §
1-99. Fines for designated violations shall not exceed:
 
Section            Description                     Penalty
27-28              Failure to comply with IDO      $200 per day/per occurrence
                   prohibitions
                   Failure to comply with IDO
27-29 (a)(c)(d)(e) industrial activities and       $125 per day/per occurrence
                   construction site requirements
27-33              Failure to comply with IDO      $125 per occurrence
                   reporting requirements
                   Failure to comply with IDO site
27-34              remediation and monitoring      $200 per day/per occurrence
                   requirements
                   Failure to comply with IDO
27-29(b)           erosion and sedimentation       $50 per day/per occurrence
                   control measures
 
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
§ 27-36. USE OF PENALTY AWARDS.
   Any money recovered by the town in an action against any person who has
caused pollution in the town in violation of this article or state law shall be
used for water quality improvement protects in the town.
(Ord. 2008-04, adopted 4-16-08)
ARTICLE III. STORMWATER RUNOFF; FERTILIZER
§ 27-50. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   Findings. As a result of impairment to Brevard County's surface
waters, caused by excessive nutrients, or, as a result of increasing levels of
nitrogen in the surface and/or groundwater within the aquifers or springs
within the boundaries of the town, the Town Commission has determined that the
use of fertilizers on lands within the town creates a risk to contributing to
adverse effects on surface and/or groundwater. Accordingly, the Town Commission
finds that management measures contained in the most recent edition of the
“Florida-Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources
by the Green Industries, 2008,” are required by this article.
   (b)   Purpose. This article regulates the proper use of fertilizers by any
applicator; requires proper training of commercial and institutional fertilizer
applicators; establishes training and licensing requirements; establishes a
prohibited application period; specifies allowable fertilizer application rates
and methods, fertilizer-free zones, low maintenance zones, and exemptions. The
article requires the use of best management practices which provide specific
management guidelines to minimize negative secondary and cumulative
environmental effects associated with the misuse of fertilizers. These
secondary and cumulative effects have been observed in and on Brevard County's
natural and constructed stormwater conveyances, rivers, creeks, canals,
springs, lakes, estuaries, and other water bodies in and adjacent to the town.
Collectively, these water bodies are an asset critical to the environmental,
recreational, cultural, and economic well-being of the town residents and the
health of the public. Overgrowth of algae and vegetation hinder the
effectiveness of flood attenuation provided by natural and constructed
stormwater conveyances. Regulation of nutrients, including both phosphorus and
nitrogen contained in fertilizer, will help improve and maintain water and
habitat quality.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 27-51. DEFINITIONS.
   For this article, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in
this section unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   APPLICATION or APPLY. The actual physical deposit of fertilizer to turf or
landscape plants.
   APPLICATOR. Any person who applies fertilizer on turf and/or landscape
plants within the town.
   APPROVED BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES TRAINING PROGRAM. A training program
approved by the town manager that includes, at minimum, the most current
version of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's “Florida-
Friendly Best Management Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the
Green Industries, 2008,” as revised and any more stringent requirements set
forth in this article.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Turf and landscape practices or combination of
practices based on research, field-testing, and expert review, determined to be
the most effective and practicable on-location means, including economic and
technological considerations, for improving water quality, conserving water
supplies, and protecting natural resources.
   COMMERCIAL FERTILIZER APPLICATOR. Any person who applies fertilizer on turf
and/or landscape plants within the town in exchange for money, goods, services,
or other valuable consideration.
   CONTROLLED RELEASE. See SLOW RELEASE.
   FERTILIZE, FERTILIZING, or FERTILIZATION. The act of applying fertilizer to
turf, specialized turf, or landscape plants.
   FERTILIZER. Any substance or mixture of substances, except pesticide/
fertilizer mixtures such as “weed and feed” products, that contains one or more
recognized plant nutrients and promotes plant growth, or controls soil acidity
or alkalinity, or provides other soil enrichment, or provides other corrective
measures to the soil.
   GUARANTEED ANALYSIS. The percentage of plant nutrients or measures of
neutralizing capability claimed to be present in a fertilizer.
   INSTITUTIONAL APPLICATOR. Any person, other than a non-commercial or
commercial applicator (unless such definitions also apply under the
circumstances), that applies fertilizer for the purpose of maintaining turf
and/or landscape plants. INSTITUTIONAL APPLICATORS shall include, but shall not
be limited to, owners and managers of public lands, schools, parks, religious
institutions, utilities, industrial or business sites, and any residential
properties maintained in condominium and/or common ownership.
   LANDSCAPE PLANT. Any native or exotic tree, shrub, or groundcover (excluding
turf).
   LAWN. See TURF.
   LOW MAINTENANCE ZONE. An area consisting of a minimum of twenty-five (25)
feet in width, adjacent to water courses, which is planted and managed in order
to minimize the need for fertilization, watering, mowing, and similar types of
activities.
   PASTURE. Land used for livestock grazing that is managed to provide feed
value.
   PERSON. Any natural person, business, corporation, limited liability
company, partnership, limited partnership, association, club, organization,
and/or any group of people acting as an organized entity.
   PROHIBITED APPLICATION PERIOD. The time period during which a flood watch or
warning, or a tropical storm watch or warning, or a hurricane watch or warning
is in effect in any portion of the town, issued by the National Weather
Service, or if heavy rain is likely.
   RESTRICTED APPLICATION PERIOD. The time period beginning June 1st and ending
September 30th of each calendar year.
   SLOW RELEASE, CONTROLLED RELEASE, TIMED RELEASE, SLOWLY AVAILABLE, or WATER
INSOLUBLE NITROGEN. Nitrogen in a form which delays its availability for plant
uptake and use after application, or which extends its availability to the
plant longer than a reference rapid or quick release product.
   SLOWLY AVAILABLE. See SLOW RELEASE.
   SOD. See TURF.
   TIMED RELEASE. See SLOW RELEASE.
   TOWN MANAGER. The town manager of Melbourne Beach, or an administrative
official of the town government designated by the town manager to administer
and enforce the provisions of this article.
   TURF, SOD, or LAWN. A piece of grass-covered soil held together by the roots
of the grass.
   WATER INSOLUBLE NITROGEN. See SLOW RELEASE.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14)
§ 27-52. APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall be applicable to and shall regulate any and all
applicators of fertilizer and areas of application of fertilizer within the
area of the town, unless such applicator is specifically exempted by the terms
of this article from the regulatory provisions of this article. This article
shall be prospective only and shall not impair any existing contracts.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10)
§ 27-53. TIMING OF FERTILIZER APPLICATION.
   No applicator shall apply fertilizers containing nitrogen and/or phosphorus
to turf and/or landscape plants during the prohibited application period, or to
saturated soils. In addition, no fertilizer containing nitrogen or phosphorus
shall be applied to turf or landscape plants during the restricted application
period.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14) Penalty, see
§
1-99
§ 27-54. FERTILIZER FREE ZONES.
   Fertilizer shall not be applied within fifteen (15) feet of any surface
waters, pond, stream, watercourse, lake, canal, or wetland as defined by the
Florida Department of Environmental Protection (see Chapter 62-340, Florida
Administrative Code) or from the top of a seawall. If more stringent town
regulations apply, this provision does not relieve the requirement to adhere to
the more stringent regulations. Newly planted turf and/or landscape plants may
be fertilized in this zone only for a sixty (60) day period beginning thirty
(30) days after planting if needed to allow the plants to become well
established, but caution shall be used to prevent direct deposition of
nutrients into the water.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14) Penalty, see
§
1-99
§ 27-55. LOW MAINTENANCE ZONE.
   A voluntary twenty-five (25) foot wide low maintenance zone is strongly
recommended, but not mandated, from any pond, stream, water course, lake,
wetland, or from the top of a seawall. A swale/berm system is recommended for
installation at the landward edge of this low maintenance zone to capture and
filter runoff. If more stringent regulations are adopted by the town and apply,
this provision does not relieve the requirement to adhere to the more stringent
regulations. No mowed or cut vegetative material should be deposited or left
remaining in this zone or deposited in the water. Care should be taken to
prevent the over-spray of aquatic weed products in this zone. Care must be
taken to ensure erosion of the surface soil does not occur. Excessive erosion
may be a greater pollution hazard than occasional proper applications of
fertilizer.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14) Penalty, see
§
1-99
§ 27-56. FERTILIZER CONTENT AND APPLICATION RATES.
   The appropriate best management practices listed below must be followed on
the following sites for nutrient management activities:
   (a)   Unless otherwise permitted herein, fertilizers applied to turf within
the town shall be formulated and applied in accordance with Rule 5E-1.003(2),
Florida Administrative Code. Fertilizers applied to landscape plants within the
town shall be applied at rates as provided in University of Florida, Institute
of Food and Agricultural Sciences (IFAS) recommendations with the modification
that the nitrogen content of fertilizer shall contain at least 50% slow
release, controlled release, timed release, slowly available, or water
insoluble nitrogen per guaranteed analysis label.
   (b)   Fertilizer containing nitrogen or phosphorus shall not be applied
before seeding or sodding a site, and shall not be applied for the first thirty
(30) days after seeding or sodding, except when hyro-seeding for temporary or
permanent erosion control in an emergency situation (wildfire, etc.), or in
accordance with the stromwater pollution prevention plan for that site.
   (c)   Phosphorus fertilizer shall not be applied to turf or landscape plants
without a soil or tissue test indicating a deficiency as verified by a
University of Florida, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences (IFAS)
approved testing method.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the nitrogen content of
fertilizer applied to turf or landscape plants shall contain slow release,
controlled release, timed release, slowly available, or water insoluble
nitrogen per guaranteed analysis label of not less than 50%.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14) Penalty, see
§
1-99
§ 27-57. APPLICATION PRACTICES.
   (a)   Spreader deflector shields are required when fertilizing via rotary
(broadcast) spreaders. Deflectors must be positioned such that fertilizer
granules are deflected away from all impervious surfaces, fertilizer-free
zones, and water bodies, including wetlands.
   (b)   Fertilizer shall not be applied, spilled, or otherwise deposited on
any impervious surfaces.
   (c)   Any fertilizer applied, spilled, or deposited, either intentionally or
accidentally, on any impervious surface shall be immediately and completely
removed to the greatest extent practicable.
   (d)   Fertilizer released on an impervious surface must be immediately
contained and either legally applied to turf or any other legal site, or
returned to the original or other appropriate container.
   (e)   In no case shall fertilizer be washed, swept, or blown off impervious
surfaces into stormwater drains, ditches, conveyances, or water bodies.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10) Penalty, see §
1-99
§ 27-58. MANAGEMENT OF GRASS CLIPPINGS AND VEGETATIVE MATTER.
   In no case shall grass clippings, vegetative material, and/or vegetative
debris, either intentionally or accidentally, be washed, swept, or blown off
into stormwater drains, ditches, conveyances, water bodies, wetlands, or
sidewalks or roadways.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10) Penalty, see §
1-99
§ 27-59. EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions set forth above in this article shall not apply to:
   (a)   Bona fide farm operations as defined in Florida Right to Farm Act,
Section 823.14, Florida Statutes, provided, that fertilizers are applied in
accordance with the appropriate best management practices manual adopted by the
Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, Office of Agricultural
Water Policy, for the crop in question.
   (b)   Non-commercial applicators not otherwise required to be certified,
such as private citizens on their own residential property, are encouraged to
follow the recommendations of the University of Florida, Institute of Food and
Agricultural Sciences (IFAS) Florida Yards and Neighborhoods program when
applying fertilizers.
   (c)   Golf courses, parks and athletic fields which are subject to and
implementing best management practices as prescribed in Rule 5E-1.003(2)(d),
F.A.C., shall be exempt from this article.
   (d)   Plants, trees and vegetables used for edible food, owned by the
individual property owners or a community, provided that fertilizer application
rates do not exceed University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural
Sciences (UF/IFAS) recommendations or those from a county agricultural
extension agent which are applicable to Brevard County.
   (e)   Yard waste compost, mulches or other similar materials that are
primarily organic in nature and are applied to improve the physical condition
of the soil.
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10; Am. Ord. 2014-07, adopted 6-18-14)
§ 27-60. PROOF OF TRAINING OF COMMERCIAL APPLICATORS.
   (a)   All commercial applicators of fertilizer making fertilizer
applications within the town shall abide by and successfully complete training
and continuing education requirements in the “Florida-Friendly Best Management
Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries,” offered
by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection through the University of
Florida IFAS “Florida-Friendly Landscapes” program, by not later than August
16, 2010.
   (b)   All businesses applying fertilizer to turf and/or landscape plants
(including but not limited to residential lawns, golf courses, commercial
properties, and multi-family and condominium properties) must ensure that at
least one employee has an appropriate “Florida- Friendly Best Management
Practices for Protection of Water Resources by the Green Industries” training
certificate by not later than August 16, 2010 (approximately 180 days after the
effective date of this article).
(Ord. 2010-03, adopted 4-21-10)
CHAPTER 30: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
30-1   Traffic engineer; appointment powers
   
30-2   Traffic policies
   30-3 – 30-19   Reserved
Article II. Traffic Rules
   
30-20   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
30-21   Speed limits
   
30-22   Weight capacity limits
   30-23 – 30-39   Reserved
Article III. Parking Regulations
   
30-40   Reserved
   
30-41   Definitions
   
30-42   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain areas or places
   
30-43   Handicapped parking
   
30-44   Parking citations
   
30-45   Reserved
   
30-46   Vehicle owner's liability for parking violations
   
30-47   Disposition of collected parking fines
   
30-48   Authority to tow and impound vehicles
   30-49 – 30-99   Reserved
Article IV. Low-Speed Vehicles
   
30-100   Definitions
   
30-101   Authorized use and operation of low-speed vehicles
   
30-102   Permit; revocation
   
30-103   Waiver of claims
   
30-104   Permit application; registration; decal
   
30-105   Inspection; required equipment
   
30-106   Prohibitions
   
30-107   Parking
   
30-108   Enforcement
   
30-109   Reciprocity with the Town of Indialantic
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30-1. TRAFFIC ENGINEER; APPOINTMENT; POWERS.
   (a)   Appointment. The Town Manager shall be empowered to appoint an
individual to function as a Traffic Engineer. Any employee or individual
contracting with the town or the Town Manager may be designated to serve in
this position. Any person appointed to this position need not be a Florida
licensed professional engineer.
   (b)   Powers. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the Traffic
Engineer shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To regulate the operation or parking of vehicles within the town by
placement of proper signs or markers, indicating prohibited or limited parking,
restricted speed areas, one-way streets, through or arterial streets, stop
streets, “U” turns, play streets, school zones, hospital zones, loading and
unloading zones and other signs or markers indicating the place and manner of
operating or parking vehicles within the town;
      (2)   To designate bus stops and taxicab stands and to erect signs
prohibiting the parking of vehicles other than buses and taxicabs in such
stands;
      (3)   To designate truck routes and to regulate the parking of vehicles
of various sizes and weights;
      (4)   To cause all necessary signs or markers to be erected or placed on
any street when the Traffic Engineer deems such action necessary;
      (5)   To mark off traffic lines on streets and parts of streets
indicating and directing the flow of traffic when, in the Traffic Engineer's
judgement, such action is necessary.
   (c)   The existence of such signs or markers at any place within the town
shall be prima facie evidence that such signs or markers were erected or placed
by and at the direction of the Traffic Engineer and in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 7-19-00)
§ 30-2. TRAFFIC POLICIES.
   (a)   The Town Commission is authorized from time to time to adopt traffic
management policies by resolution. Said policies shall not be inconsistent with
Florida Statutes, may guide the closure or modification of traffic flow on
public streets, shall provide for a “petition process” by which residents,
property and business owners, and affected citizens, may request traffic
calming, modification, or other improvements. All traffic related decisions
made shall at a minimum consider the following factors: traffic volume; traffic
speed; cost; effect on residents and property and business owners of the town;
and the impact on traffic flowing through the town.
   (b)   The Traffic Engineer shall consider the town's traffic management
policies, coordinate with professional engineers, the Police Chief, and county
and state transportation authorities, as appropriate, in making any decision
pursuant to §
30-1. No decision of the Traffic Engineer shall be made inconsistent with the
town's comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 7-19-00)
§ 30-3. – 30-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. TRAFFIC RULES
§ 30-20. BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
('75 Code, § 16-5)
§ 30-21. SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   The maximum speed within the town shall be 30 miles per hour. With
respect to residential districts, the town may set a maximum speed limit of 25
miles per hour after investigation determines that such a limit is reasonable.
However, the town may set speed zones altering such speed, both as to maximum,
not to exceed 55 miles per hour, and minimum, after an investigation determines
such a change is reasonable and in conformity with criteria promulgated by the
Florida Department of Transportation, except that no changes shall be made on
state highways or connecting links or extensions thereof; which shall be
changed only by the Florida Department of Transportation.
   (b)   All speed zones shall be posted with clearly legible signs. No change
in speeds from 30 miles per hour shall take effect until the zone is so posted
by the town. All signs which limit or establish speed limits, maximum and
minimum, shall be so placed and so painted as to be plainly visible and legible
in daylight or in darkness when illuminated by headlights.
(§ 316.189, Fla. Stat.) ('75 Code, § 16-7)
§ 30-22. WEIGHT CAPACITY LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle having a gross weight capacity of
more than that which is set forth below on any of the following streets, except
when said vehicle is making a delivery or pick-up at a residence fronting on
one of these roads; or when said vehicle is leaving or returning to a residence
fronting on one of these roads when the owner of the vehicle is also the owner
of the residence. When the prohibited vehicle is using these roads under the
above two exceptions, then said vehicle shall enter or exit said roads at the
nearest intersection to the residence in question.
 
Street                       Weight Limit (Lbs.) Ord. No.Passage Date
Oak Street (Not Highway A1A) 10,000              81-22-24-81
Riverside Drive              10,000              81-22-24-81
 
('75 Code, § 16-10) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   See § 316.555, Fla. Stat.
§ 30-23. – 30-39. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 30-40. RESERVED.
§ 30-41. DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. The word "County" shall mean Brevard County, Florida.
   COURT CLERK. The term "Court Clerk" shall refer to the Clerk of the Circuit
and County Courts of Brevard County.
   CROSSWALK. A crosswalk is:
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway, measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
a traversable roadway; or
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DESIGNATED PARKING SPACE. A "designated parking space" shall mean any
parking space posted within a sign bearing the internationally accepted
wheelchair symbol and the caption "PARKING BY DISABLED PERMIT ONLY" as set
forth in §
30-43.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. The words "handicapped person" shall mean any person
with permanent mobility problems who has been issued an exemption entitlement
parking permit or license plate pursuant to Sections 316.1958, 320.084,
320.0842, 320.0843, 320.0845, or 320.0848, Florida Statutes.
   INTERSECTION. The word "intersection" shall mean:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curblines; or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles;
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. The words "motor vehicle" or "vehicle" shall mean
any vehicle which is self-propelled by any means whatsoever.
   OFFICIAL SIGNS. The words "official signs" shall mean any sign which is
placed or erected by the authority of a public body having jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating traffic or parking.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. The words "official traffic control
devices" shall mean all signs, signals, markings, and devices, not inconsistent
with this article, placed or erected by authority of a public body or official
having jurisdiction for the purposes of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OWNER. The word "owner" shall mean a person who holds the legal title of a
vehicle, or, in the event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the
conditional sale or lease thereof, with the right of purchase upon performance
of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of
possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, to possession, then such
conditional vendee, or lessee, or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner, for the
purpose of this article.
   PARK or PAVING. The words "park" or "parking" shall mean the standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers as may
be permitted under this article.
   PEDESTRIAN. The word "pedestrian" shall mean any person on foot.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY/PEDWAY. A transportation facility designed for use by
pedestrians which may be used by other forms of non-motorized transportation.
   PERSON. The word "person" shall mean any natural person, firm, co-
partnership, association, corporation, or other legal entity.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. The words "private road" or "driveway" shall mean
any privately owned way or place used for vehicular travel by the owner and
those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by other
persons.
   PUBLIC PARKING SPACE. The words "public parking space" shall mean any
parking space on private property which the owner, lessee, or person in control
of such property provides for use by members of the public other than employees
of such owner, lessee, or person, including, but not limited to, parking spaces
at shopping centers, stores, offices, motels, and restaurants.
   SAFETY ZONE. The words "safety zone" shall mean the area or space officially
set apart within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrian and protected or
so marked by adequate signs or authorized pavement markings as to be plainly
visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The word "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between
the curbline, or the lateral line, of a roadway and the adjacent property
lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The words "stand" or "standing" shall mean the halting of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily, for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers, as may be
permitted by this article.
   STOP or STOPPING. The words "stop" or "stopping" shall mean when prohibited,
any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the
directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The words "street" or "highway" shall mean the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way or place of whatever nature when
any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
traffic.
   TRAFFIC. The word "traffic" shall mean pedestrians, ridden or herded
animals, and vehicles, and other conveyances either singly or together while
using any street or highway for purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC HEARING OFFICER. The term "traffic hearing officer" shall refer to a
civil traffic infraction hearing officer as provided for pursuant to Sections
318.30 et seq., Florida Statutes, and established Sections 106-96 and 106-97 et
seq, Brevard County Code.
   (b)   The definitions set forth in Section 316.003, Florida Statutes, are
hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
('75 Code, § 16-26.2) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Town Ord. 80-10,
passed 5-27-80; Town Ord. 94-07, passed 1-18-95; Town Ord. 95-02, passed 7-19-
95)
§ 30-42. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS OR PLACES.
   (a)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, parking enforcement
specialist, other law enforcement officer, or official traffic-control device,
no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      (1)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Florida Department of Transportation, Brevard County Public Works Division, or
Town Public Works Department, indicates a different length by signs or
markings;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   On a pedestrian/way pedway path;
      (8)   At any place where official traffic-control devices prohibit
stopping; or
      (9)   In such manner as to block a traffic lane or interfere with the
orderly flow of traffic so as to constitute a hazard to the passage of
emergency vehicles.
   (b)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, parking enforcement
specialist, other law enforcement officer, or official traffic-control device,
no person shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (4)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly sign-posted);
      (6)   On a bicycle lane; or
      (7)   At any place where official traffic-control devices prohibit
standing or parking.
   (c)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, parking enforcement
specialist, other law enforcement officer, or official traffic-control device,
no person shall park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading merchandise
or passengers:
      (1)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict parking or
in excess of time periods authorized by such signs; or
      (2)   Along or adjacent to any curb painted red or yellow across the
delineated boundaries of a public parking place.
      (3)   In a zone designated by official signs as a "loading" zone.
   (d)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is unlawful.
   (e)   A law enforcement officer or parking enforcement specialist who
discovers a vehicle parked in violation of this section may:
      (1)   Issue a ticket in the form used by the town to the driver; or
      (2)   If the vehicle is unattended, attach such ticket to the vehicle in
a conspicuous place, except that the uniform traffic citation prepared by the
Florida Department of Transportation pursuant to Section 316.650, Florida
Statutes, may not be issued by being attached to an unattended vehicle.
   (f)   The uniform traffic citation prepared by the Florida Department of
Transportation pursuant to Section 316.650, Florida Statutes, may not be issued
for violation of any provision of this Section
30-42.
(§ 316.1945, Fla. Stat.) ('75 Code, § 16-26.3) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-
79; Town Ord. 80-10, passed 5-27-80; Town Ord. 94-07, passed 1-18-95)
§ 30-43. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (a)   Parking spaces provided by the town for certain disabled persons.
      (1)   All onstreet parking and all publicly owned and operated parking
facilities over which the town has jurisdiction must be provided by the town
with a minimum number of specially designed and marked motor vehicle parking
spaces for the exclusive use of those severely physically disabled individuals
who have permanent mobility problems that substantially impair their ability to
ambulate and who have been issued a disabled parking permit pursuant to the
provisions of division (d) of this section or of Section 320.0848, Florida
Statutes. The amount of parking spaces to be provided, and the specific
circumstances in which the parking shall be provided is, as set forth in
division (a)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The following minimum number of such parking spaces shall be
provided:
         (A)   For publicly maintained and operated parking facilities intended
for public use, the number of parking spaces for disabled persons as set forth
in the following table:
   Required Number of       Total Parking
   Accessible Spaces         in Lot
   Up to 25         1
   26 to 50         2
   51 to 75         3
   76 to 100         4
   101 to 150         5
   151 to 200         6
   201 to 300         7
   301 to 400         8
   401 to 500         9
   501 to 1,000         2% of total
   Over 1,000         20 plus 1 for each 100 over1,000
However, when parking spaces are leased at such publicly maintained and
operated parking facilities, the number of parking spaces for disabled persons
shall be increased or decreased on demonstrated and documented need. A minimum
of four parking spaces for disabled persons shall be provided at a physical
restoration rehabilitation center or a hospital.
         (B)   One space shall be provided for each 150 metered onstreet
parking spaces.
         (C)   One space in the immediate vicinity of a building which houses a
governmental entity, if no parking is provided on the premises of the building.
      (3)   Such parking spaces shall be designed and located as follows:
         (A)   All spaces shall have accessible thereto a curb-ramp or curb-
cut, when necessary to allow access to the building served and shall be located
so that users will not be compelled to wheel behind parked vehicles.
         (B)   Diagonal or perpendicular parking spaces shall be a minimum of
12 feet wide.
         (C)   Parallel parking spaces shall be located either at the beginning
or end of a block or adjacent to alley entrances. Curbs adjacent to such spaces
shall be of a height which will not interfere with the opening and closing of
motor vehicle doors.
      (4)   Each such parking space shall be prominently outlined with paint
and posted with a permanent above-grade sign of a color and design approved by
the Florida Department of Transportation, bearing the international symbol of
accessibility and the caption “PARKING BY DISABLED PERMIT ONLY.”
      (5)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle
within any such specially designated and marked parking space provided in
accordance with this section, unless such vehicle displays a disabled parking
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of division (d) of this section or of
Section 320.0848, Florida Statutes, and such vehicle is transporting a person
eligible for the disabled parking permit.
      (6)   Whenever a law enforcement officer or a parking enforcement
specialist finds a vehicle parked in violation of this division, that officer
shall enforce the provisions of sub-section (a)(5). However, any person who is
chauffeuring a handicapped person shall be allowed, without need for an
identification parking permit, to momentarily park in any such designated
parking space for the purpose of loading or unloading such handicapped person.
No penalty shall be imposed upon the driver for such momentary parking. (§
316.1955, Fla. Stat.)
   (b)   Parking spaces provided by private property owners for certain
handicapped persons.
      (1)   Any business, firm or other person licensed to do business with the
public may provide specially designed and marked motor vehicle parking spaces
for the exclusive use of physically disabled persons who have been issued
disabled parking permits pursuant to the provisions of division (d) of this
section or of Sections 316.1958 or 320.0848, Florida Statutes. The minimum
number of such parking spaces shall be as provided in division (a)(2)(A) above.
      (2)   Each such parking space shall conform to the requirements of
division (a)(3) above and shall be posted and maintained with a permanent,
above-grade sign bearing the international symbol of accessibility or the
caption “PARKING BY DISABLED PERMIT ONLY,” or bearing both such symbol and
caption. All handicapped parking spaces must be signed and marked in accordance
with the standards adopted by the Department of Transportation.
      (3)   Any person who parks a vehicle in any parking space is guilty of a
traffic infraction, punishable as provided in §
30-43.1, unless such vehicle displays a handicapped person disabled parking
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of division (d) of this section or of
Sections 316.1958, 320.084, 320.0842, 320.0843, 320.0845, or 320.0848, Florida
Statutes, and such vehicle is transporting a person eligible for such parking
permit. However, any person who is chauffeuring a handicapped person shall be
allowed, without need for an identification parking permit, momentary parking
in any such designated parking space for the purpose of loading or unloading
such handicapped person. No penalty shall be imposed upon the driver for such
momentary parking.
      (4)   Any law enforcement officer or parking enforcement specialist shall
enforce the provisions of division (b)(3) above. (§ 316.1956, Fla. Stat.)
   (c)   Owner assumed to be responsible for parking violations. Whenever
evidence shall be presented in any court of the fact that any automobile,
truck, or other vehicle was found to be parked in a properly designated
handicapped parking space in violation of the provisions of division (a) or (b)
of this section, it shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle was parked
and left in the space by the person, firm, or corporation in whose name the
vehicle is registered and licensed according to the records of the Florida
Division of Motor Vehicles. (§ 316.1957, Fla. Stat.)
   (d)   Out-of-state vehicles bearing handicapped identification. Motor
vehicles displaying a special license plate or parking permit issued to a
handicapped person by any other state or district subject to the laws of the
United States shall be recognized as a valid license plate or permit, allowing
such vehicle the special parking privileges allowed pursuant to the provisions
of division (a) or (b) of this section, provided such other state or district
grants reciprocal recognition for handicapped residents of this state. (§
316.1958, Fla. Stat.)
   (e)   Handicapped parking enforcement. The provisions of this section shall
be enforced by the town enforcement authorities, whether on public or private
property, in the same manner as is used to enforce other parking laws and
ordinances of this town. (§ 316.1959, Fla. Stat.)
   (f)   Exemption of vehicles transporting certain disabled persons from
payment of parking fees and penalties. The town shall not exact any fee for
parking on the public streets or highways or in any metered parking space from
the driver of a vehicle which displays a parking permit issued pursuant to
Section 320.0848, Florida Statutes, or a license plate issued pursuant to
Sections 320.084 or 320.0842, Florida Statutes, if such vehicle is transporting
a person eligible for such parking permit or license plate; nor shall the
driver of such vehicle transporting such person be penalized for parking,
except in clearly defined bus loading zones, fire zones, or in areas posted as
“No Parking” zones.
('75 Code, § 16-26.4) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Town Ord. 80-10,
passed 5-27-80; Town Ord. 94-07, passed 1-18-95)
§ 30-43.1 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF CERTAIN TOWN PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Any person cited for a violation of Sections
30-42 and
30-43(a)(5), (b)(3) of this code, shall be deemed to be charged with a
noncriminal infraction and shall be assessed a civil penalty according to the
following schedule: $35 for a violation of any of the offenses in Section
30-42(a), (b) and (c); and $100 for a violation of any offense in Section
30-43(a)(5) and (b)(3). With regard to Sections
30-42 and 40-43(a)(5), (b)(3), this sub-section shall supersede §1-99, Town
Code.
   (b)   The town hereby adopts the civil traffic infraction hearing officer
program as provided for and established by Section 318.30 et seq., Florida
Statutes, and Sections 106-96 through 106-100, Brevard County Code, all as
amended from time to time. Every case involving a violation of Sections
30-42 through 30-43.1, Town Code, shall be referred to the civil infraction
hearing officer program as established by Sections 106-96 through 106-100,
Brevard County Code. However, upon request of the defendant, contained in a
notice of appearance or a written plea, the case shall be assigned to a county
court judge.
   (c)   Each day that violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense. For parking in excess of the time authorized in a public parking
space, each succeeding equal time period beyond that authorized as the maximum
time period for the parking place shall constitute a separate offense.
   (d)   The amount of the penalty specified in this section shall be doubled
if payment is not received by the court clerk prior to notice being mailed to
the registered owner by certified mail pursuant to Section
30-44(f).
(Town Ord. 94-07, passed 1-18-95; Town Ord. 95-02, passed 7-19-95; Town Ord.
2008-06, adopted 7-16-08)
§ 30-44. PARKING CITATIONS.
   (a)   When any police officer or parking enforcement specialist finds a
vehicle in violation of the provisions of this article or signs erected in
accordance with the provisions of this article, the officer or parking
enforcement specialist shall issue a parking citation by attaching the citation
to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. This parking citation shall be on a
prenumbered form in such format as required and approved by the Court Clerk and
shall contain language providing notice of the following:
      (1)   The type of violation and amount of penalty imposed;
      (2)   The procedures to be followed in either paying the penalty or
electing not to pay the penalty and requesting a hearing before a traffic
hearing officer or a county court judge concerning the parking violation;
      (3)   The penalty for failure to comply with directions contained in the
citation;
      (4)   Date, time and location of violation;
      (5)   Vehicle tag number, decal number, model and color;
      (6)   Name and address of the registered owner;
      (7)   Owner's date of birth;
      (8)   Name and signature of issuing officer or parking enforcement
specialist;
      (9)   Statement as to effect of election to request hearing and failure
to comply with citation; and
      (10)   Blanks for name and mailing address of person receiving citation.
   (b)   The police officer or parking enforcement specialist shall determine
the registered owner of the vehicle for which a citation was issued and shall
complete the citation form. The original copy of the citation form shall be
forwarded to the Court Clerk when completed for processing pursuant to
subsection (c).
('75 Code, § 16-26.7)
   (c)   The payment or requests for hearings in response to municipal
citations shall be received and processed by the Court Clerk. Any person issued
a town parking citation pursuant to sub-section (a) above shall answer the
citation by either of the following procedures within ten (10) days after the
date of issuance of the citation:
      (1)   Payment of the penalty indicated on the citation may be remitted to
the Court Clerk, pursuant to the directions on such citation; or
      (2)   A hearing may be requested by the person receiving such citation or
the registered owner of the cited vehicle for the purpose of presenting
evidence before a traffic hearing officer or county court judge concerning a
parking violation. Any person requesting a hearing shall execute a statement on
a form prepared by the Court Clerk indicating said person's willingness to
appear at such a hearing at a time and place specified thereon. Any person who
requests a hearing and does not appear in accordance with the statement shall
be subject to contempt proceedings or to other such penalties as the court may,
in its discretion, impose to require compliance with this chapter.
   (d)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 316.1967 and 318.325, Florida
Statutes, an election to request a hearing constitutes a waiver of the right to
pay the civil penalty indicated on the parking citation, and a traffic hearing
officer or a county court judge, after the hearing, may impose a fine not to
exceed $100, plus court costs, for each parking violation.
   (e)   Upon receipt of a completed parking citation submitted by a law
enforcement officer or parking enforcement specialist pursuant to subsection
(a), the Court Clerk shall notify the registered owner first listed on such
citation of its issuance if there has been no response to the citation pursuant
to subsection (c). Such notice shall be sent by regular mail and shall inform
the registered owner concerning the nature and location of the parking
violation in direct compliance with either of the alternatives specified in
sub-section (c) within 14 days after the date the notice is mailed according to
the records maintained by the Court Clerk. The notice shall also contain a
statement informing the registered owner of the increased penalty required
pursuant to sub-section (d).
   (f)   If payment of the civil penalty is not received or if a hearing is not
requested within the 14-day period after the notice described in sub-section
(e) is mailed and such notice is not returned as undeliverable by the U.S.
Postal Service, the Court Clerk shall send a similar notice to the owner by
certified mail requesting compliance with either of the alternatives specified
in sub-section (c) within 14 days after the date the notice is mailed,
according to the records maintained by the Court Clerk. The notice shall also
contain a statement informing the registered owner of the increased penalty
required pursuant to sub-section (d).
   (g)   If the Court Clerk receives proof of delivery of the notice mailed by
certified mail pursuant to sub-section (e), and payment of the penalty is not
received, or a hearing requested, within the 14-day period specified therein,
the Court Clerk shall cause the registered owner first listed on the parking
citation to be served in accordance with the Florida Rules of Civil Procedure
with a court order requiring payment or attendance at a hearing at a time and
place specified in such order. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 316.1967
and 318.325, Florida Statutes, a traffic hearing officer or a county court
judge, after the hearing, shall make a determination as to whether a parking
violation has been committed and may impose a fine not to exceed $100, plus
court costs. Any person upon which service is obtained pursuant to this
section, who does not appear at a hearing as directed by the court order shall
be subject to contempt proceedings or to such other penalties as the court may,
in its discretion, impose to require compliance with the order.
('75 Code, § 16-26.8) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Amending County Ord.
80-09, passed 3-20-80; Town Ord. 80-10, passed 5-27-80; Town Ord. 94-07, passed
1-18-95; Town Ord. 95-02, passed 7-19-95)
§ 30-45. RESERVED.
§ 30-46. VEHICLE OWNER'S LIABILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   The owner of a vehicle is responsible and liable for payment of any
parking ticket violation, unless the owner can furnish evidence that the
vehicle was, at the time of the parking violation, in the care, custody or
control of another person. In such instances, the owner of the vehicle is
required, within a reasonable time after notification of the parking violation,
to furnish to the appropriate law enforcement authorities the name and address
of the person or company who leased, rented or otherwise had the care, custody
or control of the vehicle. The owner of a vehicle is not responsible for
parking ticket violations if the vehicle invoiced was, at the time, stolen or
in the care, custody or control of some person who did not have permission of
the owner to use the vehicle.
   (b)   At any hearing of the case involving illegal parking in which the
owner of the vehicle is being tried under this chapter, it shall be sufficient
evidence upon which the court may rely to establish the name of the registered
owner of such vehicle if a Deputy Sheriff; police officer or parking
enforcement specialist shall state under oath that he has made inquiry of the
Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles or Office of the
Brevard County Tax Collector and has been advised by them of the identity of
such registered owner. Otherwise, the court may defer the final determination
of such case until a certified record or appropriate certificate can be
obtained from the office of the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor
Vehicles or the Brevard County Tax Collectors Office indicating the registered
owner of the vehicle on the date in question.
('75 Code, § 16-26.10) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Town Ord. 80-10,
passed 5-27-80)
§ 30-47. DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED PARKING FINES.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all money received by
the Court Clerk or the County Court as a result of a fine for a parking
citation issued by the town shall be paid to the town.
   (b)   In those instances where payment is remitted to the Court Clerk for a
county or town parking citation prior to mailing of notice to the registered
owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, pursuant to §
30-44(f), the Court Clerk shall deduct as costs $2 from the penalty imposed by
such citation. In those instances where payment is not remitted to the Court
Clerk for a town parking citation prior to notice being mailed to the
registered owner by certified mail, pursuant to §§
30-44(f), the Court Clerk shall deduct as costs $5 from the penalty imposed. In
those instances where a hearing is held, court costs of up to $10 may be
assessed in addition to the penalty imposed.
('75 Code, § 16-26.11) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Amending County Ord.
80-09, passed 3-20-80; Town Ord. 80-10, passed 5-27-80; Town Ord. 94-07, passed
1-18-95)
§ 30-48. AUTHORITY TO TOW AND IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (a)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove motor
vehicles from any street in the town to the nearest garage or other place of
safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or the
town, under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When a vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic or the person in charge of the motor vehicle is by
reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
exercise control over the motor vehicle;
      (2)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of
traffic;
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street continuously for
more than 24 hours and appears to be abandoned;
      (4)   When any vehicle is parked in a place where official signs or
markings prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (5)   When the driver of any vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department and his motor vehicle would thereby be left unattended upon a
street; or
      (6)   When removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of a fire, flood, storm, or other emergency.
   (b)   No motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be released
until the towing fee and all storage charges have been paid by the owner of the
motor vehicle or his agent.
(`75 Code, §§ 16-42 – 16-43) (Ord. passed 1-25-72)
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall be supplementary to and shall not
in any way preclude the county or this town from utilizing the procedures
specified in Chapters 713 and 715, Florida Statutes, governing the towing,
storage, and liens for the removal and storage of motor vehicles when such
vehicles are parked on real property without the property owner's consent.
(`75 Code, § 16-26.12) (County Ord. 79-31, passed 11-8-79; Town Ord. 80-10,
passed 5-27-80)
§§ 30-49. – 30-99. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
§ 30-100. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or required a different meaning.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE (LSV). Any four-wheeled vehicle whose top speed is greater
than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour, including but
not limited to, neighborhood electric vehicles. (See Fla. Stat. § 320.01(41)).
   PERMIT/REGISTRATION. The official authorization issued by the Town Police
Department pursuant to this article designating that a low-speed vehicle meets
the requirements of this Code.
   PROHIBITED STREETS. Highway AlA within the jurisdictional limits of the Town
south of First Avenue.
   STREETS. All paved surfaces (excluding sidewalks) of streets and roads
within the jurisdictional limits of the Town that are not prohibited streets.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-101. AUTHORIZED USE AND OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Drivers licensed to drive motor vehicles may operate low-speed
vehicles that have been issued permits by the Town on any street within the
town in compliance with this article and all statutes, regulations and
ordinances governing traffic control, including traffic control devices and the
operation, stopping and parking of vehicles. Such vehicles may not be operated
within the right-of-way of any prohibited street. Further, the authorization
granted by this article to operate low-speed vehicles on the streets of the
Town does not authorize operation of such vehicles on sidewalks, bicycle paths,
swales or other stormwater facilities or structures or within or on any park in
the Town.
   (b)   The prohibition of operating a low-speed vehicle on prohibited streets
does not prohibit the operation of a low-speed vehicle solely for the purpose
of crossing a prohibited street at vehicular intersections.
   (c)   A permit to use a low-speed vehicle issued pursuant to this article
does not allow entry onto private or semi-private property, including retail
parking lots, private roads or condominium or homeowners’ association common
areas. Access to these areas may be regulated and restricted by the owners of
such property. Further, such use does not allow entry or parking upon any
property owned by another public or quasi-public entity such as Brevard County,
and any of its departments/agencies, and the Brevard County School Board.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-102. PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The operation of a low-speed vehicle on streets shall be deemed a use
permitted by the Town which is revocable in whole or in part upon the will of
Town Commission in its legislative capacity based upon its consideration of the
general health, safety, and welfare of the public arising from such use. The
issuance of a permit or other permission for the operation of low-speed
vehicles on streets shall not limit or otherwise preclude the Town Commission
from amending this Article IV, repealing this Article IV in its entirety,
contracting or expanding the streets and prohibited streets, or changing the
designation of crossing points for prohibited streets. Any person operating a
low-speed vehicle within the Town pursuant to a permit issued by the Town shall
do so on the condition that there shall be no claim for any monetary loss or
other claim for the loss of allowed low-speed vehicle operation within the Town
or any monetary claim based upon a claim for action in reliance on the
provisions of this article. The Town Commission retains the unlimited legal
authority to revoke, amend, or otherwise legislate regarding the operation of
low-speed vehicles on Town streets without liability of any kind arising from
its legislative decisions. The issuance by the Town of a Town permit is not and
shall not be construed to be a contract between the Town and the registrant or
any operator of a low-speed vehicle. Issuance of a permit by the Town does not
authorize the operation of a low-speed vehicle in any other municipal
jurisdiction outside of the Town or area of unincorporated Brevard County,
except as to the application of reciprocity with the Town of Indialantic as
provided in §
30-109.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-103. WAIVER OF CLAIMS.
   By acceptance of a permit to register with the Town and operate a low-speed
vehicle by any authorized person, and all persons who are passengers in such
vehicle, shall be deemed to have waived any claim against the Town for its
legislative decision to allow operation of such low-speed vehicles on streets
in compliance with this article. The consideration and adoption of this article
by Town Commission is declared to be a legislative act of the Town.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-104. PERMIT APPLICATION; REGISTRATION; DECAL.
   (a)   All low-speed vehicles operating on streets shall, prior to such
operation, be registered with the Town on an annual basis as provided herein. A
registration decal provided by the Town must be visibly affixed to each
registered low-speed vehicle on the rear bumper of that vehicle. The
registration decal must be current at all times the low-speed vehicle is
operated on streets.
   (b)   Each person wishing to operate a low-speed vehicle on streets must
apply for a permit with the Police Department to operate and register that
vehicle with the Town. The application shall include the name(s) and address
(es) of the owner(s) of the low-speed vehicle, copies of current driver’s
license(s) of all persons who own and will operate the low-speed vehicle, and
proof of insurance required by Fla. Stat. §§ 316.2122 and 320.02, which
insurance must be kept in effect at all times. (See Fla. Stat, § 320.02(5)).
   (c)   Each permit application shall be accompanied by a $150 permit/
registration fee which shall cover the period January 1 to December 31. Any
permit/registration issued by the Town shall include a registration fee of $100
and a permit fee of $50, and must be renewed annually for the period January 1
to December 31. The renewal permit fee shall be $50 for each year of renewal of
the same low-speed vehicle.
   (d)   The provisions of this section do not apply to low-speed vehicles with
a license plate issued by the State of Florida pursuant to Fla. Stat. §
320.0847.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-105. INSPECTION; REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Any person desiring to register a low-speed vehicle for operation
within the Town shall present the low-speed vehicle to the Police Department
for inspection regarding all required safety equipment at such place as the
Town Police Department shall designate for such inspections.
   (b)   In order for any low-speed vehicle to be registered and operate within
the Town, said vehicle must meet the following minimum safety requirements
which must be in operating order:
      (1)   Headlamps;
      (2)   Florida Department of Transportation approved windshield;
      (3)   Driver-side and interior rear-view mirrors or both driver-side and
passenger-side mirrors;
      (4)   Parking lamps;
      (5)   Front and rear turn signals meeting the minimum standards of Fla.
Stat. § 316.234(2);
      (6)   Brake lamps meeting the minimum requirements of Fla. Stat. §
316.234(1);
      (7)   Side reflex reflectors;
      (8)   Horn;
      (9)   Low-speed vehicle (LSV) triangle reflector affixed to the rear of
the vehicle;
      (10)   Seat belt for each designated seat;
      (11)   Tires meeting manufacturer’s specifications;
      (12)   Reliable steering apparatus; and
      (13)   Vehicle identification number (VIN) or manufacturer’s serial
number.
(See Fla. Stat. § 316.2122(2) and 49 C.F.R. § 571.500.)
   (c)   Upon the successful completion of an inspection performed by the Town
Police Department, and as a condition of issuance of any registration and
decal, the owner(s) must sign an acknowledgment (i) recognizing the necessity
of obtaining annual inspections/registration for any low-speed vehicle,
together with payment of an annual registration fee, (ii) receipt of a copy of
this Article IV governing low-speed vehicles; and (iii) a waiver of liability
satisfying the requirements of §
30-103.
   (d)   The provisions of subsection (a) and (c) of this section do not apply
to low-speed vehicles with a license plate issued by the State of Florida
pursuant to Fla. Stat. § 320.0847.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-106. PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a low-speed vehicle in the
Town:
   (1)   Where any of the required equipment or information set forth in § 30-
105(b) is either inoperative or missing;
   (2)   Without a current valid motor vehicle operator’s driver's license;
   (3)   Without insurance required by this article or state law. Proof of
insurance must be presented to a law enforcement officer upon request;
   (4)   On the right-of-way of any prohibited street (except to properly cross
to the other side as provided in this article), or on any sidewalk, bike path,
swale or other stormwater facilities or structures or within or on any park in
the Town;
   (5)   Without a valid registration issued by the Town or properly exhibited
registration decal issued by the Town;
   (6)   That obstructs or interferes with normal traffic flow;
   (7)   Which carries more passengers than the registered low-speed vehicle
was designed, or for which there are more passengers than there are seat belts
provided;
   (8)   Where the driver and/or any passengers are not properly using their
seat belts or fail to comply with any laws governing use of child restraint
equipment. Further, no child shall be allowed to sit in the lap of the driver
or any passenger. The driver and all passengers must remain seated with their
seatbelts properly fastened at all times the low-speed vehicle is in motion,
and no parts of the body of any occupant of the low-speed vehicle may extend
outside the vehicle;
   (9)   In violation of any state traffic law or regulation or Town Code
provision of the Town applicable to the operation of motor vehicles; or
   (10)   On any street where the posted speed limit is greater than 3 5 miles
per hour.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-107. PARKING.
   Low-speed vehicles shall comply with all vehicular parking regulations of
the Town.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-108. ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Violations of this article shall be enforced by the Police Department
pursuant to Fla. Stat. Ch. 316 and Fla. Sta. Ch. 320, and applicable provisions
of the Town Code.
   (b)   In addition to enforcement pursuant to subsection (a) above, any
person operating a low-speed vehicle without a proper registration or decal
issued by the Town shall be fined $100 for the first violation, $ 150 for the
second violation and $200 for the third and each subsequent violation.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
§ 30-109. RECIPROCITY WITH THE TOWN OF INDIALANTIC.
   (a)   Any low-speed vehicle authorized to operate within the Town of
Indialantic pursuant to Article IV of Chapter 32 of the Town of Indialantic
Code of Ordinances may operate with the Town of Melbourne Beach.
   (b)   Any low-speed vehicle authorized to operate within the Town of
Melbourne Beach pursuant to this article, may operate within the Town of
Indialantic if authorized under Article IV of Chapter 32 of the Town of
Indialantic Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-01, adopted 7-20-22)
CHAPTER 35: ANIMALS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
35-01   Town designated as bird sanctuary
   
35-02   Limitation on number of animals kept
   35-03 – 35-14   Reserved
Article II. County Animal Control Regulations
   
35-15   Adoption of county regulations
   
35-16   Copy on file in office of Town Clerk
   
35-17   Authority of county impounding officers
   
35-18   Authority of Town police officers
   35-19 – 30-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35-01. TOWN DESIGNATED AS BIRD SANCTUARY.
   All the land and water within and embracing the corporate limits of the town
is hereby declared to be a bird sanctuary. It shall be unlawful for any person
to shoot, trap, ensnare, or to wound, maim, or kill in any way whatsoever, any
birds within the corporate limits of the town, vehicle accidents excepted.
(`75 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. passed 4-23-65; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-70)
§ 35-02. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS KEPT.
   (a)   As utilized in this section, the terms LOT and STRUCTURE shall be
defined as set forth in Chapter 1A, Appendix A of this code.
   (b)   No person shall keep or maintain on any lot, within any living unit,
or in connection with any building or structure, five or more cats, dogs or
combination thereof. No dogs or cats shall be kept or maintained on vacant
property or on any vacant lot. Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to permit the use of land, a structure, or a building as a dog kennel
or veterinarian clinic, unless said land, structure or building is located in a
zoning classification in which a dog kennel or veterinarian clinic has been
approved by the Town Commission.
(Ord. 97-02, passed 6-18-97)
§§ 35-03. – 35-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
§ 35-15. ADOPTION OF COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Chapter 4, as amended from time to time, of the Code of Ordinances of
Brevard County, regarding animal control, is adopted in full and incorporated
into the code of ordinances of the town as if fully set forth herein.
   (b)   The county ordinance shall be subject to:
      (1)   The provisions of this article; and
      (2)   Any acts, requirements, or responsibilities specified to be
necessary within the county limits shall also be interpreted as to be required
within the limits of the town.
   (c)   Amendments. The most current edition of the Code of Ordinances of
Brevard County, adopted in division (a) of this section, is hereby amended in
the following respects:
   “Section 4-30. Animals to be on Leash When in Parks and on Beaches” shall be
amended to read: “Animals Prohibited in Parks and on Beaches.
   No domestic animal shall enter into or on any public park or beach in the
Town of Melbourne Beach. Any domestic animal found in a park or on a beach
shall be deemed to be committing an act in violation of this ordinance and the
owner thereof shall be punished as provided for in section 4-81 of this
ordinance (No. 77-49). No provision shall be made prohibiting dogs trained to
assist or aid disabled or handicapped persons when such dogs are actually being
used to assist or aid such persons from any park or beach. A dog while in use
by a law enforcement officer or agency is exempt from this section. Also exempt
from this section are animals displayed at special event functions conducted by
organizations wherein animals are temporarily paraded or displayed and which
the Town Commission determines that such events provide a recreational,
educational or entertainment benefit and purpose for the general public. Such
events are limited to five events a year between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. and the organization that conducts or sponsors such events must obtain
a special events permit and meet all requirements of Chapter 52, Special
Events, and Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
('75 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 78-3, passed 2-14-78; Am. Ord. 78-13, passed 10-10-78;
Am. Ord. 2006-02, adopted 3-15-06)
   (d)   Animals are not permitted to be off the owner’s property unless on a
leash and under control.
§ 35-16. COPY ON FILE IN OFFICE OF TOWN CLERK.
   A copy of the animal control ordinance adopted by §
35-15 shall at all times be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(75 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. passed 4-23-65; Am. Ord. passed - -70)
§ 35-17. AUTHORITY OF COUNTY IMPOUNDING OFFICERS.
   The county impounding officers, as the same may be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners, are authorized to act as such officers and to perform the
duties required by them within the corporate limits of the town to the same
extent and in the same manner as the same may serve in the unincorporated areas
of the county.
('75 Code, § 4-4) (Ord. passed 4-23-65; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-70)
§ 35-18. AUTHORITY OF TOWN POLICE OFFICERS.
   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the town citizens, the police
officers of the town shall have the same power as do county impounding
officers.
('75 Code, § 4-5) (Ord. passed 4-23-65; Am. Ord. passed 11-10-70)
§§ 35-19. – 35-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 40: BEACHES AND WATERWAYS
Section
Article I. Beaches
   
40-1   Driving on beaches
   
40-2   Littering of beaches
   
40-3   Walking on dunes
   
40-4   Dressing and undressing in improper places
   40-5 – 40-19   Reserved
Article II. Sea Turtles
   
40-20   Definitions
   
40-21   Purpose
   
40-22   New development
   
40-23   Exemptions for new development
   
40-24   Lighting of existing structures
   
40-25   Publicly-owned lighting
   40-26 – 40-29   Reserved
Article III. Boats, Docks and Waterways
   
40-30   Speed of boats
   
40-31   Use of casting nets and similar devices in vicinity of municipal pier
   
40-32   Vehicles prohibited on municipal pier
   
40-33   Taking or attempted taking of fish from certain salt-water residential
canals
   40-34 – 40-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. BEACHES
§ 40-1. DRIVING ON BEACHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or control any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, scooter, powered sand sled or similar vehicle on any beach
or over or on any dune area within the limits of the town. This section shall
not apply to any motor vehicle, scooter, powered sand sled, or similar vehicle
lawfully used by governmental authorities or their agents in the maintenance of
the beach; used solely for emergency rescue of boaters, swimmers, sunbathers,
or other persons in distress, or used by law enforcement personnel in the
pursuit of their governmental duties. The Town Commission may issue a permit to
private individuals for periodic use of motor vehicles, motorcycles, scooters,
powered sand sleds or similar vehicles, when such use will promote the public
health, safety or welfare of the community and will result in circumstances
making it easier for the town to enforce this code or accomplish the purposes
of this code.
('75 Code, § 5-11)
§ 40-2. LITTERING OF BEACHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter any beach within the limits of
the town with any debris, trash, paper, foil, bottles, cans, refuse, garbage,
or other foreign matter.
('75 Code, § 5-12)
§ 40-3. WALKING ON DUNES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk on or across any dunes area,
unless said person walks on a government approved dune crossover or walkway.
§ 40-4. DRESSING AND UNDRESSING IN IMPROPER PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dress or undress, or change to or
from a bathing suit, from or in any vehicle or other place, other than in a
properly designated dressing room.
('75 Code, § 5-15)
§§ 40-5. – 40-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. SEA TURTLES
§ 40-20. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIFICIAL LIGHT. Any source of light emanating from a man-made device,
including but not limited to, incandescent mercury vapor, metal halide or
sodium lamps, flashlights, spotlights, street lights, vehicular lights,
construction, or security lights.
   BEACH. That area of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low water line to the place where there is a marked change in material or
physiographic form, or to the line of permanent vegetation, usually the
effective limit of storm waves.
   BUG LIGHT. Any yellow colored light bulb that is marketed as being
specifically treated in such a way so as to reduce the attraction of bugs to
the light.
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES. Any work or activity that has a material
physical effect on existing coastal conditions or natural shore and inlet
processes.
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE (CCCL). The coastal construction control
line as defined in §
1A-3, Land Development Code.
   CUMULATIVELY ILLUMINATED. Illuminated by numerous artificial light sources
that as a group illuminate any portion of the beach.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Illuminated as a result of glowing element(s), lamp
(s), globe(s), or reflector(s) or an artificial light source which is visible
to an observer on the beach.
   DUNE. A mound or ridge of loose sediments, usually sand-sized, lying
landward of the beach, and deposited by natural or artificial means.
   FLOODLIGHT. A reflector type light fixture which is attached directly to a
building and which is unshielded.
   FRONTAL DUNE. The first natural or manmade mound or bluff of sand which is
located landward of  the beach and which has sufficient vegetation, height,
continuity, and configuration to offer protective value.
   GROUND-LEVEL BARRIER. Any vegetation, natural feature or artificial
structure rising from the ground which prevents beachfront lighting from
shining directly onto the beach-dune system.
   HATCHLING. Any species of marine turtle, within or outside of a nest, that
has recently hatched from an egg.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Illumination as a result of the glowing element(s),
lamp(s), globe(s) or reflector(s) of an artificial light source which is not
visible to an observer on the beach.
   LOW PROFILE LUMINAIRE. A light fixture set on a base which raises the source
of the light no higher than 48 inches off the ground and designed in such a way
that light is directed downward from a hooded light source.
   MARINE TURTLE. Any marine-dwelling reptile of the families Cheloniidae or
Dermochelyidae found in state waters or using the beach as nesting habitat,
including the species: Caretta (loggerhead), Chelonia mydas (green),
Dermochelys coriacea (leatherback), Eretmochelys imbricata, (hawksbill), and
Lepidochelys kempi (Kemp's ridley). For the purposes of this article, marine
turtle is synonymous with sea turtle.
   NEST. An area where marine turtle eggs have been naturally deposited or
subsequently relocated.
   NESTING SEASON. The period of time from May 1 through October 31 of each
year.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. New construction and remodeling of existing structures when
such remodeling includes the alteration of exterior lighting.
   NIGHTTIME. For the purposes of this chapter shall be from 9:00 p.m. until 5:
00 a.m. daily.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint venture, partnership,
estate, trust, syndicate, fiduciary, corporation, group or any unit of federal,
state, county or municipal government.
   POLE LIGHTING. A light fixture set on a base or pole which raises the source
of the light higher than 48 inches off the ground.
   TINTED or FILMED GLASS. Glass so treated as to achieve an industry-approved,
inside-to-outside light transmittance value of 45% or less.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86; Am. Ord. 2019-01, adopted 7-17-19)
§ 40-21. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the threatened and endangered
sea turtles which nest along the beaches of the town by safeguarding the
hatchlings from sources of artificial light.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86)
§ 40-22. NEW DEVELOPMENT.
   (a)   The following artificial lighting standards shall apply to all new
construction:
      (1)   Exterior artificial light fixtures shall be designed and positioned
so that:
         a.   The point source of light or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not directly visible from the beach.
         b.   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not directly or indirectly
illuminated; and
         c.   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not cumulatively
illuminated.
      (2)   Exterior artificial light fixtures within direct line-of-sight of
the beach are considered appropriately designed if:
         a.   Completely shielded downlight only fixtures or recessed fixtures
having low wattage (i.e., 50 watts or less) "bug" type bulbs and nonreflective
interior surfaces are used. Other fixtures that have appropriate shields,
louvers, or cut-off features shall be used if they are in compliance with
subsection (a)( l)a., b., and c. above; and
         b.   All fixtures are mounted as low in elevation as possible through
use of low-mounted wall fixtures, low bollards and ground level fixtures.
      (3)   Floodlights, uplights or spot lights for decorative and accent
purposes that are directly visible from the beach, or which indirectly or
cumulatively illuminate the beach, shall not be used.
      (4)   Exterior lights used expressly for safety or security purposes
shall be limited to the minimum number and configuration required to achieve
their functional role(s). The use of motion detector switches that keep lights
off except when approached and that switch lights on for the minimum duration
possible are preferred.
      (5)   Only low intensity lighting shall be used in parking areas within
line-of-sight of the beach. Such lighting shall be:
         a.   Set on a base which raises the source of light no higher than 48
inches off the ground; and
         b.   Positioned or shielded so that the light is cast downward and the
source of light or any reflective surface of the light fixture is not visible
from the beach and does not directly or indirectly illuminate the beach.
      (6)   Parking areas and roadways, including any paved or unpaved areas
upon which motorized vehicles will park or operate shall be designed and
located to prevent vehicular headlights from directly or indirectly
illuminating the beach.
      (7)   Vehicular lighting, parking area lighting, and roadway lighting
shall be shielded from the beach through the use of ground-level barriers when
possible. Ground-level barriers must not interfere with the marine turtle
nesting or hatchling emergency, or cause short- or long-term damage to the
beach/dune system.
      (8)   Tinted glass shall be installed on all windows and glass doors of
single or multi- story structures with line-of-sight of the beach. Shade screen
can be substituted for this requirement.
      (9)   Use of approximately shielded low pressure sodium vapor lamps and
fixtures shall be preferred for high-intensity lighting applications such as
lighted parking areas and roadways, providing security, and similar
applications.
      (10)   Temporary lighting of construction sites during the marine turtle
nesting season shall be restricted to the minimum amount necessary and shall
incorporate all of the standards of this section. Such lighting shall not be
mounted more than 15 feet above the ground. Illumination from the lights shall
not spread beyond the boundary of the property being developed, and in no case
shall those lights illuminate the beach directly, indirectly or cumulatively.
      (11)   Upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any new
development with view of the beach, compliance with the beachfront lighting
standards set forth in this article shall be approved as follows:
         a.   Upon completion of the construction activities, the county
inspector shall conduct a site inspection which includes a night survey with
all beachfront lighting turned on.
         b.   The Town Building Inspector shall prepare and report the
inspection findings in writing identifying:
            1.   The date and time of initial inspection.
            2.   The extent of compliance with the lighting standards.
            3.   All areas of observed noncompliance, if applicable.
            4.   Any action(s) taken to remedy observed noncompliance, if
applicable.
   (b)   The Town Building Inspector, in cases where remedial action is
necessary, shall notify the owner or developer of the results of the inspection
and shall schedule a date and time for a subsequent inspection.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86; Am. Ord. 2019-01, adopted 7-17-19)
§ 40-23. EXEMPTIONS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT.
   The provisions of §
40-22 shall not apply to any structure for which a building permit has been
issued by the Building Official, prior to the effective date of this article or
any amendment hereto.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86; Am. Ord. 2019-01, adopted 7-17-19)
§ 40-24. LIGHTING OF EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (a)   The following artificial lighting standards shall apply to all
existing development:
      (1)   Existing artificial light fixtures shall be repositioned, modified
or removed so that:
         a.   The point source of light or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not directly visible from the beach;
         b.   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not directly or indirectly
illuminated; and
         c.   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not cumulatively
illuminated.
      (2)   The following measures shall be taken to reduce or eliminate the
negative effects of existing exterior artificial lighting.
         a.   Reposition fixtures so that the point source of light or any
reflective surface of the light fixture is no longer visible from the beach.
         b.   Replace fixtures having an exposed light source with fixtures
containing recessed light sources or shields.
         c.   Replace traditional light bulbs with yellow "bug" type bulbs not
exceeding 50 watts.
         d.   Replace nondirectional fixtures with directional fixtures that
point down and away from the beach.
         e.   Replace fixtures having transport or translucent coverings with
fixtures having opaque shields covering an arc of at least 180 degrees and
extending an appropriate distance below the bottom edge of the fixture on the
seaward side so that the light source or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not visible from the beach.
         f.   Replace pole lamps with low profile, low level luminaries so that
the light source or any reflective surface of the light fixture is not visible
from the beach.
         g.   Replace incandescent, fluorescent and high intensity lighting
with the lowest wattage low pressure sodium vapor light possible for the
specific application.
         h.   Plant or improve vegetation buffers between the light source and
the beach to screen light from the beach.
         i.   Construct a ground level barrier to shield light sources from the
beach when possible. Ground level barriers must not interfere with marine
turtle nesting or hatchling emergence, or cause short- or long-term damage to
the beach/dune system.
         j.   Permanently remove or permanently disable any fixture which
cannot be brought into compliance with the provisions of these standards.
         k.   Extinguish the fixture(s) after 9:00 p.m. during the period of
May 1 to October 31 of each year.
      (3)   The following measures shall be taken to reduce or eliminate the
negative effects or interior light emanating from doors and windows within
line-of- sight of the beach.
         a.   Apply window tint or film that meets the standards for tinted
glass.
         b.   Rearrange lamps and other moveable fixtures away from windows.
         c.   Use window treatment (e.g., blinds, curtains) to shield interior
lights from the beach.
         d.   Turn off unnecessary lights.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86; Am. Ord. 2019-01, adopted 7-17-19)
§ 40-25. PUBLICLY OWNED LIGHTING.
   Street lights and lighting at parks and other publicly owned beach access
areas shall be subject to the following:
   (1)   Whenever possible, street lights shall be located so that the bulk of
their illumination will travel away from the beach. These lights shall be
equipped with shades or shields that will prevent backlighting and render them
not visible from the beach.
   (2)   Lights at parks or other public beach access points shall be shielded
or shaded or shall not be utilized during the period of May 1 to October 31 of
each year.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 3-25-86)
§§ 40-26. – 40-29. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. BOATS, DOCKS AND WATERWAYS
§ 40-30. SPEED OF BOATS.
   No boat or vessel shall be operated upon any waterways in the town at a rate
of speed which causes waves to damage docks, wharves, seawalls, or boats moored
or tied to docks or wharves along such waterways. In no event shall any boat
operating on the waterways in the town exceed a speed of 5 mph.
('75 Code, § 8-1)
§ 40-31. USE OF CASTING NETS AND SIMILAR DEVICES IN VICINITY OF MUNICIPAL PIER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate a casting net or
similar device or instrument off, upon or from that portion of the municipal
pier west of the 400 foot mark from the eastern terminus of the pier, located
as a westerly extension of Ocean Avenue.
('75 Code, § 8-2) (Ord. passed 7-8-69)
§ 40-32. VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON MUNICIPAL PIER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate or ride any type of
vehicle upon or from the municipal pier located as a westerly extension of
Ocean Avenue.
('75 Code, § 8-4) (Ord. passed 11-15-63; Am. Ord. passed 7-8-69)
§ 40-33. TAKING OR ATTEMPTED TAKING OF FISH FROM CERTAIN SALT-WATER RESIDENTIAL
CANALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to catch or take fish or attempt to
catch or take fish by means other than hook and line or use any net other than
a cast net thrown by hand in the following manmade saltwater residential
canals:
   (1)   The dredged canal lying between Driftwood Avenue on the north and
Pelican Key, Riverview Lane, Sandy Key and other dredged canals on the south.
   (2)   The dredged canal lying between Riverview Lane on the west and Sandy
Key on the east.
   (3)   The dredged canal lying between Sandy Key on the west and Anchor Key,
Pelican Key and other dredged canals on the east.
   (4)   The dredged canal lying between Pelican Key on the north and Anchor
Key on the south.
   (5)    The dredged canal lying between Anchor Key on the north and Riverview
Lane on the south.
('75 Code, § 8-5) (Ord. 84-3, passed 5-8-84; Am. Ord. 85-1, passed 2-12-85)
§§ 40-34. – 40-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 45: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
45-1   Administration
   
45-2   Annual fire inspection required; exemptions
   
45-3   Fire protection permit fees and fire prevention inspection fees
   
45-4   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
45-5   Life safety code adopted
   
45-6   Conflict
   
45-7   Repealed
   
45-8   Review of building plans and specifications by a firesafety inspector
   
45-9   Imminent hazards
   
45-10   Access box
   
45-11   Pull station protection
   
45-12   Fire protection system outages
   
45-13   Open burning restrictions
   
45-14   Damaging/tampering with equipment
   
45-15   Obedience to fire lines
   
45-16   Obedience to Fire Department officials
   45-17 – 45-99   Reserved
§ 45-1. ADMINISTRATION.
   The Fire Chief, or their designee, shall be responsible for fire and life
safety inspections and the issuance of fire protection permits for occupancies
other than single-family and two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-2. ANNUAL FIRE INSPECTION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   All buildings and structures within the town, except single-family and two-
family dwellings and associated accessory structures, shall have and be subject
to an annual fire prevention inspection by the town to ensure compliance with
all applicable provisions of the Florida Fire Prevention Code and the Life
Safety Code as adopted by the town. The owner or occupant of any building or
structure subject to such an inspection shall have 30 days to correct
violations identified as the result of such an inspection, unless a longer
period of time for such corrective action is granted by the town upon a showing
of good cause.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-3. FIRE PROTECTION PERMIT FEES AND FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTION FEES.
   The fees for permits required by the Florida Fire Prevention Code and fire
prevention inspections performed by the town shall be those established by
resolution of the Town Commission. In such resolution, the Town Commission
shall also have the authority to establish fees for administrative services
including, but not limited to, site plan review, water flow tests and re-
inspection.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-4. FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The Florida Fire Prevention Code, and the Florida Building Code latest
editions, are hereby adopted as the Fire Prevention Code of the town, except
for those amendments listed herein, and by this reference is hereby
incorporated and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth at
length herein.
(Ord. 86-19, passed 12-9-86; Am. Ord. 92-12, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-04,
passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-5. LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   The latest edition of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101,
Life Safety Code, shall be known as the “Town of Melbourne Beach Life Safety
Code” and is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully
set out. The provisions thereof shall be controlling within the town except to
the extent any such provision is in conflict with the Town Charter or any town
ordinance or provision therein.
(Am. Ord. 92-12, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-04, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 2021-
05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-6. CONFLICT.
   In the event of any conflict between any provision, requirement or standard
contained in this chapter, and any provision, requirement or standard contained
in the Building Code of the Town as set forth in Chapter 4A, Appendix A, the
more stringent provision, requirement or standard shall apply.
(Ord. 86-19, passed 12-9-86; Am. Ord. 92-12, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 2021-05,
adopted 11-17-21)
§§ 45-7. REPEALED.
(Ord. 86-19, passed 12-9-86; Am. Ord. 92-12, passed 1-20-93; Repealed by Ord.
96-04, passed 4- 17-96)
§ 45-8. REVIEW OF BUILDING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS BY A FIRESAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions is to ensure that the
citizens of the town and the patrons of establishments located in the town are
protected in their life and property from the hazards of fire, explosion, and
hazardous fumes which may accrue as a result of new construction, alteration or
repair of buildings, and the erection of fences, hedges, and other barriers
subsequent to the approved occupancy of a building.
   (b)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to construction,
erection, alteration, repair, or demolition in all zoning districts of the
town; provided, however, that one and two-family detached residential dwelling
units in any zoning district, when used as a one or two-family detached
residential dwelling units, shall not be subject to the provisions of this
section.
   (c)   Building plan review by a state certified Firesafety Inspector. The
Building Official, in conjunction with the Fire Chief, or his/her designated
representative, either of whom is a State of Florida certified FIRESAFETY
INSPECTOR, as that term is defined in Section 633.052(1)(a), Florida Statutes,
as amended, transferred, or revised, from time to time, will review all plans
and specifications for construction, erection. alteration, repair, or
demolition before any permit is issued by the town or the Building Official tor
said construction, erection, alteration, repair, or demolition. The review will
be to ensure that the plans and specifications are in compliance with the
building codes adopted in §§ 4A-20, 4A-21, 4A-65, 4A-66, 4A-81 through 4A-84,
Appendix A, of this code, the Florida Fire Prevention Code adopted by §
45-4, and the applicable Life  Safety Code adopted by §
45-5 of this code. No permit for construction, erection, alteration, repair, or
demolition, of a building, structure, illuminated sign, or change in occupancy
classification, shall be issued until both officials have found the plans and
specifications are in compliance with the aforementioned codes. Any building or
structure which is not subject to a fire safety code and any building or
structure which is exempt from the local building permit process shall not be
required to have its plans and specifications reviewed as provided herein.
   (d)   Repealed.
   (e)   Fences, hedges, and access or egress barriers. No permit for the
erection of a fence, hedge, or access or egress barrier shall be issued unless
and until the completed application therefor has been reviewed by the Fire
Chief to ensure that access to the property for firefighting purposes will not
be impaired. A barrier to site access or egress may exist through erection of
ornamental, decorative, or functional pillars, columns, or poles; flagpoles;
exterior sign supports; or site landscaping which includes trees of a size to
impede fire equipment access or damage fire equipment as a result of proximity
to the entrance, exit, or interior driveways and vehicular aisles of the
property.
   (f)   Errors, omissions, or hazardous conditions detected on building plans
will immediately be reconciled by informal consultation between the applicant,
the Building Official and Fire Chief before a building permit is issued. If
reconciliation cannot be effected, then the officials concerned will jointly
and immediately request the Town Commission for a decision and provide written
briefs to accompany their request. The issuance of a building permit in such
cases will be held in abeyance pending decision of the Town Commission.
('75 Code, § 11-8) (Ord. 79-6, passed 3-13-79; Am. Ord. 97-03, passed 11-19-97;
Am. Ord. 2021- 05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-9. IMMINENT HAZARDS.
   (a)   If, during a fire safety inspection, the Fire Chief, Building Official
or designee thereof determines that a violation exists that pose an imminent
and substantial danger to the public health, safety and welfare, the Fire
Chief, Building Official or their designee may take such actions as deemed
necessary in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare. The
actions of the Fire Chief, Building Official or their designee shall inc1ude,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Issuing such corrective orders as may be necessary to protect the
public from any imminent and substantial danger. An order issued by the Fire
Chief, Building Official or their designee shall become effective immediately
upon service of such order on the person in violation;
      (2)   Requesting the Town Manager to request that the Town Attorney
commence a civil action for appropriate relief, including but not limited to a
permanent or temporary injunction; or
      (3)   Authorizing any lawful action immediately necessary to summarily
abate or correct any condition which presents an imminent and substantial
hazard to life and property.
   (b)   If any person refuses to comply with any order or unlawfully
interferes with the Fire Chief, Building Official or designee thereof carrying
out any duties or functions prescribed by this section, the person shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500 per day or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 60 days or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-10. ACCESS BOX.
   All structures that are required to have fire alarm, standpipe or sprinkler
systems, shall provide a public safety key access box(es) for Fire Department
use. The key box shall contain any key necessary for access to occupied floors
within the structure for emergency fire and rescue purposes such as but not
limited to keys for elevator return and door opening, elevator rooms, fire
alarm box, electric rooms. and storage rooms. The key box system may be
surface-mounted or flush-mount in an easily accessible location, (as determined
by the Fire Department), at a height of six feet or less to the top of the box.
The Fire Department shall maintain possession of the only master key. In the
event locks are changed in any of the above-mentioned rooms, the Fire
Department shall be notified immediately.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-11. PULL STATION PROTECTION.
   All exterior fire alarm pull stations on new and existing buildings shall be
protected by a weatherproof guard to deter false alarms.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-12. FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM OUTAGES.
   If any fire protection system installed in a structure including fire alarm
systems, goes out of service for any reason, the owner or tenant shall notify
the Fire Department within four hours. An approved fire watch will be
implemented until the fire protection system is operational again. Repair shall
be made to the fire protection systems within 72 hours. The Fire Department
hall be notified in writing of the date of completion. In the event repairs
cannot be completed with 72 hours, the plan and schedule for repairs shall be
coordinated with and approved by the Fire Department. Any repairs, testing, or
inspections, of existing standpipe and/or sprinkler system, including
underground piping and valves, shall be done by a company that is certified by
the State of Florida for installation and repair of fire protection systems.
When the system is operational again a copy of the fire watch documentation
shall be provided to the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-13. OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire
(including but not limited to trash, shrubs, trees, litter, motor oil,
combustible or flammable liquids, wooden pallet, construction waste product or
any other materials) within the limits of the town.
   (b)   Cooking fires located on the beach shall be permitted, provided:
      (1)   The beach cooking fire shall be fueled by propane or butane within
a self-contained cooking apparatus;
      (2)   The beach cooking fire shall not be located within 25 feet seaward
of the dune or vegetation line; and
      (3)   The fire shall be constantly attended by a competent person until
the fire is extinguished.
   (c)   Cooking fires not located on the beach shall be permitted, provided:
      (1)   The cooking fire shall be contained within the confines of a BBQ
grill or similar device used solely for cooking purposes;
      (2)   The cooking fire shall only be fueled by charcoal, natural wood (no
lumber or construction materials), propane, natural gas, or butane within the
self-contained cooking apparatus; and
      (3)   The cooking fire must be a minimum of ten feet from any structure
or combustible material.
   (d)   Recreational beach fires are allowed by permit only and must be in
compliance with the following restrictions:
      (1)   Beach fires will only be permitted during non-turtle nesting season
(November February).
      (2)   Beach fires shall only be allowed in town- designated beach fire
pits.
      (3)   Permittee must be 21 years of age or older.
      (4)   Proof of driver's license or state-issued ID card will be required
to obtain a permit.
      (5)   Permittee will be responsible for all individuals attending the
beach fire activity.
      (6)   Permittee must be on site at all times during the scheduled date
and time listed on permit.
      (7)   A copy of the permit (paper or digital) must be on site during the
scheduled date and time and presented upon the request of a Fire Official or
Police Officer.
      (8)   The maximum number of attendees allowed at a beach fire shall be
stated on the permit.
      (9)   Beach fire must be fueled only by commercially purchased seasoned
dry firewood or artificial logs. NO EXCEPTIONS.
      (10)   The use of flammable and/or combustible liquids to ignite or fuel
fires is prohibited. A solid fire starter must be used to ignite the fire.
      (11)   The use of beach driftwood, lumber, plywood, pallets, creosote
treated lumber, glue impregnated material, plastic, foam, rubber, household
trash, trees, Christmas trees or any wood that is painted, has nails, pressure
treated, or such is PROHIBITED. Any violations found will result in immediate
revocation of permit and the fire will be immediately extinguished. In
addition, violators may be subject to penalties, up to and including fines,
cleanup costs, total loss of deposit, and denial of future beach fire permits.
      (12)   Vegetation or materials located within the beach park or on the
beach are not allowed to be taken, damaged, or used as material to burn. Any
violations may be subject to criminal penalties.
      (13)   Beach fires shall not exceed three feet in flame height. Anything
greater shall be considered a bonfire, which is prohibited.
      (14)   Extinguishment material such as a bucket of water or sand and a
shovel must be readily available on site at all times during the fire.
      (15)   The town, through any of its applicable departments, reserves the
right to cancel or revoke any permit if the town believes a violation or unsafe
conditions are present.
      (16)   All beach fires must be thoroughly extinguished, cooled down and
cleaned up prior to end of the permitted time. The beach fire site MUST BE
FULLY CLEANED prior to your departure. A Town-supplied metal container is to be
used for removal of any leftover material. At no time should warm embers be
placed in any trash receptacles. The fire pit must be leveled to return the
beach to its previous status. MATERIAL AND/OR ASH SHALL NOT BE BURIED IN THE
SAND, THROWN IN THE OCEAN OR PLACED IN PLASTIC GARBAGE RECEPTACLES AT THE
BEACH. Beach fire sites will be inspected post cleanup. Failure to clean the
site will result in a total loss of deposit, and permit holder may be banned
from future beach fires.
      (17)   Smoke complaints may result in the fire being required to be
extinguished.
      (18)   Unsuitable wind or weather conditions may result in the fire being
required to be extinguished.
      (19)   Anytime the state or county has issued a red flag warning or a
drought exists, no permits will be issued and permits will be canceled. For
cancellations made by the town based on these conditions, the town may issue a
refund or offer another day to the permittee as an option.
      (20)   Should the permittee cancel their event for any reason, other than
for severe weather or safety-related issues, refunds may not be issued.
      (21)   Beach fire permits are subject to public record request.
      (22)   The amount of the permit fee and deposit shall be determined by
the Town Commission.
      (23)   The permit shall state the date and the time period it is valid
for.
   (e)   Recreational fires located on a residential or commercial property,
shall be permitted, provided:
      (1)   The recreational fire shall be contained within the confines of a
metal or masonry pit outdoor fireplace, portable outdoor fireplace, or similar
device not greater than nine square feet fire box area for pleasure, religious,
ceremonial, warmth or similar purposes.
      (2)   Flame height not greater than three feet. Anything greater shall be
considered a bonfire which is prohibited.
      (3)   The recreational fire shall only be fueled by charcoal, natural
wood (no lumber or construction materials), propane, natural gas, or butane.
      (4)   The burning of other materials including but not limited to lumber,
plywood, pallets, creosote treated lumber, glue impregnated material, plastic,
foam, rubber, household trash, shrubs, trees, Christmas trees, litter, motor
oil combustible or flammable liquids or any wood that is painted, has nails,
pressure treated or such is considered a rubbish fire which is PROHIBITED.
      (5)   The recreational fire must be a minimum of ten feet from any
structure or combustible material.
      (6)   Must have a method to put out the fire (such as a hose or fire
extinguisher) capable of total extinguishment of the burn area.
      (7)   Must have an adult in attendance at all times until extinguished.
      (8)   Smoke complaints may result in the fire being required to be
extinguished.
      (9)   Violations of the above are subject to fines, penalties, and the
fire will be immediately extinguished.
      (10)   Anytime the state or county has issued a red flag warning, or a
drought exists, or if weather conditions are such that an open fire would
present a hazard to life or property the Fire Chief or his designee is
authorized to require that the fire will be immediately extinguished. Failure
to comply can result in fines and penalties.
(Ord. 87-14, passed 9-22-87; Am. Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-14. DAMAGING/TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall damage or tamper with any equipment or apparatus owned by or
in the possession of the Fire Department pursuant to Section 806.13, Florida
Statutes.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-15. OBEDIENCE TO FIRE LANES.
   No person shall approach any closer to any fire than the fire line
established by the Fire Chief or other member of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 45-16. OBEDIENCE TO FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as
provided in Sections 775.082 or 775.083, Florida Statutes, for any person
willfully to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any
member of the Fire Department at the scene of a fire, rescue operation, or
other emergency pursuant to Section 806.13, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§§ 45-17. – 45-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 46: JUNK AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
46-1   Junk items prohibited
   
46-2   Certain accumulations prohibited
   
46-3   Storage of abandoned or junked vehicles
   
46-4   Evidence that vehicle is abandoned
   
46-5   Redemption of property
   46-6 – 46-19   Reserved
Article II. Enforcement
   
46-20   Enforcement by Code Enforcement special magistrate; penalties for
violations
   
46-21   Adoption of state regulations as supplemental procedure for enforcement
   
46-22   Interference with enforcement officers; immunity of officers to
trespass prosecution
   46-23 – 46-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 46-1. JUNK ITEMS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided herein, the keeping, dumping, storing, placing or
maintaining of abandoned, discarded, worn-out, scrapped or unlicensed
automobiles, boats, trailers and other items, upon any unenclosed premises or
unenclosed portion of any premises, shall constitute a nuisance and the same is
prohibited.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§ 46-2. CERTAIN ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any accumulation of any waste materials
prohibited by this chapter in or upon any yard, lawn, garden, outbuilding, lot
or premises in the town if the same constitutes a fire hazard, a hazard to the
safety of persons or property or contributes to mosquito breeding or creates an
unsanitary condition.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§ 46-3. STORAGE OF ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, occupant, lessee,
agent, tenant or otherwise to store or deposit or cause or permit to be stored
or deposited, any abandoned, junked or discarded motor vehicle, with or without
motor power, designed for carrying persons or property upon any public or
private property within the town, except within an enclosed building or unless
completely covered by a nontransparent close-fitting cover; provided that no
more than one such vehicle can be stored outside an enclosed building and must
be stored to the rear of the front building line.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§ 46-4. EVIDENCE THAT VEHICLE IS ABANDONED.
   The absence of a valid license plate for the current year and/or the absence
of a current motor vehicle registration shall be prima facie evidence that such
a vehicle is abandoned, junked or discarded.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§ 46-5. REDEMPTION OF PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as giving the right to any
convicted defendant to redeem any property as defined in this chapter where
such property was used in violation of state law or the ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§§ 46-6. – 46-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. ENFORCEMENT
§ 46-20. ENFORCEMENT BY CODE ENFORCEMENT SPECIAL MAGISTRATE; PENALTIES FOR
VIOLATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the Town Code Enforcement
special magistrate with the penalties as provided in §
11-21, except that the provisions of §
46-21 regarding the removal and destruction of certain personal property shall
be the responsibility of the Police Department.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 46-21. ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS AS SUPPLEMENTAL PROCEDURE FOR
ENFORCEMENT.
   There is hereby adopted by reference by the town for the purpose of
prescribing a supplemental procedure for removal and destruction of certain
abandoned property Chapter 705, Florida Statutes, save and except such portions
as may hereinafter be amended, of which not less than three copies have been
and are filed in the office of the Town Clerk. The same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set forth at length herein.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§ 46-22. INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; IMMUNITY OF OFFICERS TO
TRESPASS PROSECUTION.
   (1)   Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists any enforcement officer or any
person authorized by the enforcement officer in the discharge of his duties as
provided in this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
1-99.
   (2)   Any enforcement officer or any person authorized by the enforcement
officer shall be immune to prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable,
good-faith trespass upon real property while in the discharge of duties imposed
by this chapter.
(Ord. 87-09, passed 7-28-87)
§§ 46-23. – 46-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 47: LITTER AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
47-00   Title; authority for regulation; reservations generally
   
47-1   Definitions
   
47-2   Mandatory service
   
47-3   Points of collection for solid waste
   
47-4   Recycling
   
47-5   Frequency of collection
   
47-6   Collection rates; billing procedures for residential units
   
47-7   Collection rates; billing procedures for commercial and/or institutional
customers
   
47-8   Roll-off container customer rates and billing procedures
   
47-9   Change in cost of doing business; unusual costs or charges
   
47-10   Hours of operation; collector's personnel; collector's equipment
   
47-11   Hazardous wastes
   
47-12   General provisions of any franchise agreement with a collector
   
47-13   Breach of franchise
   
47-14   Complaints
   
47-15   Customer's duties
   
47-16   Cost increases
   
47-17   Containers for multi-family units
   
47-18   Property maintenance for commercial, business, and industrial
establishments
   
47-19   Public littering
   
47-20   Handbill and newspaper distribution
   
47-21   Construction and demolition sites
   
47-22   Florida Litter Law
   
47-23   Grant of a franchise; franchise required; general franchise provisions;
term of franchise
   
47-24   Franchise fees on commercial/residential service
   47-25 – 47-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 47-00. TITLE; AUTHORITY FOR REGULATION; RESERVATIONS GENERALLY.
   (a)   Title. This chapter may be cited as the "Melbourne Beach Solid Waste
Disposal Code."
   (b)   Authority for regulation. This chapter is enacted under the home rule
powers of the town to promote the public health, safety, welfare, aesthetics,
and economic order of the community, by providing regulations for recycling,
collecting, removing, or disposing of solid waste material, construction and
demolition debris, or recyclable materials, all from businesses, residences or
construction sites, or littering within the town.
   (c)   Reservations generally. In addition to the specific reservations of
the town set forth herein, the Town Commission hereby reserves unto the town
the matters set forth in this section. In accepting a franchise, the franchisee
acknowledges that its rights thereunder are subject to the police powers of the
town to adopt and enforce ordinances, resolutions, policies, and practices
necessary to the convenience, health, safety, welfare, and economic order of
the public, and it agrees to comply with all applicable ordinances,
resolutions, rules, regulations, policies, and practices by the town pursuant
to such power. Any inconsistency between, or ambiguity created by the
relationship between, the provisions of this chapter and any other
contemporaneous or future lawful exercise of the town's police powers shall be
resolved in favor of the latter.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 2-18-98)
§ 47-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. All retail, professional, wholesale and industrial facilities and
any other commercial enterprises offering goods or services to the public.
   CLAM SHELL TRUCK. A truck equipped with a boom that has a bucket especially
designed to collect trash as well as a body equipped with sides sufficient in
height to contain the trash for transportation to the landfill. The truck shall
also have the capability to be dumped hydraulically.
   COLLECTOR. The person or legal entity responsible for operating solid waste
pick-up in the town pursuant to a franchise agreement.
   COMMERCIAL UNITS. All multi dwellings (four units and more) and businesses.
   COMMERCIAL CONTAINER. Any metal container designed or intended to be
mechanically dumped into the packer-type garbage truck used by the collector
and varying in size from two to eight cubic yards.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Materials generally considered not to be
water soluble and nonhazardous in nature, including but not limited to, steel,
glass, brick, concrete, asphalt roofing material, pipe, gypsum wallboard and
lumber, from the construction or destruction of a structure as part of a
construction or demolition project, and including rocks, soils, tree remains,
trees, and other vegetative matter which normally results from land clearing or
land development operations for a construction project. Mixing of CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS with other types of solid waste, including material from
construction or demolition site which is not from the actual construction or
destruction of a structure, will cause it to be classified as other than
construction and demolition debris.
   CURBSIDE. That portion of the street right-of-way paralleling any public
right-of-way between the curb line and abutting property line. If ditching
bisects the property and the right-of-way, the curbside then becomes the
roadside of the ditch.
   CUSTOMER. Any natural or artificial person or entity residing, doing
business or operating at or in a commercial unit or residential unit.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization or renewal thereof, voluntarily entered
into by the franchisee and issued by the town, whether such authorization is
referred to as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate,
agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the right, privilege, and/or use of
public rights-of-way within the town for the purpose of recycling, collecting,
removing, or disposing of solid waste material, construction and demolition
debris, or recyclable materials from businesses, residences or construction
sites within the town. A franchise may be exclusive or nonexclusive. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include any
franchise or permit required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a
business within the town as required by other code provisions and ordinances of
the town.
   FRANCHISE AREA. The portion of the town for which a franchise is granted
under the authority of this code. If not otherwise states in the franchise, the
FRANCHISE AREA shall be the corporate limits of the town, including all
territory thereafter annexed to the town. The franchisee shall be notified in
writing of any annexations to the town.
   FRANCHISEE. The person, whether natural, corporate, or otherwise, domestic
or foreign, to whom a franchise is granted by the town under this chapter, and
the lawful successor, transferee, or assignee of such person.
   FRANCHISE FEE. The percentage, as specified by a franchise agreement, of the
franchisee's gross annual revenues derived from the operation of the franchise
for certain types of services as set forth in a franchise agreement (e.g. -
recycling, collection, removing, or disposing of solid waste material,
construction and demolition debris, or recyclable materials in the town), and
which is payable in exchange for the rights granted pursuant to this code and
the franchise.
   GARBAGE. Every refuse accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that
attends the preparation, use, cooking or dealing in or storage of edibles,
which is subject to decay, putrefacation and the generation of noxious or
offensive gases or odors, or which, during or after decay, may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies or other germ-carrying insects.
   GARBAGE RECEPTACLE. A container of not greater than 30-gallon capacity nor
less than ten-gallon capacity, which shall be free of jagged or sharp edges and
shall be watertight and of impervious material, provided with tight-fitting
cover suitable to protect the contents from flies, insects, rats and other
animals, fitted with two handles by which it may be lifted and which shall not
have any inside structure, such as inside bands or reinforcing angles or
anything within that would prevent the free discharge of the contents. Such
receptacle may also be a water-proof bag liner, which can be safely and
securely closed and which is a type approved by the collector and the town.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. All receipts derived directly or indirectly from the
operation of the franchise in the town, including but not necessarily limited
to the hauling of solid waste, collection of construction and demolition
debris, special waste, or recyclables, and sale of recyclables in the town to
customers. GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES shall not include any fees or taxes which are
imposed directly on any customer thereof by any governmental unit or agency,
and which is collected by the collector on behalf of that entity. Nor shall
GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES include any debts for service or equipment owed but
uncollected by the collector.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. As defined under the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act, 42 USC Section 6903(5), as amended or as further defined pursuant to
implementing regulations within the Code of Federal Regulations, or regulated
as toxic under the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 USC Section 2601, as
amended, or under regulations promulgated thereunder or defined as hazardous
under the Chapter 62-730, Florida Administrative Code, or any other applicable
state or local law or regulation.
   HOUSEHOLD JUNK. Any tangible item such as furniture or similar property not
having purpose to the owner. HOUSEHOLD JUNK  does not include abandoned junk
automobiles and parts thereof, white goods, materials that accumulate as a
result of building or building alterations such as brick, block, stone, sand,
siding, roofing or trash generated as a result to clearing vacant lots.
   INSTITUTIONAL UNIT. Public, private, religious or town governmental
establishments for education, recreation, instruction, health care or entities
otherwise performing services for the public.
   LANDFILL. The Brevard County Landfill or other landfill properly permitted
by all appropriate governmental regulatory authorities and acceptable to the
town and the collector.
   PUBLIC RECORD. The term as defined in Section 119.011, Florida Statutes, as
amended from time to time, and by any judicial forum.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. A plastic container, used for the storage/collection of
recyclable material, or any other container identified for recyclable material
storage/collection as shown in franchise agreement with a collector.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Those materials which are capable of being recycled
and which would otherwise be processed or disposed of as solid waste, including
cardboard, newspapers, glass and bottles, metal cans and aluminum.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any structure or shelter, or any part thereof, used or
constructed for use as a residence for up to four families.
   ROLL-OFF CONTAINER. Any container (open top or enclosed for compaction) used
for the collection and storage of construction debris, demolition debris,
garbage and rubbish that can be picked up and transported on a specially
equipped truck to the landfill or recycling facility.
   RUBBISH. Refuse, accumulation of paper, excelsior, rags or wooden or paper
boxes or containers, sweepings, and all other accumulations of nature other
than garbage, which are usual to housekeeping and to the operation of stores,
offices, and other business places; also any cans or other containers which,
due to their ability to retain water, may serve as breeding places for
mosquitoes or other water breeding insects.
   SOLID WASTE. A general term which includes the specific terms garbage,
rubbish, household junk, white goods, construction and demolition debris and
trash, but which does not include hazardous waste or special waste. Recyclable
materials shall not be included within this definition, if the recyclable
material has been properly separated by the customer and placed into
appropriate recycling containers. If the recyclable material has not been
properly separated by the customer and is placed by the customer with other
garbage, trash, household junk, or rubbish, the recyclable material shall be
considered to be solid waste for the purposes of this Agreement.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Items of solid waste that require special handling and
management, including:
      (1)   Chemical waste from a laboratory. This is limited to discarded
containers of laboratory chemicals, lab equipment, lab clothing, debris from
lab spills or cleanup and floor sweepings.
      (2)   Articles, equipment and clothing containing or contaminated with
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Examples would be: CB capacitors or
transformers, gloves or aprons from draining operations, empty drums that
formerly held PCBs.
      (3)   PCB drainings and flushings removed from PCB articles and placed
directly into transport containers.
      (4)   Empty containers of waste commercial products or chemicals. This
applies to a portable container which has been emptied, but which may hold
residuals of the products or chemical. Examples of containers are: portable
tanks, drums, barrels, cans, bags, liners. A container shall be determined RCRA
“empty” according to the criteria specified at 40 C.F.R. Section 261.7.)
      (5)   Asbestos-containing waste from building demolition or cleaning.
This applies to asbestos-bearing waste insulation materials, such as wall
board, wall spray coverings, pipe insulation.
      (6)   Commercial products or chemicals: Off-specification, outdated,
contaminated or banned. This also includes products voluntarily removed from
the market place by a manufacturer or distributor, in response to allegations
of adverse health effects associated with product use.
      (7)   Residue and debris from cleanup spills or releases of a single
chemical substance or commercial product or a single waste which would
otherwise qualify as a miscellaneous special waste.
      (8)   Animal waste and parts from slaughterhouses or rendering plants.
      (9)   Waste produced by the mechanical processing of fruit, vegetables or
grain. This includes such wastes as rinds, hulls, husks, pods, shells and
chaff.
      (10)   Pumpings from septic tanks used exclusively by dwelling units.
(Single family homes, duplexes, apartment buildings, hotels or motels.)
      (11)   Sludge from a publicly owned sewage treatment plant serving
primarily domestic users.
      (12)   Grease trap wastes from residences, restaurants, cafeterias not
located at industrial facilities.
      (13)   Washwater wastes from commercial car washes.
      (14)   Washwater wastes from commercial laundries or laundromats.
      (15)   Chemical-containing equipment removed from service. (Examples:
Cathode ray tubes, batteries, fluorescent light tubes).
      (16)   Waste produced from the demolition or dismantling of industrial
process equipment or facilities contaminated with chemicals from the process.
      (17)   Closed cartridge filters from dry cleaning establishments, such
filters being used to filter used dry cleaning fluids or solids.
      (18)   Containerized waste. To include, but not be limited to, a drum,
barrel, portable tank, box or pail.
      (19)   Waste transported in a bulk tanker.
      (20)   Liquid waste. For purposes of this paragraph, liquid waste means
any waste material that is determined to be or contain “free liquid” by the
paint filter test (EPA Method 9095).
      (21)   Sludge waste.
      (22)   Waste from an industrial process. Waste which requires special
handling.
      (23)   Waste from a pollution control process.
      (24)   Residue or debris from the cleanup of a spill or release of
chemical substances, commercial products or wastes listed in divisions (19)
through (24) of this definition.
      (25)   Soil, water, residue or debris, including and limited to articles
which are contaminated from the cleanup of a site or facility formerly used for
the generation, storage, treatment, recycling, reclamation, or disposal of
wastes listed in paragraph (19) through (25) of this definition.
   TRASH. Accumulation of lawn, grass or shrubbery cuttings, or clippings and
dry leaf rakings, palm fronds, small tree branches (shall not exceed four feet
in length and twelve inches in diameter), bushes or shrubs, green leaf
cuttings, coconuts, fruits or other matter usually created as refuse in the
care of lawns and yards.
   WHITE GOODS. Discarded stoves, refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners and
other items so defined by Chapter 62-701.200, Florida Administrative Code, or
Chapter 403, Florida Statutes, all as amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 6-17-92; Am. Ord. 98-01, passed 2-18-98)
§ 47-2. MANDATORY SERVICE.
   (a)    Each residential unit and commercial unit within the town shall be
provided with solid waste pickup and removal services. Construction and
demolition debris and special waste accounts shall be serviced only upon the
execution of individual agreements between collector and the customer.
Construction or demolition debris or special waste collected is subject to be
collected by the collector pursuant to an executed contract.
   (b)   A collector shall, upon 60 days prior notice, be required to
separately collect (yard) trash. The collector shall assist the town in
conducting a public awareness campaign to promote the town's (yard) trash
program. To educate customers and prior to implementation of the (yard) trash
collection program the collector shall prepare a flier which explains the
proper preparation and separation of (yard) trash and the collection schedule
of the program. After the flier has been reviewed and approved by the town, the
collector, at its expense, shall reproduce a sufficient number of fliers, as
determined by the town, to be furnished to all residential units and multi-
family commercial units. The town shall forward the flier to all residential
units and multi-family commercial units receiving service from the collector.
(Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 6-17-92)
§ 47-3. POINTS OF COLLECTION FOR SOLID WASTE.
   (a)   Residential units: The customer shall place all solid waste at a point
within the right-of-way abutting the customer's residence no farther than five
feet from the curb line or paving line, or, in the case no right-of-way exists
which abuts the customer's property, at a point no greater than five feet from
the curb line or paving line of the nearest public street, or, in the case of
the existence of a drainage ditch, at a point on the roadside of the ditch.
      (1)   The collector shall not be responsible for articles not placed in
garbage receptacles, or any other item placed in or about the designated
service area.
      (2)   The collector shall immediately remove any litter from premises,
parkway or public right-of-way deposited by it in the process of making
collections or transportation of solid waste.
      (3)   The collector shall be required to remove (yard) trash only from
residential units that receive regular solid waste collection service.
   (b)   Commercial units and institutional units. Collection of solid waste
from commercial units and institutional units shall be made at those points
designed by the collector in consultation with the customer, which will
maximize economy in the collection of the solid waste while considering the
public health, safety, aesthetics, the convenience to the customer and which
will not be inconsistent with all governmental environmental laws and
regulations, as well as local land use/zoning regulations, all as may be
amended or created from time to time.
      (1)   All solid waste generated from a commercial unit shall be placed by
the customer in a commercial container (or garbage receptacle) located at the
applicable collection point on the designated collection day.
      (2)   Commercial units which generated in excess of ten cubic yards of
solid waste per month shall utilize a commercial container for the collection
of solid waste.
      (3)   The collector shall be required to remove (yard) only from multi-
family (residential) commercial units that receive regular solid waste
collection service.
   (c)   Construction or demolition debris and roll-off container customers:
Collection for customers generating construction or demolition debris or
utilizing roll-off containers may be at points designated by the collector in
consultation with customer.
§ 47-4. RECYCLING.
   (a)   Residential recycling: The collector shall provide the town and all
residential units with the capability to participate in a recycling program as
provided by Chapter 403, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time.
      (1)   The collector will provide each residential unit with three
recycling containers used for the storage/collection of recyclable materials.
      (2)   Recyclable material shall be sorted by residents and placed in
recycling containers. Recycling containers shall be placed at curbside,
separate and apart from any other containers on specified collection days.
      (3)   All recycling containers shall be rinsed, plastic containers have
caps removed and flattened prior to placement in recycling containers. Metal
cans need not be flattened, and labels need not be removed from cans or glass.
Newspapers shall be free of food or other contaminants when placed in recycling
container.
      (4)   The abuse or use of recycling containers for purposes other than as
provided herein is prohibited. The recycling containers remain the property of
the collector.
      (5)   Recyclable material is material placed at curbside in recycling
containers for collection shall become the property of the town.
      (6)   Recyclable materials shall be sold through markets, the aggressive
development of which is responsibility of the collector. The town shall assist
the collector in its marketing efforts by passing resolutions and by providing
other support as is deemed reasonable and necessary by the town.
      (7)   All proceeds from the sale of the recyclable materials will go to
the town as provided in the franchise agreement between the town and the
collector. The collector shall be responsible for maintaining a complete
accounting record of such sale proceeds and shall make said accounting records
available to the town along with its periodic payments to the town. The
accounting shall, at a minimum, include the amount of bottles, cans and
newspaper collected during the particular period reported, the place of
disposal of the recyclable material and the amount of funds realized from the
sale of the recyclable material.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for any person
other than those authorized by the Town of Melbourne Beach to collect or pickup
or caused to be picked up any recyclable material placed at the curbside for
collection. The collector and anyone designated by the Town Manager to collect
or pick-up or caused to be collected or picked-up recyclable materials is
authorized to undertake the collection or removal of recyclable material from a
recycling container. The Town Manager may authorize any individual to perform
the functions set forth herein; provided, that said individual is operating
pursuant to or in furtherance of any law enforcement function, this code, any
program or plan approved by the Town Commission, or in event of any emergency
as determined by the Town Manager and in furtherance of the public interest,
safety, health or aesthetics.
      (9)   In the event the recyclable containers contain material other than
recycling materials, the non-recyclable materials will not be collected and an
explanatory notice will be placed in the recycling container.
      (10)   The town and the collector will cooperate in the design of
promotional events and educational programs and the preparation of promotional
materials such as flyers for public distribution. However, the foregoing shall
not be construed to obligate the town to make expenditures, endorse programs
and materials or make space or personnel available for the foregoing. The
collector will distribute written information reviewed and approved by the town
to the residential participants on a periodic basis as described in the
franchise agreement. The collector agrees to conduct presentations for schools,
civic groups, homeowners associations and other appropriate citizens groups at
the request of same or the town, all at no expense to the town or citizens
group.
      (11)   The collector shall keep records of the volume of solid waste and
recyclable materials collected and charges therefore, and the town shall have
the right to review those records which in any way pertain to the payments.
   (b)   Multi-family dwelling and commercial recycling shall be accomplished
at such time as may be specified in a franchise agreement between the collector
and the town.
§ 47-5. FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   (a)   Residential units: Solid waste shall be collected from residential
units on a regular basis of twice per week. Recyclable materials will be set
out for curbside collection once per week on one of the solid waste collection
days. The collection day shall be determined by the collector with town
approval. The collector shall pick up all properly prepared (yard) trash placed
at the curb or at the designated collection point from each residential unit
not less than one time per week. The collector shall notify the customers of
the applicable schedule of (yard) trash collection at least ten days prior to
an alteration of said schedule.
   (b)   Commercial units shall be provided solid waste collection at least two
times per week or up to six times per week, if needed, excluding Sunday. The
need for additional collection days shall be determined upon mutual agreement
of the collector and the respective customer. A request for additional
collection days by a customer shall not be unreasonably withheld or disapproved
by the collector. Recyclable materials generated by multi-family commercial
units will be collected once per week on one of the solid waste collection
days. The recyclable materials collection day for multi-family commercial units
shall be determined by the collector with Town approval. The collector shall
pick up all properly prepared (yard) trash placed at the curb or at the
designated collection point from each multi-family residential commercial unit
not less than one time per week. The collector shall notify the customers of
the applicable schedule of (yard) trash collection at least ten days prior to
an alteration of said schedule.
   (c)   The collector need not provide residential collection on holidays as
set forth in the applicable franchise agreement.
   (d)   Roll-off containers will be collected on a demand basis.
   (e)   The collector shall notify all customers at least once per year of
their respective collection days for solid waste, (yard) trash, and recyclable
material collection, and in the event the collector may change the days of
collection, it shall notify the customer at least ten days prior to the change.
   (f)   Residential units, commercial units, and institutional units
constructed so as to be non-accessible by normal collection equipment, shall be
subject to rates negotiated between the collector and the building owners and/
or tenants. In the event rates cannot be agreed upon, the Town Commission shall
decide upon a reasonable rate under the specific circumstances.
(Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 6-17-92)
§ 47-6. COLLECTION RATES; BILLING PROCEDURES FOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   (a)   Solid waste collection rates for residential units shall be as follows
on a per unit basis: solid waste collection, $7.14 per month per residential
unit. Recyclable materials collection, $1.98 per month per residential unit.
Billing of service charges, deposits and delinquent amounts shall be
accomplished as follows:
      (1)   Residential accounts shall be billed monthly by the City of
Melbourne acting as billing agent for the town and the collector. The City of
Melbourne shall remit payment monthly based on cash receipt directly to the
collector. In the event that the collector incurs additional costs due to
changes in the City of Melbourne's billing procedure during the term of a
franchise agreement, the collector may seek adjustments of the franchise
agreement as provided in §
47-9. In the event that the City of Melbourne billing or collection procedures
conflict with the foregoing, the city's procedures shall govern pending further
consideration and approval by the Town Commission.
      (2)   The collector shall be responsible for providing information to the
City of Melbourne regarding charges and billing rates in accordance with the
franchise agreement.
      (3)   A delinquent charge of 1.5% per month may be charged on the balance
of any account unpaid after 30 days from the billing date. In the event any
account is not fully paid (cost of collection of solid waste and recyclable
materials) within 30 days from the billing date, the account shall be deemed
delinquent.
   (b)   No service shall be terminated until the collector has accomplished
the following:
      (1)   The owner of the account and the recipient of collection services
shall be sent a notice to said owner's address as shown on the account and to
said collection service recipient's residence address prior to termination of
collection service because of non-payment, advising the owner and the recipient
of collection services of his right to protest the billing amount for good
cause shown, the need to make payment, or the need to otherwise seek an
adjustment of the bill, and that service will be discontinued within ten days,
if the owner/recipient has not made other arrangement or adjustment of the bill
with the collector.
      (2)   If not paid within ten days from receipt of the termination notice,
collection services may be ceased by the collector, and the Town Manager or his
designee shall be notified.
      (3)   Any delinquent account may be reinstated upon payment of the past
due balance, any delinquent fee, a $15.00 delivery fee (if the establishment
has a Collector furnished container), and the necessary deposit. Service shall
resume upon the next scheduled pickup after notice has been given to the
collector.
   (c)   For providing (yard) trash collection service as specified herein:
      (1)   For each residential unit that is a single-family residence, a
residential townhouse, a mobile home, or mobile home condominium unit, the
collector shall be compensated at the rate of $.85 per month per unit serviced;
      (2)   For each residential unit that is a residential condominium unit, a
cooperative unit, a multi-family residential unit, or a trailer court/trailer
park unit, the collector shall be compensated at the rate of $.64 per month per
unit serviced; and
      (3)   For each residential unit that is a condominium recreational
vehicle unit, the collector shall be compensated at the rate of $.33 per month
per unit serviced.
(Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 6-17-92)
§ 47-7. COLLECTION RATES; BILLING PROCEDURES FOR COMMERCIAL AND/OR
INSTITUTIONAL CUSTOMERS.
   (a)   Collection rates.
      (1)   Collection of refuse at commercial units shall be rated on a
yardage basis, with a minimum charge of $11.92 per month, $3.89 per yard plus
container maintenance for commercial units using commercial containers, $4.99
per yard for commercial garbage receptacles.
   Rates for Container Maintenance
   2 Yard Container         $ 21.49 per month
   3 Yard Container          24.18 per month
   4 Yard Container          26.86 per month
   6 Yard Container          29.55 per month
   8 Yard Container          37.62 per month
      (2)   Recyclable materials collection - $1.98 per month per multi-family
unit.
      (3)   For providing (yard) trash collection service to multi-family
commercial units as specified herein:
         (A)   For each multi-family commercial unit that is a residential
townhouse, a mobile home, or mobile home condominium unit, the collector shall
be compensated at the rate of $.85 per month per unit serviced;
         (B)   For each multi-family commercial unit that is a residential
condominium unit, a cooperative unit, a multi-family residential unit, or a
trailer court/trailer park unit, the collector shall be compensated at the rate
of $.64 per month per unit serviced; and
         (C)   For each multi-family commercial unit that is a condominium
recreational vehicle unit, the collector shall be compensated at the rate of
$.33 per month per unit serviced.
   (b)   The collector shall be responsible for the billing and collection of
receivables from commercial/institutional customers. A deposit equal to one
month's charges will be paid on all new accounts by the customer to Collector.
The deposit may be applied to any account not paid within 30 days or upon
request of a customer terminating service, the deposit may be applied to any
outstanding charges due.
   (c)   A delinquent charge of 1.5% per month may be charged by the collector
on the balance of any account unpaid after 30 days from the billing date. In
the event any account is not fully paid (cost of collection of solid waste and
recyclable materials) within 30 days from the billing date, the account shall
be deemed delinquent.
      (1)   No service shall be terminated until the collector has accomplished
the following:
         (A)   The owner of the account and the recipient of collection
services shall be sent a notice to said owner's address as shown on the account
and to said collection recipient's residence address prior to termination of
collection service because of non-payment, advising the owner and the recipient
of collection services of their right to protest the billing amount for good
cause shown, the need to make payment, or the need to otherwise seek an
adjustment of the bill, and that service will be discontinued within ten days,
if the owner/recipient has not made other arrangement or adjustment of the bill
with the collector.
         (B)   If not paid within ten days from the receipt of termination
notice, collection service may be ceased by the collector and the Town Manager
or his or her designee shall be notified.
      (2)   Any delinquent account may be reinstated upon payment of the past
due balance, any delinquent fee, and a $15.00 reinstatement fee and the
necessary deposit. Service shall resume upon the next scheduled pick-up after
notice has been given to the collector.
   (d)   Commencing with all new accounts opened after the effective date of
the franchise agreement with the collector, the collector shall request but not
require each customer to agree in writing that the furnishing of collection
services neither is nor creates a property or constitutional interest or right.
The collector shall maintain the written statement of the customer on file for
at least four years after the termination of service.
   (e)   The Collector shall bill all commercial/institutional accounts on a
monthly basis in advance subject to prices established in this code and the
franchise agreement.
§ 47-8. ROLL-OFF CONTAINER CUSTOMER RATES AND BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Billing for customers utilizing roll-off containers will be the
responsibility of the collector. Roll-off accounts shall be billed bi-monthly
by the collector.
   (b)   The collector shall be required, if requested by the customer, to
furnish a roll-off containers or an enclosed compactable-type container to meet
the customer's needs.
   (c)   The fee for open top roll-off charges per pull shall be:
      (1)   (A)   15 cubic yards - $154 per pull.
         (B)   20 cubic yards - $192 per pull.
         (C)   30 cubic yards - $215 per pull.
         (D)   40 cubic yards - $221 per pull.
The maintenance fee on all roll-off containers will be $89.00 per month for
each container.
      (2)   Enclosed Compactor Type:
         (A)   20 cubic yards or less - $178 per pull.
         (B)   21 - 40 cubic yards - $205 per pull.
The above rates are based on disposal at the Brevard County Landfill and do not
include taxes, leasing/maintenance fees and disposal fees, all which will be
added to the final charge for the roll-off container.
      (3)   The collector is authorized to charge an additional fee of up to
$62.50 per trip should disposal at the Brevard County disposal site in Cocoa,
Florida be required.
   (d)   Charges shall be disclosed to the customer prior to delivery of the
roll-off container. There will be a $15.00 franchise fee payable to the Town
for each roll-off pull made by a collector within the town. This fee is
included within the above referenced fees set forth in this section.
   (e)   A deposit equal to one month's estimated charges will be paid on all
new or reinstated delinquent accounts by the customer to the collector. The
deposit may be applied to any account not paid within 30 days or upon request
of a user terminating service, the deposit may be applied to any outstanding
charges.
   (f)   All deposits shall be placed in an account which shall be fully
insured and in a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or a
savings and loan association insured by the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
Deposits shall be refunded upon customer request following one year of timely
customer payment or upon termination of service by the customer, whichever
shall first occur.
   (g)    A delinquent charge of 1.5% per month may be charged on the balance
of any account unpaid after 30 days from the billing date. In the event any
account is not fully paid within 50 days from the billing date, the account
shall be deemed delinquent.
      (1)   The customer shall be sent a written notice of delinquency. If any
delinquent account is not paid in full within ten days after the billing of
such notice, collection service shall cease.
      (2)   Any delinquent account may be reinstated upon payment of the past
due balance, any delinquent fee, a $15.00 reinstatement fee, and the necessary
deposit. Service shall resume upon the next scheduled pick-up after notice has
been given to the collector.
§ 47-9. CHANGE IN COST OF DOING BUSINESS; UNUSUAL COSTS OR CHARGES.
   (a)   The compensation payable to a collector for the second and subsequent
years of the term of a franchise agreement shall be adjusted and increased on
the first day of the second year of a franchise agreement and every one year
anniversary thereafter (the “adjustment dates”). The increases of additional
compensation shall, however, be subject to adjustments on each adjustment date,
as set forth below.
      (1)   The collector shall advise the Town Commission and customer of the
percent amount of increases pursuant to this section at least 30 days before
the customer must remit the amount to the collector.
      (2)   Beginning with the first adjustment date thereafter (including any
renewal terms, if any), the base compensation shall be adjusted annually and
shall be equal to the base compensation for the immediately preceding year of
the franchise multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the index
most recently reported as of such adjustment date, and the denominator of which
is the index reported 12 months earlier. By way of example, if the franchise
commences on May 1, 1990 and the second year begins on May 1, 1991, the
numerator of the fraction referred to above shall be based on the most recent
Consumer Price Index (CPI) available as of May 1, 1991, and the denominator of
the fraction shall be the index as of May 1, 1990.
         (A)   For the purposes of this section and any franchise, “index”
shall mean the index numbers of retail commodity prices designated “Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumer U.S. City Average All Items” (1982-1984=100)
prepared by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Any
publication by either the U.S. Department of Labor or the U.S. Department of
Commerce in which such index numbers are published shall be admissible in
evidence in any legal or judicial proceeding involving a franchise without
further proof of authenticity.
         (B)   In the event that the U.S. Department of Labor ceases to update
the index, the adjustment of base compensation thereafter shall be according to
the most closely comparable commodity index published by the U.S. Department of
Labor; and if such is not determined by that Department, then the most closely
comparable commodity index as determined by agreement of the collector and the
town. In the absence of agreement, the index to be used shall be determined by
arbitration in accordance with then existing rules of the American Arbitration
Association in which three arbitrators shall hear the matter.
   (b)   In addition to the foregoing annual adjustment, the collector shall be
entitled to an automatic increase in the fees or compensation sufficient to
offset the amount of any fee, surcharge, duty, tax, or other charges of any
nature imposed by the federal government, any agency thereof; the State of
Florida, any agency thereof; or by any local governmental agency which is
payable solely by reason of the nature of the operations conducted by the
collector and any other sales or service taxes of general application to the
operation of the landfill. The collector shall provide all facts, figures,
calculations, and writings upon which the collector relied in computing any
such increase to the town. After review of said facts, figures, calculations
and writing, the Town Commission shall consider approval of the amount of any
fee or compensation increase prior to imposition of any such increase in fees
or compensation upon customers. Prior to imposing said fee, the collector shall
give notice thereof to all customers.
   (c)   The collector shall provide for the disposal of all solid waste at the
landfill. It is understood that Brevard County currently bills commercial and
residential customers, but not roll-off container customers for disposal at the
landfill. Should the county change its billing system as described such that
additional costs are incurred by the Collector, the collector may be allowed to
adjust rates in the manner provided in division (b) of this section. If after
reasonable consideration by the Town Commission, approval is not given, the
collector shall have the option to terminate its franchise agreement with
respect to residential, commercial, institutional, or roll-off container
customers, upon not less than 90 days notice given to the town following
disapproval by the Town Commission.
   (d)   In the event the federal government, State of Florida, the county or
any governing agency individually impose a fuel tax on vehicles of an
additional ten cents ($.10) per gallon or more, the collector will have the
right to pass on the tax to the customer upon application to the town for
approval. If approval is not given, the collector shall have the option to
terminate the franchise agreement upon 90 days notice with respect to
residential, commercial, institutional or roll-off container customers.
   (e)   Should the Brevard County landfill have a catastrophe, relocate or
close so as to cause the collector additional cost, these costs can be
submitted with documentation to the town for approval of charges to be added to
the customer's bills in order to offset the additional expense to collector. If
after reasonable consideration by the Town Commission, approval is not given,
the collector shall have the option to terminate its franchise agreement with
respect to residential, commercial, institutional, or roll-off container
customers, upon not less than 90 days notice given to the town following
disapproval by the Town Commission.
   (f)   The collector may petition the town at any time for additional rate
adjustments on the basis of unusual charges in the costs of operations. The
town shall have the right, as a condition of any approval, to demand
inspections by itself and/or an independent auditor of pertinent records that
demonstrate the need for an adjustment to the rates. If such rate adjustments
are not approved by the town, the collector shall have the option to terminate
its franchise agreement with respect to residential, commercial, institutional,
or roll-off customers, upon not less than 90 days notice given to the town
following disapproval by the Town Commission.
   (g)   In the event excessive amounts of solid waste, debris, trash or refuse
has accumulated by reason of any storm, freeze, natural disaster, severe
disturbance, riot or other calamity, the collector shall, within five working
days, submit a certified estimate to the Town Manager of additional payroll
costs, equipment and disposal costs to remove and dispose of the excessive
solid waste, debris or refuse. The collector shall submit such estimate for
review and approval prior to performing this additional work. The Town
Commissioners shall determine the validity of the collector's estimate and, if
approved, the Town Manager shall furnish written approval to the collector
before any bill may be submitted to the town for payment. However,
consideration of this estimate shall not bind the town to use the collector to
clean up the debris.
   (h)   The collector may petition the town for rate adjustments due to a
change in charges for billing by the City of Melbourne. This shall not bind the
town to approve same.
§ 47-10. HOURS OF OPERATION FOR COLLECTION; COLLECTOR'S PERSONNEL; COLLECTOR'S
EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   The hours of operation for collection services shall be from 7:00 a.m.
until 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, holidays excepted, and 7:00 a.m. until
7:00 p.m. holidays, Saturdays and Sundays to the extent that the franchise
shall require or allow service on holidays, Saturdays or Sundays.
   (b)   The collector's collection employees shall at all times wear clean
uniforms and shirts bearing the collector's name. Each driver shall, at all
times, carry a valid driver's license which satisfies all state and local
requirements for the operation of the vehicle under his control. The collector
shall provide operating and safety training for all personnel. Wages of all
employees of the collector shall equal or exceed the minimum hourly wages
established by local, state or federal governments and shall otherwise satisfy
all governmental regulations regarding labor and employment. No person shall be
denied employment by the collector for reasons of race, sex, handicap, creed,
color or religion.
   (c)   The collector shall have on hand at all times, in good working order,
such equipment as shall permit the collector adequately and efficiently, to
perform its duties hereunder. Equipment shall be purchased from nationally
known and recognized manufacturers of garbage collection and disposal
equipment. The collector shall use only vehicles with bodies which are water-
tight to a depth of not less than 12 inches, have solid metal sides and a fully
enclosed metal top and pneumatic tires for the collection of garbage and trash.
The collector shall use clam shell trucks for collection of limos, trash, and
refuse. All equipment shall be kept in good repair, appearance and in a
sanitary, clean condition at all times. Reserve equipment which can be put into
service and operation within one hour of any breakdown, shall be maintained and
kept available for use within the town. Such reserve equipment shall
substantially correspond, in size and capability, to the equipment used by the
collector to perform its duties hereunder.
§ 47-11. HAZARDOUS WASTES.
   (a)   No customer shall place or deposit hazardous waste at any solid waste
collection point or in any place where it might reasonably be expected to be
collected and transported to the landfill, by the collector.
   (b)   The collector shall refuse to collect solid waste from a customer if
the collector reasonably believes that such solid waste contains hazardous
waste for collection.
§ 47-12. GENERAL PROVISIONS OF ANY FRANCHISE AGREEMENT WITH A COLLECTOR.
   (a)   A collector shall conduct operations under a franchise in compliance
with all applicable laws.
   (b)   All dealings and contracts between a collector and the town shall be
between the Town Manager, or his or her designee so designated in writing, on
behalf of the town and a person designated in the franchise agreement by the
collector.
   (c)   A collector operating under a franchise agreement with the town shall
not assign, underlet or sublet the franchise or any part thereof without the
written consent of the Town Commission, and in the event such consent shall be
gained, the collector shall be liable for the faithful performance of the terms
under which the franchise is granted for the remainder of the term of the
franchise. The Town Commission may disapprove any assignment, subletting or
underletting for any reason or no reason.
   (d)   Employees of the collector shall not be required to pickup solid
waste, if homeowners or tenants have a vicious animal as so declared by Brevard
County which is not properly leashed or otherwise restrained, so as not to
interfere with the collector's responsibilities under its franchise agreement.
   (e)   All non-confidential records of the collector which are related
directly or indirectly in relation to the performance of a franchise agreement,
any duties, obligations, or responsibilities pursuant to the agreement, or
voluntarily undertaken pursuant to the agreement or in connection with the
agreement shall be deemed to be public records, if so deemed under Florida law
and Chapter 119, Florida Statutes, as amended from time to time. Confidential
records shall include matters related to the cost of the service provided under
the franchise agreement, the profit and loss of the collector, payroll, vendor
payments, and all other documents that contain competitive information. During
the term of the franchise agreement and for five years after termination of the
agreement, the collector shall not dispose of said documents or records. Upon
request by the Town, the collector shall supply copies of said public records
to the town without cost to the town.
§ 47-13. BREACH OF FRANCHISE.
   (a)   If a collector fails to be at work at the time specified, disregards
the laws, regulations, ordinances or instructions of the town or of other
governmental agencies having jurisdiction within the town, over the landfill,
or over the transportation of solid waste; repeatedly fails to provide
sufficient trained, competent, and physically able workers and equipment to
insure the proper completion of the residential unit collection by 7:00 p.m.
each day; performs the work unsatisfactorily in the town's reasonable
determination; fails to collect solid waste, recyclable materials, special
waste or construction or demolition debris on a regular schedule as set forth
in the franchise agreement; discontinues the prosecution of the work without
authorization by the Town; becomes insolvent or declares bankruptcy or commits
any act of bankruptcy or insolvency, or allows final judgement arising out of
performance of the franchise to stand against him unsatisfied for a period of
ten days or otherwise breaches the franchise agreement with the town, the town
may consider such action a breach of franchise and give notice to the collector
and his surety of such breach. In the event the collector has not used or taken
all reasonable steps to effect a cure within 20 days after such notice, the
franchise shall terminate effective immediately.
   (b)   All terms of a franchise agreement shall be considered material.
Failure of the town to enforce or demand correction of any breach of a
franchise agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the right to seek
enforcement of the agreement or to deem same to have been breached. A collector
shall be required to waive any defense of laches or waiver.
   (c)   The collector shall furnish to the town a performance bond for the
faithful performance of a franchise agreement and all obligations arising
thereunder, all in an amount as set forth in said agreement. It shall be
executed by a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Florida.
   (d)   The collector shall be required to hold the town and its officials,
employees and agents harmless from any damages to any person or property that
may occur in the collection or transportation of solid waste within the town,
which arise from the negligent acts or omissions of collector.
      (1)   The following coverage shall be in effect: Public Liability,
$1,000,000 per person and $2,500,000 per accident; Property Damage, $200,000
per any one claim. The foregoing coverage shall not exclude and shall
specifically include coverage for violation of any civil rights actions brought
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 1983. The insurance carrier with whom the
insurance is placed shall be reasonably acceptable to the Town, licensed by the
State of Florida to carry on insurance activities as set forth in this chapter,
and rated as “A+” or better by Best's Rating Guide. The Town shall be named as
loss payee in any policy set forth in this division (d)(1). The policy shall
include a non-cancellation clause, unless at least 30 days notice is first
extended to the town and in the event of cancellation, the collector shall be
required to promptly secure a new insurance policy meeting the requirements of
this division.
      (2)   The collector shall provide and maintain during the term of a
franchise agreement: commercial/automobile/truck insurance and, worker's
compensation insurance, in accordance with the laws of the State of Florida for
all its employees.
      (3)   A Certificate of Insurance shall be filed and maintained with the
town by the insurance carrier showing such insurance to be in force at all
times. The collector also indemnifies and holds the town and its officials,
employees and agents from any and all liability, causes of action, court order
damages, including attorney's fees and court costs or loss arising directly or
indirectly from or by virtue of the exclusive grant of a franchise to a
collector, if given, including, but not limited to, any and all liabilities
that might arise under State and Federal antitrust, civil rights, or racketeer-
influenced and corruption (RICO) laws. If a court of competent jurisdiction
declares an exclusive franchise agreement is a violation of state or federal
RICO, civil rights or anti-trust laws, the town shall have the power to void
the franchise agreement without penalty, but such avoidance shall in no way
waive, terminate or lessen the obligation of the collector to indemnify and
hold harmless the town as set forth above. Further, in defending or in
prosecuting any action pursuant to a franchise agreement or otherwise enforcing
its rights to indemnification, whether the town be insured or not, the
collector shall agree for itself and any insurer to the right of the town to
have the services of such competent attorneys as the town shall deem to be
reasonably necessary, and the fee of such attorneys shall be covered by the
insurance and indemnification required above.
§ 47-14. COMPLAINTS.
   The collector shall perform a service of high quality and keep the number of
legitimate complaints to a minimum. Complaints received before 12:00 noon each
day shall be serviced by no later than 5:00 p.m. that day. Complaints received
after 12:00 noon each day shall be serviced by no later than 12:00 noon the
following day. For each month in which the number of legitimate complaints
reaches 20 or more for any cause, the town shall be entitled to claim
liquidated damages to $10.00 per complaint, but this provision shall in no way
be construed to be a waiver by the customer or the town of any performance of
any responsibility by the collector under a franchise agreement. Each claim
shall be considered legitimate unless disposition reasonably satisfactory of
the claim is furnished to the town within the time frame set forth in this
section. A record of each complaint and disposition thereof shall be submitted
to the Town Manager monthly.
§ 47-15. CUSTOMER DUTIES.
   All garbage receptacles must be placed at the curb on the designated
collection day by 7:00 a.m. in the morning. There are no limits to the number
of receptacles or plastic bags the customer can use to deposit solid waste
(excluding yard trash). There is no limit to the numbers of containers or the
quantity of (yard) trash that will be picked up by the collector; provided that
the (yard) trash is prepared as required by this article and any relevant
franchise agreement. Plastic bags for collection of solid waste (excluding yard
trash) must be of sufficient strength to hold the contents so as not to tear
when being placed in the truck. All yard trash must be containerized,
preferably in reusable containers. Plastic bags shall not be used for the
collection of (yard) trash. Tree trimmings and palm fronds shall be tied in
bundles not to exceed four feet in length, 12 inches in diameter, and not
weighing more than 50 pounds and placed at the curb for pick-up. Yard trash
must be separated from other types of solid waste for pickup. Household junk
(white goods), such as stoves, hot water heaters and refrigerators with doors
removed, will be collected within 72 hours after a customer calls the
collector. In the event the county landfill will no longer accept household
junk, white goods or similar materials, the collector will, with notice given,
not be required to collect these items. In the event the landfill imposes a fee
to dispose of household junk, white goods, or similar materials, the collector
will be permitted to pass along the disposal fee; provided always, that the
collector shall, before collecting such items, advise the customer in writing
of the existence of the fee and the amount to be charged by the landfill. The
collector shall not charge any extra fee over and above the pro-rata fee
charged by the landfill to the customer.
(Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 6-17-92)
§ 47-16. COST INCREASES.
   Any fee increases imposed upon customers as a result of a cost increase
contemplated by the foregoing provisions hereof shall not exceed the proportion
by which such cost increase is incurred by the collector in connection with
services provided pursuant to a town approved franchise bears to similar
services provided to other customers of the collector that are likewise
affected by the same cost increase.
§ 47-17. CONTAINERS FROM MULTI-FAMILY UNITS.
   All multi-family areas of six units or more must have a bulk refuse
container for garbage and trash collection and disposal. Lids on bulk refuse
containers must be kept closed at all times except when depositing refuse.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-l 3-86)
§ 47-18. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)   Commercial containerization. All commercial, business, and
institutional establishments shall store their trash in containers so as to
eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter in and about their
establishment. Approved methods of containerization include garbage cans with
lids, bulk containers, portable packing units, and roll-off containers. All
containers must have lids or covers. Covers must be kept closed at all times
except when depositing refuse. Spillage and overflow shall be immediately
cleaned by the owner, occupant, or lessee of the business or commercial
establishment.
   (b)   Loading and unloading docks. It shall be unlawful for any person
maintaining a loading or unloading area to fail to provide trash and garbage
receptacles for loose debris, paper, packing materials, and other trash. The
number of containers necessary for each loading and unloading dock shall be as
required to maintain a clean, neat, sanitary premise.
   (c)   Cardboard cartons. Cardboard cartons which are bound for recycling
must be picked up on a scheduled basis.
   (d)   Maintenance of premises. All owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of
a commercial, business, or institutional establishment shall maintain their
property in a clean and litter-free manner, including sidewalks, parking lots,
grass strips, and contiguous alleys, curbs, or rights-of-way up to the edge of
the pavement of any public street. No person shall sweep into or deposit in any
street, sidewalk, or storm drain the accumulation of litter from any building
or property.
   (e)   Litter receptacles. Any owner, tenant, occupant, or lessee of a
business, commercial, or institutional establishment, where public parking is
provided and the potential for litter generation exists, shall provide litter
receptacles as defined in this chapter. Such receptacles shall be weighted or
secured to prevent spillage.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-13-86)
§ 47-19. PUBLIC LITTERING.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, discard, place, or deposit litter
(garbage, trash, or other solid waste) in any manner or amount:
      (1)   In or on any public highway, road, street, storm drain, alley or
thoroughfare, including any portion of the right-of-way thereof; or any other
public lands, except in containers or areas lawfully provided for litter or
trash collection. When any litter is thrown or discarded from a motor vehicle,
the operator or owner of the motor vehicle, or both, shall be deemed in
violation of §§
47-18 and
47-19.
      (2)   In or on any private property, unless prior consent of the owner
has been given and only then if the litter will not cause a public nuisance or
health violation, and/or safety hazard.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-13-86)
§ 47-20. HANDBILL AND NEWSPAPER DISTRIBUTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to distribute or cause to be distributed
handbills or newspapers within the town in such a manner as to create litter.
   (b)   No person shall throw, scatter, or cast any kind of handbill or
newspaper in or upon any public place within the town. It shall be lawful for
any person to hand out or distribute handbills or newspapers in any public
place to any person willing to accept such a handbill or newspaper
   (c)   No person shall deposit, fasten, throw, scatter or cast any handbill
or newspaper in or upon any vehicle. This provision shall not prohibit the
handing of any handbill or newspaper to the owner or occupant of any vehicle if
the person is willing to accept the handbill or newspaper.
   (d)   Any person distributing handbills or newspapers shall maintain the
area which they are utilizing free of any litter caused by the handbill or
newspaper distribution.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be
distributed any commercial handbill in any place, under any circumstances,
which does not have printed on the handbill the names and addresses of the
person, business, or other organization represented in the commercial handbill
or soliciting through the commercial handbill.
   (f)   No person shall place or cause to be placed any handbill or newspaper
in or upon any premises if they have been requested in writing by the owner or
occupant thereon not to do so.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-13-86)
§ 47-21. CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITES.
   (a)   Receptacles required. Loose debris, paper, building material waste,
scrap material and other trash produced by those working on the construction or
demolition site shall be contained. The number of containers required at the
work site and the frequency of disposal shall be determined by the volume of
refuse produced.
   (b)   Adjacent areas. Dirt, sand, construction materials or other debris
cast or scattered upon any adjacent public or private property as a result of
construction or demolition activities shall be removed by the construction or
demolition site contractor not later than the end of the work day of the
incident or earlier if the materials shall cause a public nuisance.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-13-86)
§ 47-22. FLORIDA LITTER LAW.
   Violations of this chapter which are also violations of the Florida Litter
Law, Section 403.413, Florida Statutes, and shall be enforced in accordance
with those powers outlined in the Florida Litter Law, which law is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 5-13-86)
§ 47-23. GRANT OF A FRANCHISE; FRANCHISE REQUIRED; GENERAL FRANCHISE
PROVISIONS; TERM OF FRANCHISE. 
   (a)   Grant of franchise. The town can grant revocable and non-exclusive or
exclusive franchises to operate recycling, collection, removal, or disposal of
solid waste material, construction and demolition debris, or recyclable
materials in the town, and in, under, over, along, across or upon the public
rights-of-way within the town. The grant of one franchise does not establish
priority for use over the other present or future permit or franchise holders.
   (b)   Event of conflict. In the event of conflict between the terms and
conditions of this code and the franchise, the franchise agreement shall
control. In all events, the franchisee shall comply with all laws, ordinances
and regulations enacted by the town pursuant to its lawful police and
regulatory powers as authorized by law.
   (c)   General code provisions. Any franchise granted by the town is hereby
made subject to the general code provisions now in effect and hereafter made
effective. Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive the requirements
of the various codes of the town regarding permits, taxes, fees to be paid, or
manner of construction.
   (d)   Term of franchise. The term of the franchise shall commence upon
execution of the franchise by the town and the franchisee, unless otherwise
provided in the franchise agreement, shall continue for a period specified in
the franchise, unless sooner terminated as provided herein or in the franchise
agreement.
   (e)   Franchise required. No person operating a business for the recycling,
collection, removal, or disposal of solid waste material, construction and
demolition debris, or recyclable materials in the town, shall operate said
business nor use the public rights-of-way without a franchise.
   (f)   Time is of the essence to this code. Whenever the code shall set forth
any time for any act to be performed by or on behalf of the franchisee, such
time shall be deemed to be of the essence, and any failure of the franchisee to
perform within the time allotted shall be sufficient ground for the town to
invoke any applicable provision of the code and franchise agreement.
   (g)   No waiver of rights. No course of dealing between the franchisee and
the town nor any delay on the part of the town in exercising any rights
hereunder shall operate as a waiver of any such rights of the town or
acquiescence in the actions of the franchisee in contravention of the town's
rights, except to the extent expressly waived by the town or expressly provided
for in the franchise.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 2-18-98)
§ 47-24. FRANCHISE FEES ON COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (a)   Payment of franchise fee required. All businesses engaged in
collection, removal, or disposal of solid waste material and operating within
the town and who are franchisees shall pay to the town a franchise fee in an
amount as designated in the franchise agreement, but in no event shall that fee
be less than 5% of the gross annual revenues derived from commercial and
residential solid waste collection and removal, which payments shall exclude
bad debts, taxes and fees collected by the franchisee on behalf of any
governmental entity. Franchise fees on roll-on/roll-off and construction
debris, and recycling shall be as negotiated between a franchisee and the town.
Unless otherwise provided for in the franchise agreement, the franchise payment
shall become effective on the next customer billing cycle after 60 days from
the effective date of the franchise. If in the future, the Town Commission
approves a change in the franchise fee, as authorized by a franchise agreement,
the town shall within 30 days of adoption of said rate forward a copy of same
to the franchisee.
   (b)   Franchise fees in addition to other taxes or payments. Payment of the
franchise fee made by the franchisee to the town shall not be considered in the
nature of a tax, but shall be in addition to any and all taxes of general
applicability which are now or may be rendered hereafter to be paid by any
federal, state or local law.
   (c)   Acceptance by the town. Subject to applicable law, no acceptance of
any payment by the town shall be construed as a release or as an accord and
satisfaction of any claim the town may have for further or additional sums
payable as a franchise fee under this code or for the performance of any other
obligation of the franchisee.
   (d)   Failure to make required payment. In the event that any franchise
payment or recomputed amount is not made on or before the dates specified
herein, the franchisee shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge,
computed from such due date, at an annualized rate equal to the commercial
prime interest rate of the town's primary depository bank during the period
that such unpaid amount is owed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no interest
shall be charged on customer accounts miscoded by the franchisee. As used in
this code, PRIME RATE shall mean the annual rate of interest announced from
time to time by the town's depository bank at the time interest is assessed.
This rate may not be the best or lowest rate utilized by the depository bank.
This variable rate as applied shall be adjusted on the date the prime rate
changes.
   (e)   Periodic payments to be made. The franchisee shall make fee payments
of monies due hereunder within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter for
franchise fees collected during the preceding quarter. Accompanying said
payment, the franchisee shall also report its gross revenues by type of service
within the town (e.g.- commercial solid waste disposal and removal, residential
solid waste disposal and removal, removal of construction and demolition
debris, and recycling) for the preceding quarter's period. Unless otherwise
provided in a franchise agreement, quarter's shall end on the last day of
September, December, March, and June of each year.
   (f)   Payments due in event of termination or expiration. In the event that
the franchisee continues the operation of any part or all of the solid waste or
other collection or recycling beyond the termination, revocation, or expiration
of the franchise granted, it shall continue to pay to the town the franchise
fee in the manner set forth in this code. This sub-section shall not be
construed to authorize the operation of a franchise beyond the termination,
revocation, or expiration of the franchise.
   (g)   Alternative fee contingencies. In the event that the franchisee's
obligation to pay a franchise fee is held invalid by a decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction or due to the actions of any legislative body, the
franchisee shall negotiate with the town in good faith and shall agree to
provide compensation to the town in lieu of the franchise fee. The amount of
compensation shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, as amended from
time to time, be comparable to that which the franchisee would have otherwise
paid as the franchise fee under the terms of the franchise agreement.
   (h)   Other fees and taxes. To the extent that any federal or state law or
regulation may now forbid the town from assessing any type of fee or tax, upon
repeal, modification, or judicial interpretation of said law or rule that would
permit the town to assess said fee or tax, the town shall have the right to
assess said fee or tax to the full extent authorized by law; provided, that the
town shall first consult with the franchisee. If applicable law is modified to
allow a fee or tax, the parties shall meet and confer within 90 days of notice
from the town to in good faith negotiate franchise provisions to implement the
collection of said fee or tax.
   (i)   Town's right to inspections. The town shall have the right to inspect
the franchisee's records related to gross revenue records, to audit, and to
recompute any fee amounts. No audit of the franchisee's records relating to
gross annual revenues shall take place later than 36 months following the close
of each of the franchisee's fiscal years. Audits that result in payment of 5%
or more of franchise fees during the audit period, shall be at the expense of
the franchisee. Any additional amount due to the town as a result of the audit
shall be paid within 30 days of notice by the town, unless the franchisee
disputes the results of the audit. The franchisee agrees to meet with the town
and will attempt in good faith to resolve any differences. Thereafter, the
additional amount due shall be subject to payment within 30 days after said
additional amount is determined to be due by the franchisee and the town, or
the town declares an impasse in the negotiations with the franchisee.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 2-18-98)
§§ 47-25. – 47-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 48: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
48-1   Unusual and loud noise prohibited
   
48-2   Penalty
   
48-3   Measurement of sound
   
48-4   Maximum permissible sound levels in residential use category
   
48-5   Noise level exemptions
   
48-6   Other noise
   
48-7   Special permits for relief of maximum allowable noise levels
   
48-8   Penalties
   48-9 – 48-99   Reserved
§ 48-1. UNUSUAL AND LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED. 
   It shall be unlawful, except as expressly permitted in this chapter, to
make, cause or allow the making of any noise or sound in such a manner as to
create a noise disturbance.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-2. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning. All terminology used in this chapter
which is not defined below. shall be in conformance with applicable
publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its
successor body.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is
designated dBA.
   AMBIENT NOISE. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources.
   BUILDING LINE. An imaginary line extending at a 90-degree angle from the
right-of-way to the nearest corner of a building.
   C-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the C-weighted network. The level so read is
designated dBC.
   DECIBEL. A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20 times the
logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to
the reference pressure, which is 20 micrometers per square meter.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or eminent peril.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
   For purposes of this definition. any sound that exceeds the maximum
permissible sound levels set forth in Section
48-4 of this chapter shall constitute a noise disturbance per se. It is the
intent and purpose of this definition that sounds that either meet the
aforesaid criteria or exceed the sound levels in Section
48-4 shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   ORIGINATING PROPERTY. The property from which any sound originates.
   RECEIVING PROPERTY. Property into which any sound is projected other than
the originating property.
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
metering characteristic and weighting A, B, or C as specified in American
National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters, ANSI S1.4-
1983, or in successor publications. If the weighting employed is not indicated,
the A-weighting shall apply.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument. which includes a microphone, amplifier,
RMS detector, integrator or time averager, output meter, and weighing networks
used to measure sound pressure levels. The output meter reads sound pressure
levels when properly calibrated, and the instrument is to type 2 or better, as
specified in the American National Standards Institute Publications, S1.4-1983,
or its successor publications.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of
the RMS sound pressure level to the reference of 20 micronewtons per square
meter.
   TESTING PROTOCOL. Shall be at least two 15 second readings taken from a
receiving property as provided herein. In cases where the town has received a
complaint regarding sound levels, the readings shall be taken from the property
from which the complaint is made, if known. In cases where the town has
received no complaint or where the location of the complainant is not known,
the readings shall be taken from the right-of-way adjacent to the nearest
developed receiving property to the originating property from approximately the
point at which the building line nearest to the originating property intersects
the right-of-way.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Melbourne Beach or the
manager's designee.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-3. MEASUREMENT OF SOUND.
   Standards, instrumentation, measurement procedures, and instrumentation
maintenance used in the measurement of sound shall be in accordance with ANSI
S1.4-1983 or its successor publications. Town personnel that will be taking
sound level measurements shall be trained to use sound testing devices.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-4. MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS IN RESIDENTIAL USE CATEGORY.
   No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit the operation of any source
of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level that exceeds the sound
level limits listed in Table 1 when measured beyond the originating property's
property line. Sound or noise projecting from one zoning district into another
zoning district with a different decibel level limit shall not exceed the
limits of the zoning district into which the noise is projected when measured
from within such receiving zoning district. Sound pressure levels in excess of
those established in Table 1 shall constitute prima facie evidence that such
sound is in violation of this chapter. The sound shall be measured using the
"A" and "C" scale in slow time constant. In circumstances where the ambient
noise level is equal to or exceeds the sound pressure levels established in
Table 1, the ambient noise level shall represent the maximum sound pressure
level for purposes of performing the measurement provided for herein.
TABLE 1
MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS FOR RESIDENTIAL USE CATEGORY
 
Use Occupancy Time                  Maximum Sound Level Maximum Sound Level
Category                            Limit- dBA          Limit- dBC
Residential1  7:00 a.m.- 10:00 p.m. 60                  65
             10:00 p.m.- 7:00 a.m. 55                  60
1The town’s zoning map shall be relied upon for purposes of defining
residential use properties.
 
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-5. NOISE LEVEL EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from this article's noise
level regulations except as listed in Table 1.
   (a)   Air conditioners when functioning in accord with the manufacturers'
specifications, standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in
proper operating condition according to standards promulgated by the American
Refrigeration Institute. The same exception sha1l apply to lawn mowers.
landscaping equipment, and agricultural equipment during daylight hours.
   (b)   Non-amplified crowd noises resulting from activities such as those
planned by student. governmental or community groups.
   (c)   Construction operations for which building permits have been issued,
or construction operations not requiring permits due to ownership of the
project by an agency of government; providing all equipment is operated in
accord with the manufacturers' specifications and with all standard equipment,
mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition.
   (d)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief
valves and bells and chimes of churches.
   (e)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   (f)   Noises resulting from emergency work including the operation of a
generator.
   (g)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a permit therefore has been granted by the city
in accordance with this chapter. Regulation of noises emanating from operations
under permit shall be according to the conditions and limits stated on the
permit and contained in this chapter.
   (h)   Noises made by persons having obtained a permit to use the streets.
   (i)   All noises coming from the normal operations of aircraft (not
including scale model aircraft).
   (j)   Motor vehicles defined in F.S. Ch. 316.
   (k)   All noises generated by the Town and its agents and/or from Town
sponsored events.
   (l)   All noises generated during the July 4th holiday from fireworks.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-6. OTHER NOISE.
   (a)   With the exception of those exemptions provided by state law, noises
prohibited by this section are unlawful, notwithstanding the fact that no
violation of Section
48-4 is involved. and notwithstanding the fact that the activity complained
about is exempted in Section 48-5.
   (b)   Thus, the following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile or
other vehicle, except as a danger warning;
      (2)   The creation by means of any signaling device of any unreasonably
loud or harsh sound;
      (3)   The sounding of any signaling device for any unnecessary or
unreasonable period of time; and the unreasonable use of any signaling device.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-7. SPECIAL PERMITS FOR RELIEF OF MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE NOISE LEVELS.
   (a)   Applications for a special permit for relief from the maximum
allowable noise level limits designated in this chapter may be made in writing
to the Town Manager. Any special permit granted by the Town Manager hereunder
must be approved in writing prior to issuance of a special permit and shall
contain all conditions upon which said special permit shall be effective.
   (b)   The Town Manager may grant the relief as applied for under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The Town Manager may require the applicant to exhaust all
technically reasonable abatement measures before a special permit is issued.
These abatement measures shall be selected and installed by the applicant at
his/her own risk.
      (2)   Special permits may be granted for the purpose of entertainment
that exceeds the maximum allowable noise levels established in this chapter
under the following conditions:
         a.   The function must be open to the public (admission may be
charged).
         b.   The function must take place on public property.
         c.   The special permit will be given for only four hours in one 24-
hour day.
         d.   The function shall be staged between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m.
      (3)   Special permits for non-entertainment special purposes may be
issued under any of the following conditions:
         a.   If the special purpose relates to the operation of a trade or
business, that the special purpose not be in the ordinary course of that trade
or business; or if the special purpose does not relate to the operation of a
trade or business, that the special purpose not be an ordinary event in the
affairs of the applicant;
         b.   If the special purpose is a recurring purpose. that it not recur
more often than four times each calendar year;
         c.   That the special purpose be absolutely necessary to the operation
of the applicant's trade or business; or if the special purpose does not relate
to the operation of the trade or business, that the special purpose be
compatible with the ordinary activities of the neighborhood in which the
special purpose is to occur;
         d.   Except in emergency situations, as determined by the Town
Manager, the special permit may be issued only four hours between 8:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m. on weekdays; or
         e.   Special permits may be issued for no longer than 15 consecutive
days, renewable by further application to the Town Manager.
      (4)   No special permit shall be issued to permit the use of any
loudspeaker or sound amplifying device on the exterior of any building, which
at any time exceeds the sound level limits in Table 1, except those used for
emergency warnings.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 48-8. PENALTIES.
   (a)   Each violation of this chapter shall carry the following civil
penalties:
      (1)   First violation within a 180-day period, a written warning and
notice to cure.
      (2)   Second violation within a 180-day period, a citation in the amount
of $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations within a 180-day period, a citation
in the amount of $500.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer commissioned by the Town of Melbourne
Beach or the Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Melbourne Beach has reason
to believe that any person is in violation of any provision of this chapter, it
shall be cause for the issuance of a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2024-06, adopted 2-19-25)
§§ 48-9. – 48-99 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 49: NUISANCES
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
49-1   State Sanitary Code adopted
   
49-2   Cleaning and depositing fish on public property prohibited
   
49-3   Discharge of certain water into public sewer system and streets
prohibited; enforcement
   49-4 – 49-9   Reserved
Article II. Sanitary Nuisances
   
49-10   Definition
   
49-11   Power of Health Officer to determine existence of sanitary nuisance
   
49-12   Obnoxious and contaminating odors from businesses
   
49-13   Windblown refuse
   
49-14   Breeding places for mosquitoes
   
49-15   Abatement procedure
   49-16 – 49-19   Reserved
Article III. Lot Clearance
   
49-20   Definition
   
49-21   Duty of property owners not to permit accumulations of garbage and
weeds on land
   
49-22   Resolution prescribing land to be cleared; notice to property owner;
failure to comply with notice
   
49-23   Costs when land is cleared by Town; billing owner; notice to Commission
of failure to pay bill
   
49-24   Costs of clearing by Town to constitute lien on property; enforcement
of lien
   49-25 – 49-39   Reserved
Article IV. Tree and Shrub Removal Affecting Public Property or Utilities
Serving the Public
   
49-40   Definitions
   
49-41   Removal of decayed, diseased, dead or dangerous trees or shrubs or
portions thereof
   
49-42   Recorded statement constitutes a lien
   
49-43   Appeals
   49-44 – 49-49   Reserved
Article V. Mortgaged Real Property
   
49-50   Reserved
   
49-51   Purpose and intent
   
49-52   Definitions
   
49-53   Applicability
   
49-54   Penalties
   
49-55   Registration of real property mortgagees holding mortgages in default
   
49-56   Maintenance requirements
   
49-57   Security requirements
   
49-58   Opposing, obstructing enforcement officer; penalty
   
49-59   Immunity of enforcement officer
   
49-60   Additional authority
Article VI. Attractive Nuisance Condition
   
49-61   Attractive nuisance prohibited
   
49-62   Attractive nuisance condition; violation
   
49-63   Condition may be remedied by town
   49-64–49-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 49-1. STATE SANITARY CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Sanitary Code set forth in Section 381.031, Florida Statutes, is
adopted as the sanitary code of the Town, and its provisions are incorporated
by reference as though fully set forth herein, subject to any more restrictive
provisions of this code of ordinances.
(`75 Code, § 13-1)
§ 49-2. CLEANING AND DEPOSITING FISH ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to clean any fish, shell fish, crustacea
or other marine life or to leave fish, shrimp, oysters or any other debris upon
any public property in the town.
(`75 Code, § 13-2)
§ 49-3. DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATER INTO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM AND STREETS
PROHIBITED; ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any poisonous or
explosive chemical or contaminated industrial process water into the sanitary
or storm sewers at any time. Also, subsurface water generated during
construction, especially during the excavation for swimming pools, must first
be pumped into a settling tank to allow sand and debris to be separated by
gravity before allowing the water to be discharged into the storm sewer system.
Subsequently the sand and debris will be disposed of along with the excavated
material.
   (b)   Water discharged from any air conditioning is considered industrial
process water and is prohibited from being discharged into the sanitary sewer
system or any body of water.
   (c)   The Code Enforcement special magistrate shall have the power to
enforce the provisions of Articles I and II of this chapter.
(`75 Code, § 13-3) (Ord. 73-2, passed 8-14-73; Am. Ord. 79-1, passed 1-23-79;
Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§§ 49-4. – 49-9. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. SANITARY NUISANCES
§ 49-10. DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY NUISANCE. The commission of an  act by any person or the keeping,
maintaining, propagation, existence or permitting of any thing by any person by
which the life or health of any person, or the health or lives of persons, may
be threatened or impaired, or by which or through which, directly or
indirectly, disease may be caused or the environment of any person rendered
unclean or unwholesome by the act of another or others.
(`75 Code, § 13-14)
§ 49-11. POWER OF HEALTH OFFICER TO DETERMINE EXISTENCE OF SANITARY NUISANCE.
   The Town or County Health Officer shall have full power to determine and
ascertain what shall constitute a sanitary nuisance detrimental to the public
health.
(`75 Code, § 13-15)
§ 49-12. OBNOXIOUS AND CONTAMINATING ODORS FROM BUSINESSES.
   (a)   When any business, occupation, or individual is engaged in an activity
that generates smoke, gases, fumes or obnoxious matter, it shall provide for
the effective control, dissipation, and authorized disposal of such an
obnoxious matter or odor.
   (b)   In the event that the requirement of division (a) of this section
cannot be effected, then the activity shall be considered unlawful and
prohibited and continuation of the activity shall constitute a sanitary
nuisance detrimental to the public health.
(`75 Code, § 13-16; Ord. 79-1, passed 1-23-79)
§ 49-13. WINDBLOWN REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a sanitary nuisance for any owner
or tenant of property to store or cause to be stored any rubbish or unused
material which would be blown about during heavy winds.
(`75 Code, § 13-17)
§ 49-14. BREEDING PLACES OF MOSQUITOES.
   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a sanitary nuisance for any person
to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the town any collection of
standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes are likely to breed.
(`75 Code, § 13-18)
§ 49-15. ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Abatement of those nuisances set forth in this subchapter shall be by
procedure similar to that contained in §§
49-22 through
49-24.
§§ 49-16. – 49-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. LOT CLEARANCE
§ 49-20. DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEARED AREA. An area free of trash and all undergrowth of such height and
density as not to be readily flammable. Undergrowth shall not include growing
trees, individually or in open groves, free of parasitical plants and
smothering vines.
(`75 Code, § 12-15)
§ 49-21. DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS NOT TO PERMIT ACCUMULATIONS OF GARBAGE AND
WEEDS ON LAND.
   Any person owning or controlling any lot or acreage within the town is
prohibited from permitting the accumulation of garbage or trash thereon.
Further, any person owning or controlling any lot or acreage on which any
structure is located is prohibited from permitting the growth or accumulation
of weeds, grass or underbrush thereon above the height of one foot, except as
specifically protected by state or federal law.
(`75 Code, § 12-16) (Ord. 87-08, passed 8-25-87)
§ 49-22. RESOLUTION PRESCRIBING LAND TO BE CLEARED; NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER;
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   (a) The Town Commission shall, when necessary for fire protection or public
health, safety and welfare or when upon receipt of a written complaint by any
person concerned, prescribe by resolution the land to be cleared, and adhere to
established procedure to investigate this matter for notice, timely compliance,
and the setting of hearing dates.
   (b)   The Town Manager shall cause notice of the resolution required by
division (a) of this section to be served in conformity with the procedures
provided in Section 162.12, Florida Statutes, on the owner or his agent.
   (c)   Failure to comply with the resolution required by division (a) of this
section within 30 days shall be considered evidence of intention not to comply
with the resolution, and the Town Manager shall proceed to have the lot or area
cleared.
(`75 Code, §§ 12-17 – 12-19)
§ 49-23. COSTS WHEN LAND IS CLEARED BY TOWN; BILLING OWNER; NOTICE TO
COMMISSION OF FAILURE TO PAY BILL.
   When land is cleared by the town a record of the costs of the same shall be
kept by the Town Manager. A bill shall be mailed to the land owner or his agent
to his last address. If the bill is not paid within 30 days from the date the
bill is sent, the Town Clerk shall certify such fact to the Town Commission
together with a copy of the bill and a description of the property.
(`75 Code, § 12-20)
§ 49-24. COSTS OF CLEARING BY TOWN TO CONSTITUTE LIEN ON PROPERTY; ENFORCEMENT
LIEN.
   The cost of clearing land by the town pursuant to this article shall be a
lien upon the land invoiced, and such a lien shall be enforced by the Town
Commission in the manner provided by state law. The Town Clerk shall keep a
record of all liens obtained by the town under the provisions of this article
and shall file a notice of such liens with the Clerk of the Circuit Court. All
such liens shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until redeemed by
the owner.
(`75 Code, § 12-21)
§§ 49-25. – 49-39. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. TREE AND SHRUB REMOVAL AFFECTING PUBLIC PROPERTY OR UTILITIES
SERVING THE PUBLIC
§ 49-40. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any public or private individual, group, company, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, society or any other combination of human beings
whether legal or natural.
   REMOVAL. The actual removal or trimming of a tree or shrub.
   SHRUB. Any wood plant of low height with several stems.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or such individual as the Town Manager may
designate to act in his place for the purpose of enforcing this article and
carrying out its provisions.
   UTILITIES. Gas, sewer, water, cable television, telephone and electric
utilities serving the public, whether within or outside the town.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-19-90)
§ 49-41 REMOVAL OF DECAYED, DISEASED, DEAD OR DANGEROUS TREES OR SHRUBS OR
PORTIONS THEREOF.  
   (a)   No owner, occupant or lessee of private property, or his agent, shall
permit, allow or maintain any dead, diseased, decayed or damaged trees, shrubs
or branches or parts thereof which overhang or interfere with or may, due to
their condition, overhang, interfere with or collapse upon public sidewalks,
public property, public rights-of-way, public or private streets or roadways or
utilities serving the public. Said owners, lessees or occupants of private
property also shall remove or trim trees or shrubs or parts thereof which
obstruct public view of traffic or public safety signs located within public
rights-of-way. It shall be the responsibility of every property owner or
occupant to maintain trees or shrubs on their property in a safe and healthy
manner, properly trimmed and pruned so to avoid hazards to persons on public
property, to public property or to utilities serving the public.
   (b)   The Town Manager may seek entry to private property in order to
inspect trees and shrubs upon said property to determine compliance with this
article. The Town Manager shall first seek the property owner's/lessee's
permission to conduct such an inspection. Should the property owner/lessee
object to the inspection, the Town Manager may seek, from a court of competent
jurisdiction, a warrant to inspect the premises in accordance with this article
and applicable Florida law. Should a condition of extreme danger or imminent
peril to public property, persons on public property or to utilities serving
the public be known to exist or readily apparent, the warrant requirements of
this section may be dispensed with, but only if there is reasonable cause to
believe that the delay involved in compliance with the warrant requirement
would pose an imminent peril or extreme danger to persons on public property,
public property or to utilities serving the public.
   (c)   Upon finding that any tree or shrub or part thereof constitutes a
nuisance, an imminent peril or extreme danger to persons upon public property,
public property or utilities serving the public, the Town Manager may direct
the property owner, lessee or other person to remove, treat or trim the tree or
shrub to such a degree and in such a manner as the Town Manager shall determine
will correct the nuisance, imminent peril or extreme danger. Service of an
order by the Town Manager to accomplish the foregoing may be in the manner
specified in Section 162.12, Florida Statutes. The order shall set forth the
time limit for compliance, which shall depend upon the degree of extreme
danger, imminent peril or nuisance created by the tree or shrub. In cases of
imminent peril or extreme danger to public property, persons on public property
or to utilities serving the public, the Town Manager shall have the authority
to require immediate compliance.
   (d)   If, at the end of the time period set forth in the order, the tree or
shrub has not been removed or trimmed as directed, it may be declared a
nuisance and the Town Manager may have the tree or shrub removed or trimmed as
appropriate to avoid the extreme danger or imminent peril. The costs of his
service, including labor, equipment and materials, may be assessed to the
private property owner. A tree or shrub may be deemed a nuisance if it, or any
part of it:
      (1)   Appears dead, decayed, diseased, insect infested, dangerous or
likely to fall on public property, persons on public property or utilities
serving the public;
      (2)   Is not pruned to a height of 14 feet above the street to
accommodate vehicles such as garbage trucks, buses and street maintenance
trucks;
      (3)   Is not pruned to a height of nine feet above the sidewalk;
      (4)   Obstructs a curb, gutter, street or sidewalk;
      (5)   Interferes with sewers;
      (6)   Is in dangerous proximity to interfere with utilities serving the
public; or
      (7)   Interferes with a planned public improvement.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-19-90)
§ 49-42. RECORDED STATEMENT CONSTITUTES A LIEN.
   Where the amount due the city is not paid by such owner within 30 days after
the cutting, trimming and/or removal of such trees or shrubs performed by or on
behalf of the city under this article, the Town Manager may cause to be
recorded in the public records of the county a sworn statement showing the cost
and expenses incurred for the work done and the date, place and property on
which such work was done. The recording of such sworn statement shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount due in principal for labor,
administrative costs and fees incurred by the town, plus interest and court
costs, if any, for collection, including reasonable attorney fees, until
payment has been made. Such costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner
fixed by law for the foreclosure of mortgages. Lien shall accrue interest at
the rate of 12% per annum. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the
provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have
been complied with and that the work has been done property and satisfactorily,
and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as
provided by law.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-19-90)
§ 49-43. APPEALS.
   Any person adversely affected by a decision in the enforcement or
interpretation of any terms or provisions of this article may appeal such
decision to the Town Commission. Such appeal must be filed within 30 days of
the issuance in writing of such order by the Town Manager. The appeal must
state the order appealed from and the precise basis of the appeal. The appeal
shall be filed with the Town Clerk and no fee shall be charged for said appeal.
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Town Commission on appeal
may seek relief in a court of competent jurisdiction by filing a petition for
writ of certiorari pursuant to the Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure.
(Ord. 90-08, passed 12-19-90)
§§ 49-44. – 49-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. MORTGAGED REAL PROPERTY
§ 49-50. RESERVED.
§ 49-51. PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Town Commission to establish a process
to limit and reduce the amount of deteriorating property located within the
town, which property is subject to a mortgage which is in default. It is the
Town Commission’s further intent to specifically establish a defaulted mortgage
registration program as a mechanism to protect neighborhoods from becoming
blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and security of abandoned
properties subject to a mortgage or properties subject to mortgages which are
in default.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-52. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED REAL PROPERTY. Any real property that is vacant and is under a
current notice of default and/or notice of mortgagee’s sale, pending tax
assessors lien sale and/or properties that have been the subject of a
foreclosure sale where the title was retained by the beneficiary of a mortgage
involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a deed in lieu
of foreclosure or sale.
   DEFAULT. When used in reference to a mortgage in DEFAULT means that the
mortgage holder has decided to file a mortgage foreclosure action on the
defaulted upon mortgage. A mortgage shall not be in DEFAULT until such time as
the mortgagee declares said mortgage to be in default either in writing or by
its actions, or commences foreclosure proceedings in a court of law.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any full time law enforcement officer, building
official, fire inspector or code enforcement officer employed within the town.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the  property
is vacant. Such conditions may include, but not be limited to, overgrown and/or
dead vegetation, electricity, water or other utilities turned off, stagnant
swimming pool, statements by neighbors, passers- by, delivery agents or
government agents, among other evidence that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which a property, placed as security for a
mortgage loan, after a judicial process is to be sold at an auction to satisfy
a debt upon which the borrower has defaulted.
   VACANT. Any building/structure that is not occupied by human beings or
inhabited.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-53. APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall be considered cumulative and not superseding or subject
to any other law or provision for same, but shall rather be an additional
remedy available to the town above and beyond any other state, county and/or
local provisions for same. This article relates to abandoned property and to
property subject to a mortgage which has been determined by the mortgagee to be
in default.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-54. PENALTIES.
   Violations of this article shall be subject to enforcement by the town code
enforcement special magistrate.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 49-55. REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY MORTGAGEES HOLDING MORTGAGES IN DEFAULT.
   (a)   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
town shall perform an inspection of the property that is the security for the
mortgage, upon default by the mortgagor or prior to the issuance of a notice of
default. If the property is found to be vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, it
shall be deemed abandoned and the mortgagee shall, within ten days of the
inspection, register the property with the Town Manager, or the Town Manager’s
designee, on forms provided by the town. Even though the real property may not
be vacant, if the mortgage on the property is in default, not later than ten
days after the date that a default is declared by the mortgagee of the mortgage
on a particular parcel of real property, the mortgagee shall register the
property with the Town Manager, or the Town Manger’s designee, on forms
provided by the town.
   (b)   If the property is occupied but remains in default, it shall be
inspected by the mortgagee or the mortgagee’s designee monthly until the
mortgagor or other party remedies the default.
   (c)   Within ten days of the date that the mortgagee declares its mortgage
on a particular parcel of real property to be in default, the mortgagee shall
register the real property with the town and at the time of registration shall
designate in writing to the town a local (located within Brevard County)
property manager to inspect, maintain and secure the real property subject to
the mortgage in default.
   (d)   Registration. Registration pursuant to this section shall contain the
name of the mortgagee; the direct mailing address of the mortgagee, e-mail
address, and telephone number; the name of the local contact person and the
contact person’s address, e-mail, and telephone number. The local property
manager shall be responsible for the inspection, security and maintenance of
the property. The local contact person named in the registration shall be
located within Brevard County and available in Brevard County Monday through
Friday between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., holidays and lunch hours excepted, to
be contacted by the town. The town is prohibited from charging for any
registration or a modification of registration.
   (e)   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
   (f)   Properties subject to this section shall remain under the annual
registration requirement, inspection, security, and maintenance standards of
this section as long as they remain vacant or subject to having been declared
by a mortgagee to be in default.
   (g)   Any person or other legal entity that has registered a property under
this section must report any change of information contained in the
registration within ten days of the change.
   (h)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to revise from time to time the registration to reflect a change of
circumstances as required by this article is a violation of the Town Code and
may result in a citation by the town’s code compliance division. Pursuant to a
finding and determination by the town’s Code Enforcement special magistrate,
the town may take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 49-56. MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Properties subject to this article shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices, except those required
by federal, state, or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned or
not being properly maintained.
   (b)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar markings
by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches the color
of the exterior structure.
   (c)   Yards shall be landscaped and maintained pursuant to the standards set
forth in this code.
      (1)   LANDSCAPING shall include, but not be limited to, grass, ground
covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or
artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential, commercial or
industrial installation, as applicable. LANDSCAPING shall not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar material.
      (2)   MAINTENANCE shall include, but not be limited to, watering,
irrigation, cutting, and mowing of required landscape and removal of all
trimmings.
   (d)   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so that pool and spa
water remains free and clear of pollutants and debris. Pools and spas shall
comply with the enclosure requirements of this code and the Florida Building
Code, as amended from time to time.
   (e)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
maintain the property is in violation of the town Code and may result in
citation by the town’s code compliance division. Pursuant to a finding and
determination by the town’s Code Enforcement special magistrate, the town may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 49-57. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Properties subject to this article shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (b)   A SECURE MANNER shall include, but not be limited to, the closure and
locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow
a child to access the interior of the property and/or structure. Broken windows
shall be secured by reglazing or boarding of the window.
   (c)   If a mortgage on property is in default and has become vacant or
abandoned property, a local property manager shall be designated to perform,
and the local property manager or motgagee contact person must perform weekly
inspections to verify compliance with the requirements of this section, and any
other applicable laws or town ordinances.
   (d)   At such time that the property becomes abandoned property, it shall be
posted with the name and 24-hour contact phone number of the local property
manager. The posting shall be no less than 18 inches by 24 inches, and shall be
of a font that is legible from a distance of 45 feet. The posting shall contain
the following language:
   THE PROPERTY IS MANAGED BY:__________
   TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS CALL: ____
   (e)   The posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the
street to the front of the property so that it is visible from the street, or
secured to the exterior of the building/structure facing the street to the
front of the property so that it is visible from the street or if no such area
exists, on a stake of sufficient size to support the posting in a location that
is at all time visual from the street to the front of the property but not
readily accessible to vandals. Exterior posting shall be constructed of and
printed with weather-resistant materials.
   (f)   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure the property, and post and maintain the signage noted in
this section, is a violation of this Code and may result in a citation by the
town’s code compliance division. Pursuant to a finding and determination by the
town’s Code Enforcement special magistrate, the town may take the necessary
action to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 49-58. OPPOSING, OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; PENALTY.
   Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists any enforcement officer, or any person
authorized by the Town Manager, in the discharge of duties as provided in this
article, upon conviction may be punished as provided in §
1-99 of the Town Code, or Chapter 162, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-59. IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any enforcement officer, of any person authorized by the Town Manager, shall
be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith
trespass upon real property while in the discharge of duties imposed by this
article.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-60. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   The Town Manager shall have authority to require the mortgagee and/or owner
of record of any property affected by this section, to implement additional
maintenance and/or security measures including, but not limited to, securing
any and all door, window or other openings, employment of on- site security
guard, or other measures as may be reasonably required to prevent a decline of
the property.
(Ord. 2009-01, adopted 2-18-09)
ARTICLE VI. ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE CONDITION
§ 49-61. ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this article, ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE shall be construed to
mean any artificial condition, whether in a building, on the premises of a
building of upon an unoccupied job site, which by its nature, location or
character would tend to attract and substantially endanger the safety of any
minor person. This includes, but is not limited to, unsecured swimming pools,
abandoned wells or shafts; excavations; abandoned refrigerators/freezers with
doors or motor vehicles with unlocked doors; any structurally unsound fences or
structures; lumber, trash/debris, or any other materials which may provide a
hazard; or any condition which is determined to be a life safety violation. A
LIFE SAFETY VIOLATION is a violation of the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) 101, Life Safety Code, as adopted or in effect within the
city pursuant to section 633.025, Florida Statutes.
   (b)   No person shall have, keep, maintain, cause or permit an attractive
nuisance condition on any parcel of land within this town. Having, keeping,
maintaining, causing or permitting an attractive nuisance in violation of this
section is hereby prohibited and declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 2-18-09)
§ 49-62. ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE CONDITION; VIOLATION.
   (a)   Any person responsible for any parcel of land on which an attractive
nuisance condition shall exist shall take all necessary measures to remedy the
attractive nuisance condition within three calendar days after written notice
by the town, or within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice
from the town.
      (1)   If a code enforcement officer finds and determines that a public
nuisance as described in §
49-61 exists and declares same to exist on a particular parcel of land, the
code enforcement officer shall so notify the owner and the occupant of record
of the offending property and any mortgagee that has registered pursuant to §
49.55. The notice shall be given in writing and shall require that the
condition be remedied. The notice shall specify a date for the completion of
the remedying of the attractive nuisance condition. The notice shall be given
by certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested, or as otherwise provided in
section 162.12, Florida Statutes, the notice being addressed to the owner or
owners of the property described and mortgagee of the property, if the
mortgagee has registered with the town. If notice is mailed, notice to a
property owner shall be given as their names and addresses are shown upon the
record of the county property appraiser, and notice given to a mortgagee shall
be addressed to the address as shown by any mortgagee registration filed at
Town Hall. Mailed notice shall be deemed complete and sufficient when so
addressed and deposited in the United States mail with proper postage paid.
      (2)   Simultaneous with mailing the notice, the property shall be posted
with a notice in substantially the following form:
   NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
Name of owner (______)
Address of owner (______)
Name of registered mortgagee, if any (§
49-55) (______)
Address of registered mortgagee (______)
   Our records indicate that you are the owner (s) of the following property in
the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida:
   (describe property)
   An inspection of this property reveals that a public nuisance exists and
constitutes a violation of Section
49-61 of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, in that:
   (describe here the condition which places the property in violation)
   You are hereby notified that unless the condition above-described is
remedied so that it is no longer in violation of the Town Code within (_____)
days from the date of this notice, the Town of Melbourne Beach will proceed to
remedy this condition and the cost of the work, including advertising costs and
other expenses, will be imposed as a lien on the property if not otherwise paid
within thirty (30) days after receipt of billing. Appeal of such billing or
liening of the property may be undertaken pursuant to Section
49-43, Town Code, within not more than twenty-one (21) consecutive days after
the taking of the action complained of. Further information regarding this
notice or any appeal may be obtained by contacting (_____), at Melbourne Beach
Town Hall, 507 Ocean Avenue, Melbourne Beach, FL 32951, telephone number
(_____); e-mail (_____).
   (b)   Within ten days after the mailing or other service of the notice to
the property owner and mortgagee (if the property is registered), and the
posting of the property, the owner or mortgagee of the property may make
written request to the Town Manager for a hearing before the Manager or the
Manager’s designee to show that the condition alleged in the notice does not
exist or that such condition does not constitute a public nuisance.
   (c)   At the hearing, the town and the property owner or mortgagee may
introduce such evidence as is deemed necessary. The Town Manager, or the
Manager’s designee, shall establish rules and regulations for the hearing
procedure. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply; provided, that
fundamental due process is provided. Following a review by the Town Manager,
the owner or mortgagee, as applicable, will have exhausted the owner’s or
mortgagee’s administrative remedies.
   (d)   Should the condition to be abated be deemed an emergency condition
necessitating immediate action to preserve the health, safety or welfare of the
neighborhood in which the parcel of land on which an attractive nuisance
exists, the town may, but shall not be obligated, to abate the nuisance as
provided in this article absent written notice but after it has attempted
reasonable means of notifying the owner, occupant, lessee, registered
mortgagee, or other person in control of the land. As soon as practicable after
abatement, notice shall be sent to the owner, occupant, lessee, registered
mortgagee, or other person in control of the parcel of land on which the
attractive nuisance exists, of the action taken and a lien shall arise as
provided in §
49-63.
(Ord. 2009-02, adopted 2-18-09)
§ 49-63. CONDITION MAY BE REMEDIED BY TOWN.
   (a)   If within 20 days after mailing of the notice, no hearing has been
requested, or if the property owner or mortgagee, as applicable, has been found
in violation at the hearing specified in §
49-62 before the Town Manager or the Manager’s designee, and the condition
described in the notice has not been remedied, the attractive nuisance
condition may be remedied by the town at the expense of the property owner or
mortgagee, as applicable.
   (b)   After causing the attractive nuisance condition to be remedied, the
Town Manager, or the Manager’s designee, shall certify to the Town Clerk the
expense incurred in remedying the condition and shall include a copy of the
notice above-described and a copy of the decision, if any, by the Town Manager,
or the Manager’s designee. If the expense is not paid within 30 days, a special
assessment lien and charge will be made upon the property, which shall be
payable with interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date of such
certification until paid. Such lien may be satisfied at any time by payment
thereof including accrued interest. Such lien shall be recorded in the public
records of the county. Upon payment of a lien, the satisfaction and
cancellation of such lien shall be recorded in the public records of the
county. If the charge and special assessment lien shall not be paid within two
years from the date of recording of the lien, the town may at anytime
thereafter institute foreclosure and other proceedings as provided in section
170.10, Florida Statutes, or Chapter 173, Florida Statutes, to recover the
amount of the charge plus interest, court costs, and attorneys’ and paralegals’
fees.
(Ord. 2009-02, adopted 2-18-09)
§§ 49-64. – 49-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 50: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
50-1   Injurious material on streets and alleys
   
50-2   Trees and shrubs not to be planted on rights-of-way
   
50-3   Sidewalk construction
   50-4 – 50-99   Reserved
§ 50-1. INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway or street or alley,
any glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance
likely to injure any person or animal or cause damage to any vehicle or
property.
   (b)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped upon any street or alley
any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same or
cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle or property from a
street or highway or alley shall remove any glass or other injurious substance
caused by the vehicle or property.
(`75 Code, § 19-2)
§ 50-2. TREES AND SHRUBS NOT TO BE PLANTED ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No trees or shrubs shall be planted on any right-of-way within the town
without the written permission of the Public Works Director. This prohibition
does not apply to grass or similar ground cover which can be cut by a mowing
machine. Any application to plant trees or shrubs on a right-of-way shall be
made in writing to the Public Works Director stating the type and proposed
location of each tree or shrub.
(`75 Code, § 19-3)
§ 50-3 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
     (a)   All sidewalk construction on public rights-of-way must be permitted
by the town, unless otherwise exempted.
      (1)   All new sidewalk construction shall satisfy sub-section (c)(1)
hereof. All construction of replacement sidewalks shall satisfy sub-section (c)
(2) hereof. Except as otherwise specified by this code, sidewalk construction
shall comply with construction standards as promulgated by the Florida
Department of Transportation.
      (2)   Minor repairs to a sidewalk shall be exempt from permitting. A
MINOR REPAIR shall consist of repair to a single slab of sidewalk no larger
than three feet in length. All other repair work shall be classified as
sidewalk replacement.
   (b)   Sidewalk construction permits.
      (1)   New construction of sidewalks approved as a part of site plan
approval by the Town Commission, shall be issued a sidewalk construction permit
by the Town Manager and require no further review.
      (2)   New construction of sidewalks not completed as a part of a site
plan approval by the Town Commission and construction of replacement sidewalks
shall be subject to permitting pursuant to sub-section (c). Permits shall be
considered and issued by the Town Manager.
      (3)   Sidewalk construction permits may be subject to a permit
application and review fee as may be set from time to time by resolution of the
Town Commission.
   (c)   Permits are issued upon satisfaction of the following standards:
      (1)   All new sidewalks, installed on any public right-of-way in the
town, shall be a minimum of four feet wide with the exception of the Ocean
Avenue right-of-way in which case the sidewalk shall be a minimum of six feet
wide;
      (2)   Sidewalk replacement on any public right-of-way shall require
approval. All sidewalk replacement shall meet the standards set forth in sub-
paragraph (c)(1), unless a waiver is granted by the Town Commission. Waivers
shall be granted by the Town Commission when it determines that the waiver
would be in the public interest, would promote the public health, safety,
welfare, economic order, and aesthetics, and that this section creates a
practical difficulty to the general public or the applicant. Economic hardship
and self-created difficulties shall not constitute a practical difficulty; and
      (3)   New sidewalk construction or construction of replacement sidewalks
shall promote the public health, safety, welfare, economic order, and
aesthetics.
   (d)   Appeal of Town Manager's decision.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Town Manager regarding
issuance of a sidewalk construction permit may appeal to the Town Commission
from the final action of the Town Manager within 30 days following the action
of the Town Manager, by filing a written notice of appeal with the Town Clerk
and a copy thereof with the Town Manager. A PERSON AGGRIEVED is an individual
who is affected in a manner differently than the community as a whole, or
greater in degree than the community as a whole, by the decision of the Town
Manager. Immediately upon receiving a notice of appeal, the Town Manager shall
compile all documents and evidence submitted when the Town Manager considered
the application for a sidewalk construction permit. Copies of said documents
and evidence, together with a copy of Town Manager's final decision and the
applicant's application, shall be forwarded to the Town Commission for
consideration as part of the appeal.
      (2)   The appeal shall be de novo in nature, and any individual may
appear, be heard and submit evidence. Notwithstanding the de novo nature of the
appeal, the Town Commission shall carefully review the decision of the Town
Manager. Great weight shall be given to the decision of the Town Manager.
Hearings on appeal before the Town Commission shall be quasi-judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 95-05, passed 2-21-96)
§§ 50-4. – 50-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 51: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
51-1   Definition
   
51-2   Person to reside at site of sale
   
51-3   Responsibilities of person holding sale
   
51-4   Penalty
   51-5 – 51-99   Reserved
§ 51-1. DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES. The casual, non-business related sale of personal property at
the premises of the resident. Personal property offered for sale cannot be
items purchased individually or in bulk from a third party specifically for the
purpose of resale at the garage sale. GARAGE SALE includes the words CARPORT
SALE, YARD SALE and other titles indicating the same activity, but shall not
include sidewalk sales, which are strictly prohibited under the code.
(Ord. 87-16, passed 11-24-87)
§ 51-2. PERSON TO RESIDE AT SITE OF SALE.
   Each person desiring to hold a garage sale must reside at the site of the
sale.
(Ord. 87-16, passed 11-24-87)
§ 51-3. RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSON HOLDING SALE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the person holding a garage sale to ensure
that neither public property nor private property is damaged or destroyed due
to the garage sale. It shall further be the responsibility of such person to
ensure that those persons attending the garage sale do not trespass upon the
property or encroach upon the privacy of other residents.
(Ord. 87-16, passed 11-24-87)
§ 51-4. PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
by the Police Department may be immediately ordered to cease and desist the act
or acts constituting said violation; and further said person may be punished by
a fine not to exceed $500 or incarceration not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. 87-16, passed 11-24-87)
§§ 51-5. – 51-99.
CHAPTER 52: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
52-1   Definitions
   
52-2   Permit required
   
52-3   Permit application
   
52-4   Denial of permit
   
52-5   Liability insurance
   
52-6   Permit conditions
   
52-7   Revocation of permit
   52-8 – 52-99   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Town Parks Board, see §§
11-90 –
11-94
§ 52-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK PARTY. A gathering comprised substantially of neighbors in a
residential area which requires the closing of a local street for the purpose
of having a party or other social, recreational or any other type of
assemblage.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any meeting, activity, parade, gathering or group of persons,
animals or vehicles, or a combination thereof having a common purpose, design
or goal, upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, beach or other public
place or building which substantially inhibits the usual flow of pedestrian or
vehicular travel or which occupies any public area or building which results in
preemptive use by general public or which deviates from the established use.
SPECIAL EVENT shall not be construed to include a block party.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-2. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any special
event unless a special event permit shall have been obtained from the Town
Manager.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-3. PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (a)    A person seeking the issuance of a Special Event Permit shall file an
application with the Town Manager on forms provided by the town. An application
for a special event permit shall be filed with the Town Manager or his
authorized designee not less than 15 days or more than 90 days before the date
on which it is proposed to conduct the special event. An application for a
special event permit shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name, date of birth, address and telephone number of the person
seeking to conduct such special event;
      (2)   The purpose of the special event;
      (3)   If the special event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of
or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of
such organization;
      (4)   The ultimate use of net proceeds from the special event;
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
responsible for conducting the special event;
      (6)   The dates when the special event is to be conducted, and the hours
of such event and location;
      (7)   The estimated number of participants or those otherwise attending,
and the estimated number of vehicles participating or parking near the event.
If the event is a parade, the estimated number of units in each category, such
as band, marching units, floats, cars and the like;
      (8)   The number, type, and location and provisions for toilet facilities
during the event;
      (9)   A statement describing what portion of any street will be occupied
by the event;
      (10)   Whether any music will be provided, the hours of duration and
location of such bands or loudspeakers, along with the numbers and types of
such amplifiers or other such devices;
      (11)   Location of assembly and disband areas for event and proposed time
of assembly and disband;
      (12)   Provisions for cleanup after conclusion of the special event;
      (13)   Provisions, if any, for security, traffic control and crowd
control;
      (14)   Intent to have food and drinks and whether or not such food or
drinks will be sold or otherwise dispersed; who will be supplying such food or
drinks and who will receive the funds obtained from the sale of such food and
drinks;
      (15)   What provisions have been made for any needed electric power; and
      (16)   Whether admission fees will be charged or prizes given and the
dollar amounts involved.
   (b)    Prior to approval or denial, the Town Manager shall submit the
application to the Town Parks Board for its recommendations.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-4. DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Within five business days from receipt of the Parks Board's recommendations,
the Town Manager shall send the applicant written notice of approval or denial
by regular U.S. mail of the action he has taken on the application and the
specific reasons thereof. The permit for the special event shall be granted
unless one or more of the following conditions is found to exist:
      (1)   The application is incomplete in a material respect;
      (2)   The application has been fraudulently completed;
      (3)   A prior permit has already been issued for the same area requested
within the same calendar month;
      (4)   The application is not for a public area;
      (5)   An adjacent public area has already been scheduled for use at the
same time and simultaneous uses cannot be accommodated;
      (6)   The estimate of the anticipated attendance is in excess of the
maximum designated as allowable for the area; or
      (7)   The Chief of Police has factual knowledge that the applicant or
sponsoring group specifically intends to cause or create a public disturbance
in connection with the special event.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-5. LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (a)   An applicant shall provide a policy of liability insurance where the
special event involves more than 50 persons or vehicles, naming the town as an
insured in an amount to be determined by the Town Manager and in the case of
parades, shall cover the assembly area in addition to the parade route. If
vehicles are to be used in the parade, proof of vehicle liability insurance
must be provided by the owners of such vehicles.
   (b)    The applicant shall be required to hold the town and its of
officials, employees and agents harmless from any damages to property or
injuries (including death) to any person that may occur arising directly or
indirectly from the activity for which the permit is being issued.
      (1)   The following coverage shall be in effect: Public Liability,
$300,000 per person and $1,000,000 per accident; Property Damage, $200,000 per
any one claim. If motor vehicles are to be used coverage in the foregoing
limits shall be included. The foregoing coverage shall not exclude and shall
specifically include coverage for violation of any civil rights actions brought
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 1983. The insurance carrier with whom the
insurance is placed shall be reasonably acceptable to the Town, licensed by the
State of Florida to carry on insurance activities as set forth in this chapter,
and rated as “A+” or better by Best's Rating Guide. The town shall be named as
loss payee in any policy set forth in this division. The policy shall include a
noncancellation clause, unless at least 30 days notice is first extended to the
town and in the event of cancellation.
      (2)   A Certificate of Insurance shall be filed and maintained with the
town by the insurance carrier showing such insurance to be in force at all
times. Said certificate shall be presented to the town before the actual permit
is issued.
   (c)   The Town Commission may waive, in part or in whole, the requirements
of insurance; provided, that other acceptable and adequate forms of
indemnification or insurance are provided.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-6. PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The Chief of Police may stop a special event where a breach of the
peace is occurring or an activity in the nature of a riot has occurred.
      (2)   The public area is to be left clean and undamaged following any
special event.
      (3)   The Town Manager shall have authority to restrict, limit or
prohibit the use or construction of platforms, chairs, or other equipment, if
he finds that their use would result in damage to town property or constitute a
hazard to safety or would block or infringe upon some other lawful use of the
public property.
      (4)   The grant of the permit shall not entitle the applicant to violate
any other general park rules or regulations, or regulations applicable to the
use of public property adopted by ordinance.
      (5)   A deposit and/or fee may be required where request is made to use
town services or equipment.
      (6)   The conduct of the event will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
      (7)   The conduct of the event will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
town.
      (8)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the event will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas.
      (9)   The conduct of the event is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
      (10)   An applicant shall have first furnished copies of his alcohol
license should alcoholic beverages be served, and a Health Department license
should food and beverages be sold.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§ 52-7. REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager shall have the authority to revoke a special event permit
issued pursuant to this chapter upon violation of the standards for issuance
prescribed in this chapter. During the event, the Police Department shall have
the authority to order a termination of the event should the continuance of
such event contribute to public disorder or endanger life or property, or find
that the application was fraudulent in any manner.
(Ord. 87-18, passed 12-8-87)
§§ 52-8. – 52-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 53: POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PARKS
Section
   
53-1   Definitions
   
53-2   Consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited on dune crossovers;
consumption in parks; permit required
   
53-3   Permit application for alcoholic beverage use in a town park
   
53-4   Permit for alcoholic beverages in a park; standards for and conditions
of issuance
   
53-5   Enforcement
   
53-6   Permit for possession, consumption, or sale of alcoholic beverages in a
park; appeal rights and revocation
   
53-7   Permits to be displayed; no interferences with permitted activities
   53-8 – 53-99   Reserved
§ 53-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. The term defined as set forth in Section 561.01,
Florida Statutes.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center, golf course, civic
building, boardwalk or pier and any other area in the Town, owned or used by
the Town, and devoted to active or passive recreation, excluding the Atlantic
Ocean beaches.
   RENDITION. The date on which a decision is reduced to a writing addressed to
a permit applicant.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§ 53-2. CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED ON DUNE CROSSOVERS;
CONSUMPTION IN PARKS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Alcoholic beverage permit. No person shall consume, possess, or sell
alcoholic beverages in any Town park without first obtaining an alcoholic
beverages permit pursuant to the provisions of §§
53-3 through
53-5 of this code.
   (b)   Dune crossovers. No person shall consume alcoholic beverages, or
possess an open alcoholic beverage container, on any beach sand dune walkway or
crossover open to the general public. No person shall consume alcoholic
beverages, or possess an open alcoholic beverage container, on any public
property landward of and within 20 feet of said sand dune walkway or crossover.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 99-06, passed 11-17-99)
§ 53-3. PERMIT APPLICATION FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE USE IN A TOWN PARK.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit for consumption, possession or sale of
alcoholic beverages in a Town park shall file an application with the Town
Manager, or said Manager's designee, on forms provided by the Town, not less
than 24 hours nor more than 90 days before the date on which the applicant
proposes to consume, possess, or sell alcohol in a park. An application for
alcoholic beverages possession, consumption or sale, permit shall include the
following information:
      (a)   The name, date of birth, address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
      (b)   The dates and the hours during which alcoholic beverages will be
sold, possessed, or consumed, if applicable;
      (c)   The estimated number of participants or those otherwise attending,
and the estimated number of vehicles participating;
      (d)   A statement describing what park or portion thereof, will be used;
      (e)   Provisions, if any, for security, traffic control and crowd
control;
      (f)   Intent to have food, alcoholic beverages, and non-alcoholic drinks
and whether or not such food or drinks will be sold or otherwise dispersed; who
will be supplying such food or drinks and who will receive the funds obtained
from the sale of such food and drinks;
      (g)   Whether admission fees will be charged or prizes given and the
dollar amounts involved;
      (h)   Any other information which the Town Manager, or said Manager's
designee, shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether
a permit should be issued hereunder.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§ 53-4. PERMIT FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN A PARK; STANDARDS FOR AND CONDITIONS
OF ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Alcoholic beverage permit. Permits for the sale, consumption, or
possession of alcohol in a park shall be issued without charge pursuant to the
following standards:
      (1)   The permittee must designate a responsible individual;
      (2)   A cash deposit not to exceed $200 must be posted with the Town
Manager, or said Manager's designee. The Town Manager, or said Manager's
designee shall determine the amount of the bond required. Funds will be
returned when the park is cleaned of all trash and garbage;
      (3)   The permittee must demonstrate that adequate provisions have been
made to ensure compliance with all applicable statutes and ordinances regarding
the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages, and that the
activity will not unduly interfere with the enjoyment of the park facilities by
other citizens;
      (4)   An applicant shall have first furnished copies of his alcohol
license should alcoholic beverages be sold, and a health department license
should food and beverages be sold; and
      (5)   Said permit may be granted for no more than a 24 hour period once
every five consecutive days.
   (b)   The following provisions are general conditions for all alcoholic
beverage permits issued pursuant to this chapter:
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his designee may stop the sale, possession,
or consumption in a Town park of alcoholic beverages where a breach of peace is
occurring or an activity in the nature of a riot has occurred;
      (2)   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and
all applicable ordinances and resolutions as fully as though the same were
inserted in the permits; and
      (3)   Liability of permittee. The person(s) to whom a permit is issued
shall be liable for any loss, damage or injury to property or person (including
death), by reason of the negligence of the person(s) to whom such permit shall
have been issued.
   (c)   Denial of permit. A permit for sale, consumption, or possession of
alcoholic beverages in a Town park application may be denied for any one or
more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete in a material respect;
      (2)   The application has been fraudulently completed;
      (3)   A prior permit has already been issued for the same area requested
within the same time period, or a portion thereof;
      (4)   The application is not for a public area;
      (5)   An adjacent public area has already been scheduled for use at the
same time. Upon a showing that simultaneous uses can be accommodated, the Town
Manager or his designee may waive this requirement.
      (6)   The Chief of Police has factual knowledge that the applicant or
sponsoring group specifically intends to cause or create a public disturbance.
The foregoing list of reasons for permit denial shall not be construed to be an
exclusive list of reasons for denial.
   (d)   Revocation. The Town Manager, or said Manager's designee, shall have
the authority to revoke an alcoholic beverage permit issued pursuant to this
chapter upon a finding of violation of any rule, resolution, or ordinance, or
upon good cause shown. During the use of a park, the Town Police Department
shall have the authority to order a termination of the event should the
continuance of such event contribute to public disorder or endanger life or
property, or find that the application was fraudulent in any manner.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§ 53-5. ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Officials. The Town Manager, or said Manager's designee, shall, in
connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (b)   Ejectment. The Town Manager, or said Manager's designee, shall have
the authority to eject from any Town park any person acting in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§ 53-6. PERMIT FOR POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN A
PARK; APPEAL RIGHTS AND REVOCATION.
   The Town Manager, or said Manager's designee, shall appraise an applicant in
writing of the decision to grant the permit, grant the permit with conditions,
or deny the permit, stating generally the reasons for granting the permit with
conditions, or denying the permit. Any decision to suspend or revoke an
alcoholic beverages permit, to withhold a bond (in whole or in part), or to
eject any person from a Town park for violations of this chapter, the permit
applicant or any aggrieved person directly affected by the decision to grant a
permit, deny a permit, or grant said permit with conditions, to suspend or
revoke an alcoholic beverages permit, to withhold a bond (in whole or in part)
or to eject any person from a Town park for violation of this chapter, shall,
prior to seeking judicial relief, appeal said decision to the Town Commission.
Said decision shall be appealed in writing within ten days after rendition of
said decision of the Town Manager, or the Manager's designee, or other
appropriate Town official. The appeal shall be commenced by filing with the
Town Clerk, a notice of appeal stating the decision appealed from, the basis or
authority for the appeal, and the reasons why the appeal should be granted. The
Town Commission shall hold a de novo hearing and consider the appeal pursuant
to the standards set forth in §
53-4 and sustain or overrule the decision. The decision of the Town Commission
shall be final.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§ 53-7. PERMITS TO BE DISPLAYED; NO INTERFERENCES WITH PERMITTED ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall fail to produce and exhibit a permit to consume, sell or
possess alcoholic beverages in a Town park, that said person claims to have,
upon request of any Town official who shall desire to inspect the same for the
purpose of enforcing compliance with any ordinance, resolution, or rule.
(Ord. 92-06, passed 11-18-92)
§§ 53-8. – 53-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 60: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, GENERALLY
Section
   
60-1   Definitions
   
60-2   Hours of sale; closing times
   
60-2.1   Restriction on consumption; possession of open containers
   
60-3   Adoption of state law by reference
   
60-4   Penalty
   60-5 – 60-99   Reserved
§ 60-1. DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage which contains more than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The percentage of alcohol by volume shall be determined by measuring
the volume of the standard ethyl alcohol in the beverage and comparing it with
the volume of the remainder as though said remainder ingredients were distilled
water. Proof that a beverage in question was contained in an open bottle or
can, labeled as beer, ale, malt liquor, malt beverage, wine, liquor or other
similar names and which bears the manufacturer's insignia, name or trademark
shall be prima facie evidence that such beverage is an ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
§ 60-2. HOURS OF SALE; CLOSING TIMES.
   (a)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, consumed, served, or permitted to
be served or consumed within any place licensed by the Florida division of
alcoholic beverages to serve, sell, or permit for service or consumption
alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday
through Saturday.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold, consumed, served, or permitted to
be served or consumed within any place licensed by the Florida division of
alcoholic beverages to serve, sell, or permit for service or consumption
alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sundays,
Christmas Day and New Year's Day of each year; provided, however, that
restaurants so properly licensed to sell alcoholic beverages and serving full
lunches or brunches on Sundays, Christmas Day, and on New Year's Day of each
year may sell and serve on their premises at tableside alcoholic beverages to
be consumed along with the service of food from 11:00 a.m. on the days so
mentioned above.
   (c)   Hours of sale, service and on-premises consumption may be temporarily
extended or reduced for special occasions or special events within all areas or
specially defined areas of the town by resolution of the Town Commission. The
regulations restricting the hours during which alcoholic beverages may be sold,
consumed, served, or permitted to be served or consumed within any place
licensed by the Florida division of alcoholic beverages may be further
restricted from those set forth in sub-sections (a) and (b) above by a
condition attached to any special exception or zoning permit permitting an
establishment to sell, serve, or permit on premises consumption of alcoholic
beverage.
   (d)   Sale of alcoholic beverages for off-premises consumption will be
permitted in any place having a license issued by the state of Florida for sale
of those beverages between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m.
(`75 Code, § 3-3)
   (e)   The closing time of establishments selling alcoholic beverages for
consumption on premises shall not be later than 15 minutes after the times
prescribed by divisions (a) through (d) of this section. All persons shall
vacate the premises, with the exception of the owners or employees of the
establishment, until the next lawful opening time.
(`75 Code, § 3-4) (Ord. adopted 12-10-68; Am. Ord. 79-3, adopted 8-28-79; Am.
Ord. 84-5, adopted 6-26-84; Am. Ord. 85-9, adopted 1-14-86; Am. Ord. 2011-04,
adopted 9-21-11)
§ 60-2.1 RESTRICTION ON CONSUMPTION; POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (a)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume, or
possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage on the premises outside of
any building, including but not limited to parking areas, which premises
contains an establishment that is located within the 6-B, 7-C, or 8-B zoning
districts of the town, but not including any building customarily used for:
governmental purposes with a special permit allowing consumption or possession
of an open container of an alcoholic beverage, as a house of worship,
residential purposes such as a multi-family residence, single-family residence,
duplex, or which premises is used as a bed and breakfast inn, motel, or hotel.
As used in this subsection, the term “building” includes: (i) the interior of
any structure certified by the Town's building official for occupancy; and (ii)
in any place licensed by the Florida division of alcoholic beverages for
consumption of alcohol during the hours that alcohol may be lawfully served as
provided in section
60-2, seating areas located outside of the structure where alcohol is regularly
served by the alcoholic beverage licensee and consumed.
   (b)   Signage required. Any establishment engaged in the sale of alcoholic
beverages shall, at all times when such establishment is open to the public, or
is selling alcoholic beverages, have a sign located where it can be readily
seen and read by all customers of the establishment which is at least six by
eight and one-half inches (6×8-1/2) in size and with a minimum seven-sixteenth
inch (7/16) high lettering containing the following information:
“IT IS UNLAWFUL TO CONSUME OR POSSESS OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
OUTSIDE OF AND ON THIS OR ANYADJACENT BUSINESS PROPERTY.”
MELBOURNE BEACH TOWN CODE SEC. 60-2.1.”
(Ord. 2011-04, adopted 9-21-11)
§ 60-3. ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The State Alcoholic Beverage Law, Chapters 561 through 569, Florida
Statutes, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated and made a part of
this chapter as though fully set forth at length herein.
§ 60-4. PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or incarceration not to exceed 60 days,
or both.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 10-13-87)
§§ 60-5. – 60-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 61: NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
61-1   Definitions
   
61-2   Commercial establishments where alcoholic beverages are distributed
   
61-3   Exposure of sexual organs
   
61-4   Hours of operation
   61-5 – 61-14   Reserved
Article II. Annual Regulatory Permit
   
61-15   Permit required
   
61-16   Application; content
   
61-17   Permits issued in addition to other permits or licenses
   
61-18   Application fee
   
61-19   All requirements must be met
   
61-20   Updating information in permit
   
61-21   Fingerprints
   
61-22   Report of findings; vote
   
61-23   Criteria for investigation
   
61-24   Public hearing
   
61-25   Issuance of permit; renewal; fee for renewal
   
61-26   Revocation of permit
   
61-27   Public hearing concerning revocation of permit
   
61-28   Notice requirements
   61-29 – 61-34   Reserved
Article III. Commercial Contact
   
61-35   Unlawful to perform commercial contact except in certain establishments
   
61-36   Requirements
   
61-37   Exemptions
   
61-38   Permit does not allow acts otherwise unlawful
   61-39 – 61-44   Reserved
Article IV. Obscene Materials
   
61-45   Legislative intent
   
61-46   Rules of construction
   61-47 – 61-54    Reserved
Article V. Location Requirements
   
61-55   Prohibited locations
   
61-56   Waiver
   61-57 – 61-99    Reserved
   
Appendix A:    Application for identification card
   
Appendix B:    Annual Regulation Permit
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 61-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A place where books, magazines, records, photographs,
videotapes or moving pictures are sold or offered for sale or rental to adults,
which merchandise has as its dominant or primary theme matters depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities.
   ADULT DANCING FACILITY. Any commercial establishment which permits, suffers,
allows or employs any person on the premises of such establishment to:
      (1)   Expose to the public view his or her genitals, pubic hair, vulva,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage, or to employ any device or covering
which is intended to give the appearance of or stimulate such anatomical areas;
      (2)   Expose to the public view that area of the human female breast at
or below the areola thereof or to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance or simulate such areas, if the person is a
female; or
      (3)   Perform a straddle dance.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any adult bookstore, adult dancing facility,
adult motion picture booth or adult motion picture theater or commercial
physical contact establishment as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE BOOTH. An area within an adult motion picture theater
designed for or used for the viewing by one or two persons of motion pictures
which have as their dominant theme matters depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A place where motion pictures are shown or a
section, department or part of any business set aside for the showing of motion
pictures, which has as its principal purpose the offering for viewing to adults
of motion pictures which have as their dominant or primary theme matters
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. See Chapter 60.
   AREOLA. The circular, colored area which surrounds the nipple of a human
breast.
   BODY TISSUES. Chest, back, waist, hips, buttocks, pubic area, sexual organs,
groin, stomach or thighs.
   COMMERCIAL CONTACT. The manipulation,  washing or touching for compensation
of a person's unclothed body tissues directly by another person or indirectly
by such other person using any instrument, thing, substance or device.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment which operates for pecuniary
gain. A COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT licensed by the state to dispense alcoholic
beverages on the premises shall be rebuttably presumed to be a commercial
establishment. Any establishment which has received an occupational license to
operate commercially is presumed to be a COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.
   COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL CONTACT ESTABLISHMENT. A place where commercial contact
is offered or actually takes place, or a part of any business set aside as a
place for commercial contact to take place.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town of Melbourne Beach Police Department.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic
abuse, when it:
      (1)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful, or morbid interest
of juveniles;
      (2)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for juveniles;
and
      (3)   Is without serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific
value for juveniles.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any person, partnership or corporation who is a permittee
or is an applicant for a permit, or who is an employee of a permittee or an
applicant for a permit, or who is an independent contractor who works in the
applicant's facility or who is a partner in a partnership which is a permittee
or an applicant for a license, or which is an officer or director of a
corporation which is a permittee or an applicant for a permit.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, reason to know or belief or ground
for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both the character
and content of any material described herein which is reasonably susceptible to
examination by the defendant; and the age of the juvenile; provided, however,
that an honest mistake shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if
the defendant made a reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of
such a juvenile. KNOWINGLY also shall mean having knowledge of the character
and content of the publication or failure on notice to exercise reasonable
inspection which would disclose the content and character of same.
   NUDITY or NUDE or PARTIALLY DENUDED FIGURES shall mean less than completely
and opaquely covered:
      (l)   Human genitals;
      (2)   Pubic region;
      (3)   Buttocks;
      (4)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (5)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   PATRON. Any person who is physically present on the premises of a commercial
establishment or adult entertainment facility and who is not an owner,
employee, agent or subcontractor of the establishment or facility or an
entertainer or performer at the establishment or facility.
   PERMIT. A regulatory permit issued by the Town Commission for the operation
of an adult entertainment facility.
   PREMISES. A building that is under one roof or has common entrances and the
area immediately surrounding the building.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area which is open to the general public.
   ROOM. Any area separated from the remainder of the premises by a permanent
partition, which does not allow viewing of any activity taking place in the
interior of such an area from the outside of such an area.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or a bizarre costume or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. The act of masturbation,  homosexuality, sexual intercourse
or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, or, if such person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SEXUAL ORGANS. The genitals, pubic hair, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus
or anal cleft or cleavage of any person and the area of the breast of any
female person at or below the circular colored area which surrounds the nipple
thereof (otherwise known as the areola).
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT. Any felony or soliciting for prostitution,
pandering, prostitution, keeping a house of ill fame, lewd or lascivious
behavior, or sale or possession of a controlled substance or narcotic.
   TOUCHING. Any form of intentional, interpersonal, physical, bodily contact,
whether or not exposed or unclothed parts of the body are involved.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-2. COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS WHERE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE DISTRIBUTED.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning or operating
a commercial establishment located within the town, at which alcoholic
beverages are possessed, consumed, purchased, sold, dispensed, given away or
otherwise distributed to:
      (1)   Suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment to expose to the public view that area of the human
breast at or below the areola thereof;
      (2)   Suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate such portions of the human female breast as
described in division (a)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to expose to the public view his or her genitals,
pubic hair, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage; or
      (4)   Suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic hair, pubic area, vulva,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful, while on the premises of a commercial
establishment at which alcoholic beverages are possessed, consumed, purchased,
sold, dispensed, given away or otherwise distributed on the premises, for any
owner, employee, agent or subcontractor of the establishment or for any
entertainer or performer at the establishment to:
      (1)   Touch the clothed or unclothed breast of any female person;
      (2)   Touch the clothed or unclothed body of any person in the region of
his or her genitals, pubic hair, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal
cleft or cleavage;
      (3)   Suffer or permit himself or herself to be touched by any person in
any of the clothed or unclothed areas of the body described in division (b)(2)
of this section, or on the breast, if the owner, employee, agent,
subcontractor, entertainer, or performer so touched is a female; or
      (4)   Participate in a straddle dance.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume, purchase,
sell, dispense, give away or otherwise distribute alcoholic beverages on the
premises of any commercial establishment where such a person knows or has
reason to believe that:
      (1)   Any person is engaging in the actual or simulated display of his or
her genitals, pubic hair, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or
cleavage;
      (2)   Any female is engaging in the actual or simulated display of the
area of the human breast at or below the areola;
      (3)   Any person participating in a straddle dance; or
      (4)   Within the past two hours, prior to said possession, consumption,
purchase, sale, dispensation, giving away or other distribution of alcoholic
beverages, any female has engaged in or simulated display of the area of the
human breast at or below the areola, or any person has engaged in the actual or
simulated display of his or her genitals, pubic hair, pubic area, vulva,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage, or any person has participated in a
straddle dance.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the town at which alcoholic beverages
are possessed, consumed, purchased, sold, dispensed, given away or otherwise
distributed, to expose to public view that area of the human female breast at
or below the areola thereof, or to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate such areas of the female breast
as described herein.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the town at which alcoholic beverages
are possessed, consumed, purchased, sold, dispensed, given away or otherwise
distributed, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic hair, pubic
area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage, or to employ any device
or covering which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate the
genitals, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful, while on the premises of a commercial
establishment at which alcoholic beverages are possessed, consumed, purchased,
sold, dispensed, given away, or otherwise distributed on the premises for any
patron of the establishment to:
      (1)   Touch the clothed or unclothed breast of any female owner,
employee, agent, or subcontractor of the establishment or of any female
entertainer or performer at the establishment;
      (2)   Touch the clothed or unclothed body of any owner, employee, agent,
subcontractor, entertainer, or performer in the region of his or her genitals,
pubic hair, pubic area, vulva, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage;
      (3)   Suffer or permit himself or herself to be touched by any owner,
employee, agent or subcontractor of the establishment or by any entertainer or
performer at the establishment on any of the clothed or unclothed areas of the
body described in division (f)(2) above, or on the breast, if the patron is a
female; or
      (4)   Participate in a straddle dance.
   (g)   If the owner, operator, lessor, licensee, lessee, manager, employee or
any other person participating in the operation of a commercial establishment
located within the town at which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for
consumption on the premises, shall be convicted of any of the offenses
designated in this section, the Town Commission may revoke the occupational
license for the establishment after giving a reasonable notice thereof to the
holder of the license and affording the holder an opportunity to be heard as to
why the revocation should not be issued.
   (h)   Any person who enters a commercial establishment which displays on the
premises, by sign or otherwise, an advertisement that reasonably indicates that
nude or semi-nude activities takes place at the establishment is presumed to be
aware that such activity is taking place in the establishment.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-3. EXPOSURE OF SEXUAL ORGANS.
   Any conduct prohibited under Section 800.03, Florida Statutes, or any other
statute regulating lewdness or indecent exposure is hereby also prohibited
under this chapter.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-4. HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The sale, rental, presentation, display, perusal or viewing of obscene
material by a store or business or the presentation of live shows or
performances which show or depict nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic
abuse, shall be restricted to the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§§ 61-5. – 61-14. RESERVED
ARTICLE II. ANNUAL REGULATORY PERMIT
§ 61-15. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An annual regulatory permit shall be required for each commercial physical
contact establishment, adult bookstore, adult dancing facility and adult motion
picture theater.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
Cross-reference:
   For copy of annual regulatory permit, see Appendix B.
§ 61-16. APPLICATION; CONTENT.
   (a)    No permit for a facility shall be issued until an application is made
to the Police Department and the investigation and report required under §
61-22(b) have been completed.
   (b)    Each application must be sworn to and state the name, address and
date of birth of the applicant, or, if a partnership, the names, addresses, and
dates of birth of the persons who constitute such a partnership, or, if a
corporation, the names, addresses and dates of birth of its directors and
officers.
   (c)   Each application must also include the names, addresses and dates of
birth of all present employees of the facility and all independent contractors
performing services with the facility, a statement as to whether any interested
party of the applicant has been convicted within five years of the date of
application of any specified criminal act and if so, the name of such an
interested party, the date and place of conviction, and the nature of the crime
for which the interested party was convicted.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-17. PERMITS ISSUED IN ADDITION TO OTHER PERMITS OR LICENSES.
   Permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be in addition to and not in
lieu of any occupational licenses or other permits or licenses required under
this code or any code of the town.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-18. APPLICATION FEE.
   Each application must be accompanied by a fee of $250 to cover the cost of
investigation and administration.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-19. ALL REQUIREMENTS MUST BE MET.
   No application shall be processed by the Police Department unless such
application complies with all the requirements stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-20. UPDATING INFORMATION IN PERMIT.
   Applicants for a regulatory permit and any person, partnership, corporation
or other entity which has been issued a permit under this chapter are under a
continuing duty to update the information contained in an application submitted
for a permit and shall, within 30 days of any change in such information,
notify the Chief of Police in writing of such changes.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-21. FINGERPRINTS
     (a)   No application for a regulatory permit under this chapter shall be
complete until all interested parties of the applicant have submitted their
fingerprints to the Police Department.
   (b)   A permittee shall not be deemed to have complied with the provisions
of §
61-20 until and unless the fingerprints of any new interested parties of the
permittee have been submitted to the Police Department.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, fingerprints submitted to the Police
Department must be in a form approved by the Department. Fingerprints made
outside the presence of a fingerprint technician employed by the Department
shall not be acceptable.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-22. REPORT OF FINDINGS; VOTE.
   (a)   Upon the filing of any complete application with the Police
Department, the Department shall furnish the Town Commission with a copy
thereof immediately. The Police Chief shall promptly conduct an investigation
to determine whether the applicant has complied with §§ 61-15 through 61-28 and
all other requirements of this code of ordinances and of the Florida Statutes,
and to determine the suitable character and qualification of the applicant for
any interested party, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §
61-23, to operate a facility. He shall report his findings in writing, which
report shall be filed with the Town Clerk prior to the regular Town Commission
meeting at which such an application is to be acted upon.
   (b)    The Town Commission, by an affirmative vote of at least three members
of the Commission, shall have the authority to grant or renew a permit as
requested, table a permit or renewal request pending further investigation, or
deny a permit or renewal request in the exercise of its sound discretion after
consideration of the criteria prescribed in §
61-23 in determining whether issuance or renewal would be detrimental to the
public health, safety, morals, or welfare. If the Town Commission so determines
that issuance or renewal of the permit would be detrimental to the public
health, safety, morals, or welfare, it shall deny the permit request. If the
Town Commission determines that the issuance or a renewal of a permit would not
be detrimental to the public health, safety, morals, or welfare, it shall issue
the requested permit or renewal.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-23. CRITERIA FOR INVESTIGATION.
   The following criteria shall be considered by the Police Chief in conducting
any investigation or making any report under §
61-22(a), and by the Town Commission when issuing or denying any application
for a permit or for renewal of a permit under §
61-22(b):
      (1)    Whether any interested party of the applicant has been convicted
of a specified criminal act, the number of such convictions and how recently
they occurred. The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt on
a plea of guilty or no lo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond upon a charge
of a specified criminal act;
      (2)    Whether the applicant or any interested party was the permittee or
an interested party of the permittee of a facility at the time such facility's
permit was revoked under the provisions hereof;
      (3)    Any other factors which, in the exercise of their sound
discretion, they determine to have an effect upon the public health, safety,
morals or welfare; and
      (4)    If any of the factors in divisions (1), (2), or (3) of this
section are found to exist, they shall consider whether such factors are
related to the use or operation by the applicant or any interested party
thereof of the facility for which the permit application is made or the use or
operation by the applicant or any interested party thereof of any other
facility and whether such factors evidence a flagrant disregard for the health,
safety, morals, or welfare of such facility's patrons or employees, or of
persons residing or doing business nearby.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-24. HEARING.
   Upon the filing of an application, the Town Clerk shall fix a time and place
for a public hearing thereon. Such a hearing shall be held after notice thereof
has been given by mail to the applicant for a permit, at the address shown on
the application. Any such hearing may be continued from time to time without
further notice.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-25. ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; RENEWAL; FEE FOR RENEWAL.
   If the Town Commission determines that the applicant is eligible to be
issued a permit as provided in § 111.22(b), a regulatory permit shall be issued
to be effective for one year from the date of issuance. A permit shall be
renewed upon the approval of the Town Commission in accordance with §§
61-15 through
61-28, after an application for renewal has been duly submitted together with a
renewal application fee of $100.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-26. REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Commission, by majority vote of those present, after a hearing as
hereinafter provided, is hereby authorized to revoke any permit issued under
the provisions of §§
61-15 through
61-28 of any permittee under any one or more of the following circumstances, if
the Town Commission makes an affirmative finding that the continued operation
of the permitted premises would be detrimental to the public health, morals,
safety, or welfare:
      (1)   Permittee is convicted of a specified criminal act.
      (2)   If the permittee is a partnership, if any partner thereof is
convicted of a specified criminal act.
      (3)   If the permittee is a corporation, any officer or director is
convicted of a specified criminal act.
      (4)   A nuisance as defined in Section 823.05, Florida Statutes, is
maintained on the permitted premises.
      (5)   Permittee or any employee of permittee engages in or permits on the
permitted premises disorderly or indecent conduct as defined by the Florida
Statutes.
      (6)   Permittee fails to comply with the fire prevention ordinances of
the Town after reasonable notice shall have been given to the permittee to
eliminate or correct any condition in violation of such ordinances on the
permitted premises.
      (7)   Permittee fails to comply with any provision of the health
ordinances of the town, county or state after reasonable notice shall have been
given to the permittee to eliminate or correct any condition in violation of
such ordinances on the permitted premises.
      (8)   Permittee fails to comply with any provision of the town zoning
regulations, the Town Building Code, the Town Electrical Code, the Town
Mechanical Code or the Town Plumbing Code after reasonable notice shall have
been given to the permittee to eliminate or correct any condition in violation
of such ordinances on the permitted premises.
      (9)   Any employee of permittee has been convicted of a specified
criminal act committed by the employee on the permitted premises while employed
by the permittee.
      (10)   Permittee fails to comply with any provisions of this chapter
after reasonable notice or to correct any condition in violation of such an
ordinance on the permitted premises.
      (11)   Permittee furnishes incorrect or incomplete information on its
application for permit or application for renewal of permit.
      (12)   Permittee fails to comply with the occupational license ordinances
for the town after reasonable notice shall have been given to the permittee to
eliminate or correct any condition in violation of such ordinances related to
the permitted premises.
      (13)   Permittee fails to furnish notification of changes in application
information as required by §
61-20.
      (14)   Any person who has been convicted of a specified criminal act
within the last five years becomes an interested party of the facility holding
a permit under this chapter.
      (15)   Any contraband, as defined in Section 893.12(l), Florida Statutes,
as it may be amended from time to time, is found to be on the premises of the
facility or upon the person of any interested party or patron while on the
premises.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-27. PUBLIC HEARING CONCERNING REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (a)    Whenever the Town Commission shall find any of the conditions
enumerated in §
61-26 hereof to exist, it shall notify the permittee that the Town Commission
shall hold a public hearing to determine whether the continued operation of the
permitted premises is detrimental to the public health, morals, safety, or
welfare. In determining whether the continued operation of the permitted
premises is detrimental to the public health, morals, safety, or welfare, the
Town Commission shall consider whether the conditions enumerated in §
61-26 which are found to exist are related to the use or operation by the
permittee or an interested party thereof of the permitted premises and if such
conditions evidence a flagrant disregard for the health, morals, safety or
welfare of such permittee's patrons or employees or of persons residing or
doing business nearby.
   (b)    If the Town Commission determines that a condition enumerated in §
61-26 does exist as to a permitted premises and that such a condition relates
to the use or operation by the permittee or by an interested party thereof on
the permitted premises and that such condition evidences a flagrant disregard
for the health, morals, safety, or welfare of such permittee's patrons or
employees or of persons residing or doing business nearby, the Town Commission
shall revoke the permit of the permittee.
   (c)   If the Town Commission determines that no conditions enumerated in §
61-26 exist as to a permitted premises, or that no such existing condition
relates to the use or operation by the permittee or an interested party thereof
of the permitted premises, or that no such existing condition evidences a
flagrant disregard for the health, morals, safety, or welfare of such
permittee's patrons or employees, or of persons residing or doing business
nearby, the Town Commission shall not revoke the permit of the permittee.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-28. NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   The hearing shall be held after notice thereof has been given by mail to the
permittee at the address shown on the permit and after notice thereof by
publication at least once and not less than ten days prior to the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town. Any such hearing may be continued
from time to time without further notice. Such notice shall also list
specifically the acts or occurrences concerning which the hearing will be held.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§§ 61-29. – 61-34. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. COMMERCIAL CONTACT
§ 61-35. UNLAWFUL TO PERFORM COMMERCIAL CONTACT EXCEPT IN CERTAIN
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to perform or offer to perform,
commercial contact, unless such commercial contact shall take place in an
establishment permitted hereunder.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit, request, or require
any other person to manipulate, wash or touch directly or indirectly using any
instrument, thing, substance or device the body tissues of any person, except
as exempted in §
61-37.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-36. REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   List of services available is required. It shall be unlawful for any
permittee for a commercial physical contact establishment or any interested
party thereof to perform commercial contact on any patron in an establishment,
unless a list of services is available in the establishment, described in
readily understandable language, and the costs of such services are posted in
an open and conspicuous place in each room set aside for the performance of
commercial contact in such an establishment, and also in the main entrance of
such an establishment. It shall be unlawful for any permittee or any interested
party thereof to advertise or state that any service other than those posted is
available or to offer to perform, or to perform any service other than those
posted.
   (b)   Towels and linens are required. It shall be unlawful for any permittee
for a commercial physical contact establishment or any interested party thereof
to operate an establishment or for any person to perform commercial contact on
any patron in an establishment, unless clean and sanitary towels, sheets, and
linens are provided for each patron, with no common use of towels or linens or
reuse of towels or linens without relaundering permitted.
   (c)   Dress of person performing commercial contact. It shall be unlawful
for any person to perform commercial contact on any patron unless such person
shall be wearing a clean outer garment in the nature of a surgical gown. It
shall be unlawful for any person to perform commercial contact on any patron
unless the pubic area and buttocks of such person, and breasts of such person,
if the person is a female, are covered by a nontransparent covering.
   (d)   Advertising restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any permittee for a
commercial physical contact establishment or any interested party thereof to
exhibit, place, publish or distribute or cause to be exhibited, placed,
published or distributed any advertising matter or signage that would
reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any service is available other
than those services posted as required under division (a) of this section, or
that employees or other persons performing commercial contact at the
establishment are dressed in any manner other than the dress as required under
division (c) of this section.
   (e)   Facility open for inspection. Each facility shall be open for
inspection by police officers during all hours such a facility is open for
business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-37. EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The following classes of persons are exempted from the provisions of
§§
61-35 through
61-38 as it applies to commercial physical contact establishments:
      (1)   Persons licensed as a masseuse or masseur or apprentice masseuse
pursuant to Chapter 480, Florida Statutes.
      (2)   Persons authorized by state laws to practice medicine, surgery,
osteopathy, chiropody, naturopathy, dentistry, podiatry or persons holding a
drugless practitioner's certificate under state law;
      (3)   Registered nurses under state law;
      (4)   Barbers duly licensed under state law;
      (5)   Cosmetologists duly licensed under state law.
      (6)   Persons performing services in any licensed hospital, nursing home
or sanitarium;
      (7)   Coaches and athletic trainers employed by, or on behalf of, any
professional or amateur athletic team, or any bona fide state, county or
private school;
      (8)   Physical therapists duly licensed under state law; or
      (9)   Instructors in programs sponsored by governmental entities or
corporations not for profit under state laws.
   (b)    Any exemption granted under this chapter is effective only to the
extent that the bona fide practice of the profession or business of the person
exempted overlaps into the field comprehended by this section and exemptions
under this section are only for those activities which are performed in the
course of the bona fide practice of the business or profession of the person
exempted.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-38. PERMIT DOES NOT ALLOW ACTS OTHERWISE UNLAWFUL.
   The issuance of a permit hereunder shall not be construed as permitting,
licensing, or allowing the commission of any act otherwise prohibited or made
unlawful by a valid town or county ordinance, or state or federal law.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§§ 61-39. – 61-44. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. OBSCENE MATERIALS
§ 61-45. LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is the intention of the Town Commission that this article shall apply to
all persons within the town and shall specifically be deemed to be an adoption
of an endorsement of state laws pertaining to this subject, but specifically
making it unlawful as stated therein to allow the display of obscene materials
in an area where unrestricted access is given to juveniles.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-46. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Any interpretation of construction of this article concerning what
constitutes pornographic materials or obscenity shall be construed in
accordance with the standards set forth in Miller vs. California, 413 U.S. 15
(1973).
   (b)   The standard for reviewing the material as a whole is whether or not:
      (1)   The material appeals to a prurient interest in sex;
      (2)   The material portrays sexual conduct in a patently offensive way;
or
      (3)   The material does not have serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§§ 61-47. – 61-54. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. LOCATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 61-55. PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (a)   Every adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult dancing
facility or commercial physical contact establishment or any part thereof shall
be restricted to property zoned within the 6-B Downtown Business District
according to the zoning regulations of the Town.
   (b)   Any store or business in which access to all or part of the premises
is prohibited to juveniles under this chapter, shall not be located within a
250-foot perimeter of any other such store or business or within a 250-foot
perimeter of any commercial establishment where alcoholic beverages are
possessed, consumed, purchased, sold, disposed, given away or otherwise
distributed; churches; public or private schools, nursery schools,
kindergartens, or day care centers; or public parks or playgrounds. The
perimeters shall be measured from outside building line to outside building
line, unless one or both establishments are located in a building containing
more than one store or business, in which case the perimeters shall be measured
from store wall to store wall.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§ 61-56. WAIVER.
   The Town Commission may waive the restriction set forth in §
61-55, if it finds that:
      (1)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties, and that the spirit and intent of this chapter
will be observed;
      (2)   All appropriate regulations of this chapter will be observed; and
      (3)   The proposed use will not be contrary to any adopted neighborhood
redevelopment plan or the Comprehensive Plan nor contrary to any downtown
redevelopment program.
(Ord. 85-4, passed 11-20-85)
§§ 61-57. – 61-99. RESERVED.
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR IDENTIFICATION CARD
TOWN OF MELBOURNE BEACH, FLORIDA APPLICATION FOR IDENTIFICATION CARD FOR
EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS EMPLOYED BY PHYSICAL CONTACT
ESTABLISHMENTS, ADULT BOOKSTORES, ADULT DANCING FACILITIES AND ADULT MOTION
PICTURE THEATERS
Check one:
Initial application                                                   
Renewal application                                              
Date                         
1.   Application fee of $15.00 must be submitted with this Application.
2.   State the name and business address of the employer for which you
requested this identification card.
3.   State your name, local address and date of birth.
4.   State whether you have been convicted within five years of the date of
this application of any felony, or soliciting for prostitution, pandering,
prostitution, keeping a house of ill fame, lewd or lascivious behavior or sale
or possession of a controlled substance or narcotic.
5.   If the answer to question 4 was yes, state the date and place of
conviction and the nature of the crime for which you were convicted.
No application shall be complete until the applicant has been fingerprinted in
the presence of a Police Officer employed by Melbourne Beach, Florida on a form
approved by the Police Department and said fingerprints have been attached
hereto; and the applicant has submitted two current color head to shoulders
photographs.
I HEREBY SWEAR that the answers to the above are true and correct, that I have
read and understand the provisions of Chapter 61 of the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, entitled "Community Standards," that I
consent to an investigation of my criminal record, and to the submission of my
name, address, date of birth and my fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for a fingerprint check, and that I am under a continuing
obligation to update the information contained in this application.
SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE
ME THIS                               DAY OF
                                       , A.D., 199   
                                                     
NOTARY PUBLIC
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:                
APPENDIX B: ANNUAL REGULATION PERMIT
TOWN OF MELBOURNE BEACH, FLORIDA REGULATION PERMIT APPLICATION FOR COMMERCIAL
PHYSICAL CONTACT ESTABLISHMENTS, ADULT BOOKSTORES, ADULT DANCING FACILITIES,
AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS
   Check One:
   Initial Application                                                   
   Renewal Application                                              
   Date                          
   (PLEASE USE BACK AND EXTRA SHEETS PROVIDED, IF NECESSARY)
   l.   Application fee must be submitted with this application.
      Initial application $250.00
      Renewal application $100.00
   2.   State the name, address and date of birth of applicant or if applicant
is a partnership, the names, addresses and dates of birth of the persons who
constitute such partnership, or if applicant is a corporation, the names,
addresses and dates of birth of its directors and officers.
   3.   State the current or intended address of the business for which this
application has been made.
   4.   State the names, addresses, positions and dates of birth of all
employees or persons under contract for employment or persons otherwise
intended to be employed, at the business for which this application is made.
   5.   State the names, addresses, positions and dates of birth of all persons
presently employed as independent contractors, or under contract for employment
as independent contractors, at the business for which this application is made.
   6.   State whether the Applicant, or any person named in questions four or
five (4 or 5) above, has been convicted within five years of the date of this
application of any felony, or soliciting for prostitution, pandering,
prostitution, keeping a house of ill fame, lewd or lascivious behavior or sale
or possession of a controlled substance or narcotic.
   7.   If the answer to question six (6) above was yes on any count, state the
name of any such person or persons convicted, the date and place of conviction,
and the nature of the crime for which any such person was convicted.
   No application shall be complete until all persons named in this application
have been fingerprinted in the presence of a Police Officer employed by
Melbourne Beach, Florida on a form approved by the Police Department and said
fingerprints have been attached hereto; and the applicant has submitted two
current color head to shoulders photographs.
      I HEREBY SWEAR that the answers to the above are true and correct, that I
have read and understand Chapter 61 of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Melbourne Beach, Florida, entitled "Community Standards," and that I am under a
continuing obligation to update the information contained in this Application.
                                            
Applicant
Position:                                    
SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE
ME THIS          DAY OF               
                                                 
NOTARY PUBLIC
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES:          
CHAPTER 65: LOCAL BUSINESS TAX
Section
   
65-1   Business tax required
   
65-2   Definitions
   
65-3   Conditions for levy of tax
   
65-4   Procedure when occupation is not covered by chapter
   
65-5   Tax
   
65-6   Due date for annual business tax; delinquent payments; penalty for
failure to pay annual business tax
   
65-7   Maximum term of business tax receipts; expiration date
   
65-8   Business tax for new businesses
   
65-9   Business tax receipt good for business to which it was issued
   
65-10   Partial exemption for engaging in business or occupation in enterprise
zone
   
65-11   Transfer of business tax receipt; fee
   
65-12   Prohibition of issuance of business tax receipt without exhibition of
state license or registration
   
65-13   Exemptions
   
65-14   Mobile home setup operations; local license prohibited; exception
   
65-15   Pharmacies and pharmacists
   65-16 - 65-99   Reserved
§ 65-1. BUSINESS TAX REQUIRED.
   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful without first paying the
business tax required herein for any person to engage in any business in the
town. The Town Clerk after payment of the business tax will provide a receipt
that indicates that the business tax has been paid. Such proof of payment
together with approval by the Building Official or other authorized employees
of the town of the proposed business location, for conformity with applicable
zoning, building and fire codes, and approval by the Town Manager shall
constitute compliance and allow the person to engage in business. All appeals
must be made to the Town Commission within 30 days of denial.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-2. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS, PROFESSION and OCCUPATION. The terms do not include the customary
religious, charitable or educational activities of nonprofit religious,
nonprofit charitable and nonprofit educational institutions in this stale,
which institutions are more particularly defined and limited as follows:
      (1)   CHARITABLE INSTITUTIONS. Only nonprofit corporations operating
physical facilities in this state at which are provided charitable services, a
reasonable percentage of which are without cost to those unable to pay.
      (2)   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS. State tax-supported or parochial, church
and nonprofit private schools, colleges or universities conducting regular
classes and courses of study required for accreditation by or membership in the
Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, the Department of
Education or the Florida Council of Independent Schools. Nonprofit libraries,
art galleries and museums open to the public are defined as EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS and are eligible for exemption.
      (3)   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS. Churches and ecclesiastical or
denominational organizations or established physical p1aces for worship in this
state at which nonprofit religious services and activities are regularly
conducted and carried on. The term also means church cemeteries.
   CLASSIFICATION. The method by which a business or group of businesses is
identified by size or type or both.
   ENTERPRISES ZONE. An area authorized to be an enterprise zone pursuant to
Section 290.0055, Florida Statutes, and approved by the Secretary of Community
Affairs pursuant to Section 290.0065, Florida Statutes.
   LOCAL BUSINESS TAX. The method by which the Town of Melbourne Beach grants
the privilege of engaging in or managing any business profession or occupation
within its jurisdiction. It does not mean any fees or licenses paid to any
board, commission or officer for permits, registration, examination or
inspection unless other provided by law.
   PERSON. Means, but is not limited to any individual, firm, partnership,
joint venture, syndicate or other group or combination acting as, a unit,
association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, trustee, executor,
administrator, receiver or other fiduciary.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the tax imposed under the provisions of this
chapter, any agent required to file and pay the tax imposed hereunder; and the
heirs, successors, assignees and transferees of any such person or agent.
(§ 205.022, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-3. CONDITIONS FOR LEVY OF TAX.
   (a)   The following conditions are hereby imposed on the authority of the
Town Commission to levy business tax:
      (1)   The tax shall be based upon reasonable classifications and shall be
uniform throughout any class.
      (2)   No business tax levied hereunder shall be at a rate greater than
that in effect in the town for the year beginning October 1, 1971; however,
beginning October 1, 1980, the Town Commission may increase the business tax
authorized by Chapter 205, Florida Statutes. The amount of such increase above
the tax rate levied or October 1, 1971, for license taxes levied at a flat rate
may be up to 100% for business taxes which are $100 or less; 50% for business
taxes that are between $101 and $300; and 25% for business taxes that are more
than $300. Beginning October 1, 1982, such increase shall not exceed 25% for
business taxes that are more than $300. Beginning October 1, 1982, such
increase shall not exceed 25% for business taxes levied at graduated or per
unit rates. Such authority to increase business taxes shall not apply to any
utility franchised by the town for which a franchise fee is paid.
      (3)   No business tax certificate shall be issued for more than one year
and all tax certificates shall expire on October 1 of each year except as
otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-4. PROCEDURE WHEN OCCUPATION IS NOT COVERED BY CHAPTER.
   Every person engaging in a business, occupation or profession and not
specifically designated by this chapter shall apply to the Town Commission for
a ruling on the business tax and the establishment of a tax thereon.
('75 Code, 15-12) (Ord. 79-13, passed 10-23-79; Am. Ord. 86-11, passed 7-8-86;
Am. Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-5. TAX.
   The businesses, occupations and professions that are required to pay the
business tax to the town at the rate determined for each occupation are as set
forth below:
   (a)   Retail Business      Annual Tax
      Antique Shops         $ 50.00
      Bait and Tackle      50.00
      Bakery            50.00
      Beer/Wine Liquor Store   50.00
      Book Stores         50.00
      Ceramics         50.00
      Clothing (new)      50.00
      Convenience Stores      50.00
      Department Variety      50.00
      Doughnut Shop      50.00
      Dressmaking         20.00
      Drug Store         50.00
      Fabric            50.00
      Fish Markets         50.00
      Florist            50.00
      Furniture Stores (new)   50.00
      Gift Stores         50.00
      Grocery Stores      50.00
      Hardware         50.00
      Home Appliance      50.00
      Ice Cream         50.00
      Interior Decorator      50.00
      Jewelry         50.00
      Landscaper         50.00
      Meat Markets         50.00
      Music Stores         50.00
      Plant Nurseries      50.00
      Shoe            50.00
      Spas/Jacuzzi Sales and Installation   50.00
      Stationery         50.00
      Supermarkets         50.00
      Surf Shops (No Mfg.)      50.00
      Tailor Shops         50.00
      Tobacco Dealers      50.00
      Tobacco Stores      50.00
      Video Sales/Rentals      50.00
   (b)   Service Business      Annual Tax
      Advertising Agencies      $ 20.00   
      Air Conditioner Service/Repair   50.00
      Apartment and Rental Units
       Minimum three      20.00
      Each additional      10.00
      Appraiser of Property/Antiques   50.00
      and the like
      Barber/Beauty Shops
      One chair         20.00
      Each additional chair      10.00
      Bars and Lounges      50.00
      Brokerage Firms      100.00
      Each additional Agent      50.00
      Building Management      50.00
      Carpet Cleaning      50.00
      Catering Service      50.00
      Collection Agents      50.00
      Communication      50.00
      Credit Association      50.00
      Employment Agent      20.00
      Financial Institutions inclusive    200.00
      of Bank, Trust, Savings & Loan
      Credit or Small Loan Companies
      Gasoline Stations
      First pump         20.00
      Each additional pump      10.00
      Auto Repair         200.00
      Auto Wrecking and
      Towing Service      50.00
      General Contractors      50.00
      Home Maintenance Service   50.00
      Household Products      50.00
      Insurance Companies      50.00
      Each insurance company
      writing any class of insurance
      upon any person or property
       residing or located within the
      town
      Laundries, Coin Operated
      Each machine         4.00
      Minimum         50.00
      Machines, Coin Operated
      Each machine         20.00
      (excluding Laundries)
      Laundries and Dry Cleaning   20.00
      Service Plant located out of town
      Locksmith         50.00
      Mail Order Business      50.00
      Management Consultant   50.00
      Newspaper Distribution   50.00
      Photographer         50.00
      Publisher         50.00
      Radio and TV Repair      50.00
      Real Estate Offices      50.00
      Broker            20.00
      Restaurants
      Per chair or stool      1.50
      Minimum         50.00
      Shoe Repair         50.00
      Subcontractors (Office only)   50.00
      Travel Agencies      50.00
      Upholsterers         50.00
      Window Cleaners      50.00
   (c)   Profession         Annual Tax
      Accountants         $ 50.00
      Attorneys         50.00
      Dentists         50.00
      Engineers         50.00
      Physicians         50.00
      Optometrists         50.00
      Surgeons         50.00
      Surveyors         50.00
      Veterinary         50.00
   (d)   Peddlers, itinerant merchants and solicitors: $7.50.
      (1)   Authorization to conduct such business shall be good for 90 days,
provided that such authorization shall expire by no later than October 1 of any
calendar year.
      (2)   No business tax shall be levied against any peddler, itinerant
merchant, or solicitor, unless said business, profession, or occupation is:
         (A)   A peddler, itinerant merchant, or solicitor who maintains its
permanent business location or branch office within the town; or
         (B)   A peddler, itinerant merchant, or solicitor who does not qualify
under the provisions of division (d)(2)(A) of this section but who transacts
its business or engages in interstate commerce, if such business tax is no
prohibited sec. 8 of Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution.
      (3)   Prior to October 1 of each year any peddler, itinerant merchant, or
solicitor, within the town who claims not to fall within the purview of
division (d)(1) or(2) of this section shall execute an affidavit under penalty
of perjury or pursuant to Section 322.33, Florida Statutes, so affirming said
fact. Failure to do so shall create a rebuttable presumption that the peddler,
itinerant merchant, or solicitor shall be subject to a business tax pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-6. DUE DATE FOR ANNUAL BUSINESS TAX; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; PENALTY FOR
FAILURE TO PAY ANNUAL BUSINESS TAX.
   (a)   All town business taxes shall be payable to the Town Clerk beginning
September 1 of each year and shall be due and payable on or before October 1 of
each year and shall expire on September 30 of the succeeding year. In the event
October 1 falls on a weekend or holiday, the tax shall be due and payable on or
before the working day following October 1. Provisions for payment of partial
taxes may be made in the resolution or ordinance authorizing such taxes.
   (b)   (1)   Those taxes not paid by October 1 shall be considered delinquent
and subject to a delinquency penalty of 10% for the month of October, plus an
additional 5% penalty for each month of delinquency thereafter; provided, that
the total delinquency penalty shall not exceed 25% of the business tax for the
delinquent establishment.
      (2)   Additionally, any person engaging in or maintaining any business,
occupation or profession without first paying the business tax if required
hereunder, shall be subject to a penalty of 25% of the license amount
determined to be due, in addition to any other penalty provided by law or
ordinance.
   (c)   All violations shall be referred to the Code Enforcement special
magistrate for disposition in accordance with the penalties provided herein.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07; Am. Ord. 2020-05, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 65-7. MAXIMUM TERM OF BUSINESS TAX RECEIPTS; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (a)   The business tax shall be paid annually.
   (b)   All business tax receipts issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall expire on September 30 next following the date of issuance.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-8. BUSINESS TAX FOR NEW BUSINESSES.
   Any business tax receipts issued for a new business, occupation or
profession after April 1 shall be charged at one-half the amount of the full
year tax provided for in §
65-5.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-9. BUSINESS TAX RECEIPT GOOD FOR BUSINESS TO WHICH IT WAS ISSUED.
   A business tax receipt when issued shall be good for the particular
business, profession, occupation or agent and at the particu1ar address of the
business which is designated business tax certificate for the person to whom it
was issued.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-10. PARTIAL EXEMPTION FOR ENGAGING IN BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION IN ENTERPRISE
ZONE.
   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions any state law, the Town Commission may
authorize by appropriate resolution or ordinance, adopted pursuant to the
procedure established in Chapter 205, Florida Statutes, the exemption of 50% of
the business tax levied for the privilege of engaging in or managing any
business, profession or occupation in the town when such privilege is exercised
at a permanent business location or branch office located in an enterprise
zone.
   (b)   Such exemption applies to each classification for which business tax
certificate is required in the jurisdiction. Classifications shall be the same
in an enterprise zone as elsewhere in the jurisdiction. Each town business tax
paid with the exemption authorized in this section shall be in the same general
form as the other town taxes and shall expire at the same time as the others
expire as fixed by law. Any tax paid with the exemption authorized in this
section is nontransferable. The exemption authorized in this section does not
apply to any penalty authorized in §
65-6.
   (c)   If the town provides the exemption authorized in this section, it
shall issue to each person who may be entitled to the exemption a tax receipt
pursuant to the provisions contained in this section. Before a tax receipt with
such exemption is issued to an applicant, the town must, in each case, be
provided proof that the applicant is entitled to such exemption. Such proof
shall be made by means of a statement filed under oath with the Town Clerk,
which statement indicates that the permanent business location or branch office
of the applicant is located in an enterprise zone located within the town.
   (d)   Any business tax receipt obtained with the exemption authorized in
this division by the commission of fraud upon the issuing authority shall be
deemed null and void. Any person who fraudulently obtains an exemption and
thereafter engages, under color of such payment in any business, profession or
occupation requiring such payment is subject to prosecution for engaging in a
business, profession or occupation without having paid the required business
tax under the laws of the State of Florida and the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   In the event an area authorized to be an enterprise zone pursuant to
Section 290.0055, Florida Statutes, has not yet been approved pursuant to
Section 290.0065, Florida Statutes, the Town Commission may enact the
appropriate ordinance or resolution authorizing the exemption permitted in thin
section; however, such ordinance or resolution will not be effective until such
area is approved pursuant to Section 280.0065, Florida Statutes.
   (f)   No business tax receipt issued with the exemption authorized in this
section for any period beginning on or after October 1, 1994.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-11. TRANSFER OF BUSINESS TAX RECEIPT; FEE.
   Business tax receipts may be transferred to a new owner when there is a bona
fide sale of the business upon payment of a transfer fee of $3 and presentation
of evidence of the sale. Upon written request and presentation of the original
receipt of payment, business tax receipts may be transferred from one location
to another location in Melbourne Beach upon payment of a transfer fee of $3.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-12. PROHIBITION OF ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS TAX RECEIPT WITHOUT EXHIBITION OF
STATE LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Any person applying for or renewing a business tax receipt beginning
October 1, 1985, to practice any profession regulated by the Department of
Professional Regulation or any board or commission thereof or by any
regulatory/licensing body of the State of Florida applicable to any profession
or business set forth in §
65-5 hereof or of which this chapter is otherwise applicable, must exhibit an
active state certificate, registration or license, or proof of copy of the
same, before such business tax receipt may be issued. Thereafter, only persons
applying for the first time must exhibit such certification, registration, or
license.
   (b)   Any regulatory or license entity of the state, as described in this
section, shall by August 1 of each year, supply to the town a current list of
professions it regulates and information regarding those persons for who local
business tax receipt should not be renewed due to the suspension, revocation or
inactivation of such person‘s state license, certificate or registration. The
official who issues business tax receipt shall not renew such receipt unless
such person can exhibit an active state certificate, registration, or license.
   (c)   This section shall not apply to Sections 489.113, 489.117, 489.119,
489.131, 489.511, 489.513, 489.521, or 489.537, Florida Statutes.
(Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-13. EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Certain disabled persons, the aged, and widows with minor dependents.
      (1)   All disabled persons physically incapable of manual labor, widows
with minor dependents, and persons 65 years of age or older, with not more than
one employee or helper, and who use their own capital only, not in excess of
$1,000, shall be allowed to engage in any business or occupation in Melbourne
Beach without being required to pay a business tax. The exemption provided by
this section shall be allowed only upon the certificate of the county
physician, or other reputable physician that the applicant claiming the
exemption is disabled, the nature and extent of the disability being specified
therein, and in case the exemption is claimed by a widow with minor dependents,
or a person over 65 years of age, proof of the right to the exemption shall be
made. Any person entitled to the exemption provided by this section shall, upon
application and furnishing of the necessary proof as aforesaid, be issued a
business tax receipt which shall have plainly stamped or written across the
face thereof the fact that it is issued under this section, and the reason for
the exemption shall be written thereon.
      (2)   In no event under this or any other law shall any person, veteran
or otherwise, be allowed any exemption whatsoever from the payment of any
amount required by law for the issuance of a business tax receipt to sell
intoxicating liquors or malt and vinous beverages.
   (b)   Disabled veterans of any war or their un-remarried spouses.
      (1)   Any bona fide, permanent resident elector of the state who served
as an officer or enlisted person during any of the periods specified in Section
1.01(14), Florida Statutes in the Armed Forces of the United States, National
Guard, or United States Coast Guard or Coast Guard Reserve, or any temporary
member thereof who has actually been or may hereafter be reassigned by the Air
Force, Army, Navy, Coast Guard or Marines to active duty during any war,
declared or undeclared, armed conflicts, crises and the like, who was honorably
discharged from the service of the United States and who, at the time of his or
her application for a business tax certificate as hereinafter mentioned, shall
be disabled from performing manual labor shall, upon sufficient identification,
proof of being a permanent resident elector in the state and production of an
honorable discharge from the service of the United States:
         (A)   Be granted a business tax receipt to engage in any business or
occupation which may be carried on mainly through the personal efforts of the
exempt payee as a means of livelihood and for which the state, county or
municipal license does not exceed the sum of $50 for each without payment of
any business tax otherwise provided for by law; or
         (B)   Be entitled to an exemption to the extent of $50 on any business
tax to engage in any business or occupation in the state which may be carried
on mainly through the personal efforts of the person as a means of livelihood
when the state, county or town tax for such business or occupation shall be
more than $50. The exemption heretofore referred to shall extend to and include
the right of the person to operate an automobile-for-hire of not exceeding five
passenger capacity, including the driver, when it shall be made to appear that
such automobile is bona fide owned or contracted to be purchased by the person
and is being operated by him or her as a means of livelihood and that the
proper license for the operation of such motor vehicle for private use has been
applied for and attached to said motor vehicle and the proper fees therefore
paid by the licensee.
      (2)   When any such person shall apply for the right to conduct any
business or occupation for which the town tax as fixed by law shall exceed the
sum of $50, the remainder of such tax in excess of $50 shall be paid in cash.
      (3)   (A)   The town shall issue to such persons as may be entitled
hereunder a business tax receipt pursuant to the foregoing provision and
subject to the conditions thereof. Such tax receipt when issued shall be marked
across the face thereof “Veterans Exempt Receipt Not Transferable.” Before
issuing the receipt, proof shall be duly made in each case that the applicant
is entitled under the conditions of this law to receive the exemption herein
provided for. The proof may be made by establishing to the satisfaction of the
town by means of certificate of honorable discharge or certified copy thereof
that the applicant is a veteran within the purview of this section and by
exhibiting:
            1.   A certificate of government- rated disability to an extent of
10% or more;
            2.   The affidavit or testimony of a reputable physician who
personally knows the applicant and who makes oath that the applicant is
disabled from performing manual labor as a means of livelihood;
            3.   The certificate of the veteran’s service officer of the county
in which applicant lives, duly executed under the hand and seal of the chief
officer and secretary thereof, attesting the fact that the applicant is
disabled and entitled to receive a license within the meaning and intent of
this division;
            4.   A pension certificate issued to him or her by the United
States by reason of such disability; or
            5.   Such other reasonable proof as may be required by the tax
collecting authority to establish the fact that such applicant is so disabled.
         (B)   All receipts issued under this section shall be in the same
general form as other state, county and municipal licenses and shall expire at
the same time as such other licenses are fixed by law to expire.
      (4)   All receipts obtained under the provisions of this section by the
commission of fraud upon the town shall be deemed null and void. Any person who
has fraudulently obtained any such receipt or who has fraudulently received any
transfer of a receipt issued to another and has thereafter engaged in any
business or occupation requiring a receipt under color thereof shall be subject
to prosecution as for engaging in a business or occupation without having the
required receipt under the laws of the state and this chapter.
      (5)   In no event, under this or any other law, shall any person, veteran
or otherwise, be allowed any exemption whatsoever from the payment of any
amount required by law for the issuance of a license to sell intoxicating
liquors or malt and vinous beverages.
      (6)   The un-remarried spouse of the deceased disabled veteran of any war
in which the United States Armed Forces participated will be entitled to the
same exemptions as the disabled veteran.
   (c)   Motor vehicles. Vehicles used by any person receipted under this
chapter for the sale and delivery of tangible personal property at either
wholesale or retail from his or her place of business on which a business tax
is paid shall not be construed to be separate places of business and a business
tax may not be levied on such vehicles or the operator thereof as salesperson
or otherwise by the town, any other law to the contrary notwithstanding.
   (d)   Farm, aquacultural, grove, horticultural, floricultural, tropical
piscicultural and tropical fish farm products.
      (1)   No business tax receipt shall be required of any natural person for
the privilege of engaging in the selling of farm, aquacultural, grove,
horticultural, floricultural, tropical piscicultural or tropical fish farm
products, or products manufactured therefrom, except intoxicating liquors, wine
or beer when such products were grown or produced by such natural person in the
state.
      (2)   A wholesale farmers’ produce market may pay a tax of not more than
$200 for a receipt that will entitle the market’s stall tenants to engage in
the selling of agricultural and horticultural products therein, in lieu of such
tenants being required to obtain individual local business tax receipts to so
engage.
   (e)   Religious tenets. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
require a business tax receipt for practicing the religious tenets of any
church.
(§ 205.191, Fla. Stat.)
   (f)   Charitable organizations; occasional sales, fund raising. No business
tax receipt shall be required of any charitable, religious, fraternal, youth,
civic, service or other such organization when the organization makes
occasional sales or engages in fund-raising projects when the projects are
performed exclusively by the members thereof and when the proceeds derived from
the activities are used exclusively in the charitable, religious, fraternal,
youth, civic and service activities of the organization.
(§ 205.192, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-14. MOBILE HOME SETUP OPERATIONS; LOCAL LICENSE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   The town does not require a duly licensed mobile home dealer or a duly
licensed mobile home manufacturer or an employee of such dealer or manufacturer
who performs setup operations as defined in Section 320.822, Florida Statutes,
to pay a business tax to engage in such operations. However, such dealer or
manufacturer must obtain a local receipt for his or her permanent business
location or branch office, which receipt shall not require for its issuance any
conditions other than those required by Chapter 320, Florida Statutes.
(§ 205.193, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§ 65-15. PHARMACIES AND PHARMACISTS.
   The town shall not issue a business tax receipt to operate a pharmacy unless
the applicant shall first exhibit a current permit issued by the Board of
Pharmacy. No such business tax receipt shall be required in order to practice
the profession of pharmacy.
(§ 205.196, Fla. Stat.) (Ord. 2007-04, adopted 6-6-07)
§§ 65-16. - 65-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 66: PARADES AND PICKETING
Section
Article I. Residential Picketing
   
66-1   Declaration of intent
   
66-2   Picketing residency or dwelling unlawful
   
66-3   Penalty
   66-4 – 66-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
§ 66-1. DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   It is declared that the protection and preservation of the home is the
keystone to democratic government; that the public health and welfare and the
good order of the community require that members of the community enjoy in
their homes and dwellings a feeling of well-being, tranquility and privacy and
when absent from their homes and dwellings, carry with them a sense of security
inherent in the assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes
and dwellings; that the practice of picketing before or about residences and
dwellings causes emotional disturbance and distress to the occupants; obstructs
and interferes with the free use of public sidewalks and public ways of travel;
that such practice has as its objects the harassing of such occupants; and
without resort to such practice full opportunity exists and under the terms and
provisions of this article will continue to exist for the exercise of freedom
of speech and other constitutional rights and that the provisions hereinafter
enacted are necessary for the public interest to avoid the detrimental results
herein set forth.
(Ord. 91-01, passed 5-15-91)
§ 66-2. PICKETING RESIDENCY OR DWELLING UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in picketing before or about the
residence or dwelling of any individual in the town.
(Ord. 91-01, passed 5-15-91)
§ 66-3. PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this article shall be declared to be a violation of the
law, punishable as provided in §
1-99 of this code.
   (B)   At the request of the Town Manager or the Town Commission, the Town
Attorney is authorized to seek an injunction against violation of this article.
(Ord. 91-01, passed 5-15-91)
§§ 66-4. – 66-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 70: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
70-1   Definitions
   
70-2   License requirement
   
70-3   Application procedure
   
70-4   Standards for issuance
   
70-5   Revocation procedure
   
70-6   Standards for revocation
   
70-7   Appeal procedure
   
70-8   Exhibition of identification
   70-9 – 70-19   Reserved
Article II. Charitable Solicitation
   
70-20   Adoption of state law by reference
   70-21 – 70-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 70-2. LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (a)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (b)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Commission.
   (c)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (d)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
§ 70-3. APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Town Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (A) The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (B)   The local address of such individual;
         (C)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (D)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (A) The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (B)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (C)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (a)(2)(A) above, or the person identified in division (a)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (b) Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to provide
further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (a) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (c)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   Copies of all printed advertising proposed to be used in connection
with the applicant's business;
      (2)   Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant
proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative.
All attachments to any application shall be made and considered to be a part of
the application.
   (d)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (c) of this
section, a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days
prior to the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of
contagious or communicable disease.
§ 70-4. STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (b)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
substantial, competent evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business
would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or
general welfare. In particular, evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character, will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 70-5. REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
70-6. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address
of the permit holder, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 70-6. STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license
application;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conduction of the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in
such a way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
§ 70-7. APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
70-4 or
70-6 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Commission. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Commission, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Commission shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
70-5.
   (b)   The order of the Town Commission after the hearing shall be final.
§ 70-8. EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (b)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or
"Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
§§ 70-9. – 70-19. RESERVED
ARTICLE II. CHARITABLE SOLICITATION
§ 70-20. ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of Chapter 496, Florida Statutes, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference in this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
§§ 70-21. – 70-99. RESERVED
CHAPTER 73: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
73-1   Adoption of state misdemeanors
   73-2 – 73-9   Reserved
Article II. Offenses Against Property
   
73-10   Damaging property of another
   73-11 – 73-14   Reserved
Article III. Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
73-15   Curfew for minors
   
73-16   Throwing stones, missiles
   
73-17   Abandoned refrigerators
   
73-18   Lewd and lascivious behavior
   
73-19   Breach of peace; disorderly conduct
Article IV. Rave Clubs
   
73-30   Legislative findings, intent, and purpose
   
73-31   Definitions
   
73-32   Permit required; application for permit
   
73-33   Requirement for issuance of permit; posting
   
73-34   Application and renewal fees
   
73-35   Persons under eighteen prohibited in adult rave clubs
   
73-36   Persons age eighteen and over prohibited in juvenile rave clubs
   
73-37   Hours of operation
   
73-38   Security paramedic
   
73-39   Land development Code; fire prevention; offenses
   
73-40   Rave club operator
   
73-41   Inspection
   
73-42   Expiration of permit
   
73-43   Suspension of permit
   
73-44   Revocation of permit
   
73-45   Appeals
   
73-46   Transfer of permit
   
73-47   Penalties and remedies
   73-48 - 73-49   Reserved
Article V. Sexual Predators and Offenders
   
73-50   Findings and intent
   
73-51   Definitions
   
73-52   Sexual violator residence prohibition; penalties; exceptions
   
73-53   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to certain sexual
violators; penalties
   
73-54   Temporary emergency shelters; sexual predators, sexual offenders, and
sexual violators notification requirements
   73-55 - 73-59   Reserved
Article VI. Parks and Beaches
   
73-60   Definitions
   
73-61   Smoking prohibited
   
73-62   Penalties
   73-63 – 73-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73-1. ADOPTION OF STATE MISDEMEANORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act which under the laws
of the state constitutes a misdemeanor. The commission of any such act shall be
considered a violation of this code of ordinances.
(`75 Code, § 17-l)
§§ 73-2. – 73-9. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 73-10. DAMAGING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by act or omission, to cause damage to
the property of another person.
(`75 Code, § 17-2)
§§ 73-11. – 73-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 73-15. CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (a)   Curfew.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 years of
age to be in a public place:
         (A)   After 1:00 am. and before 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (B)   After midnight on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; or
         (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (b)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by his
parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (A)   Lawful employment; or
         (B)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event.
   (c)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating this section's provisions and may take the minor into custody when
found violating provisions of this section. The officer shall take the minor to
the police headquarters where the name of the minor's parent, guardian or
person having legal custody of him shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be
notified or summoned by the investigating officer to appear at the police
headquarters to complete the investigation.
      (3)   The investigating or apprehending officer, if he is satisfied a
violation has occurred, shall cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest and
appearance of the parent, guardian, or person in custody of the minor to appear
in the appropriate court to answer the charge of a violation of this section.
   (d)   Penalty. Any parent, guardian, or person having the legal custody of a
minor which minor violates any provision of division (a) of this section, shall
be punished as set forth in §
1-99. In addition, any minor violating any provision of division (a) of this
section, may be referred to Juvenile Court.
§ 73-16. THROWING STONES, MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw a ball, stone or other missile
or cause the same by any means to fly through the air on any public street or
in proximity to any building or structure.
(`75 Code, § 17-3)
§ 73-17. ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling or in any place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded refrigerator or any container of any kind which has an airtight door
or lock which cannot be released from the inside.
(`75 Code, § 17-5)
§ 73-18. LEWD AND LASCIVIOUS BEHAVIOR.
   If any man and woman, not being married to each other, lewdly and
lasciviously associate and cohabit together or if any man or woman, married or
unmarried, engages in open and gross lewdness and lascivious behavior, they
shall be guilty of a violation, punishable as provided in Sections 775.082 or
775.083, Florida Statutes.
(§ 798.02, Fla. Stat.)
§ 73-19. BREACH OF PEACE; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Whoever commits such acts as are of a nature to corrupt the public morals,
outrage the sense of public decency or affect the peace and quiet of persons
who may witness them; engages in brawling or fighting or engages in such
conduct as to constitute a breach of the peace or disorderly conduct, shall be
guilty of a violation, punishable as provided in Sections 775.082 or 775.083,
Florida Statutes.
(§ 877.03, Fla. Stat.)
ARTICLE IV. RAVE CLUBS
§ 73-30. LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS, INTENT, AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   The town hereby finds and determines, as a matter of fact, that the
late night and all night rave clubs and similar forums of assembly, commonly
referred to as "raves," are sites for the sale, possession and use of illicit
drugs.
   (b)   The town also finds such raves expose drug activity to the uninitiated
youth of the community, and such exposure to drug activity occurring at such
raves is often found to result in drug addiction, overdose and death of both
juveniles and adults.
   (c)   The town hereby finds raves provide an arena for predatory-type sexual
crimes, thus, for the protection of our town's youth, juveniles should not
congregate in such social settings with adults; additionally, regulation of
raves is also necessary for the protection of adult victims of such crimes.
   (d)   The town hereby finds raves are often times the sites for violent
criminal activity, as well as street gang activity as defined in Chapter 874,
Florida Statutes.
   (e)   The town hereby finds that the dangerous criminal activity occurring
at such raves occurs predominately in the late night/early morning hours.
   (f)   The town hereby finds that the actions of rave patrons entering and
exiting rave club establishments has a deleterious effect on nearby residential
and commercial properties in terms of excessive noise, traffic and debris, and
such impacts are exacerbated by the fact that rave patrons enter and exit such
raves at extraordinarily late night/early morning hours when citizens have a
reasonable expectation of peace and quiet.
   (g)   The town finds that the above-referenced problems associated with
raves are unique and specific to such rave club establishments and are not
prevalent in other types of unregulated places of assembly.
   (h)   It is the intent of the town to address the unique problems associated
with raves by implementing rave club regulations for both juvenile and adult
rave clubs to prevent rave club contact between juveniles and adults so as to
prevent and/or reduce illicit or undesirable juvenile involvement and exposure
to illegal drugs and dangerous criminal activity, and further to protect both
juveniles and adults from criminal activity that occurs at such raves.
   (i)   The town hereby asserts that the following purposes of the rave club
regulations set forth herein are matters of legitimate, substantial and
compelling governmental interests:
      (1)   To protect juveniles and adults from illegal drug activity,
including use, sale and drug abuse such as overdoses and to reduce, if not
eliminate, such activity from occurring in rave clubs;
      (2)   To protect juveniles and adults from violent criminal activity
occurring in rave clubs;
      (3)   To protect juveniles and adult victims from predatory-type sexual
crimes occurring in rave clubs;
      (4)   To protect juveniles and adults from gang-related activity
occurring in rave clubs;
      (5)   To reduce the amount of criminal activity occurring predominately
in the late night/early morning hours;
      (6)   To prevent the deleterious impacts of noise, traffic and debris on
adjacent residential and commercial property that occur in the late night/early
morning hours.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-31. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article, certain terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   ADULT RAVE CLUB . Any rave club whose patrons or admittees are 18 years of
age or older.
   CONVICTION OR CONVICTED . The finding of guilt for a violation of a
municipal or county ordinance or state or federal law, adjudication withheld on
such a finding of guilt, an adjudication of guilt on any plea of guilty or nolo
contendere, or the forfeiture of a bond or bail when charged with a violation
of a municipal or county ordinance or state or federal law.
   JUVENILE RAVE CLUB . Any rave club whose patrons or admittees are I7 years
of age or younger.
   KNOWINGLY . With actual knowledge of a specific fact or facts, or with
reasonable inquiry, a reasonable person should have known a specific fact or
facts.
   PERMIT OR RAVE CLUB PERMIT . A permit to operate a rave club.
   PERMITTEE . A person in whose name a permit to operate a rave club has been
issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on the application for
a rave club permit.
   PERSON . An individual, partnership, corporation, association or legal
entity.
   PREMISES . The building, the lot, parking areas, and any area under the
control of the operator of a rave club.
   RAVE CLUB .
   (a)   Any place, area or property which is operated either as an ongoing
enterprise or undertaking or as a one time event or a limited number of events,
which is open to the public, and which:
      (1)   Has music, either live or electronically produced or transmitted;
      (2)   Has space available for dancing, or dancing is permitted, whether
such dancing takes place or not;
      (3)   Allows free admission or admission by payment of a direct or
indirect charge, fee, donation, or any form of consideration, or by the
purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket, token, or membership card;
and
      (4)   Is not licensed or permitted to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption, or permit alcoholic beverages to be
consumed on premises.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "rave club," as defined herein, does
not include:
      (1)   An establishment with a license reviewed and approved by the state
to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption;
      (2)   A bona fide dance studio where students are taught the art of
dancing or ballet;
      (3)   A private residence or residential facility from which the general
public is excluded;
      (4)   A place owned and operated by the federal, state, or local
government;
      (5)   A public or private elementary school, secondary school, college,
or university;
      (6)   A place owned, leased or operated by a not-for-profit organization
and sponsored by a bona fide law enforcement organization or federal, state,
local government or school board;
      (7)   An adult dancing facility or adult entertainment facility, as
defined in Chapter 61, Town Code, lawfully established, existing, permitted and
licensed under the provisions thereof, during such hours of the day as said
establishment is being lawfully and principally operated as an adult use; or
      (8)   A place owned, leased or operated by a bona fide religious
organization, created, organized, existing and recognized as such pursuant to
all applicable law including federal tax laws and 26 U.S.C. Section 501(c)(3)
tax exempt religious organization.
   RAVE CLUB REGULATIONS . The regulations set forth in this Article.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-32. PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (a)   No person may operate a rave club without a permit.
   (b)   A notarized application for a permit shall be made on a form provided
by the Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee. The applicant must be
qualified according to the provisions of this Article.
   (c)   The applicant shall indicate whether the application is for a juvenile
rave club or adult rave club.
   (d)   A person who wishes to operate a rave club shall sign the application
for a permit as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a rave club is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as an applicant. Each
applicant must meet the requirements of §
73-33, and each applicant shall be considered a permittee if a permit is
granted.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-33. REQUIREMENT FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; POSTING.
   (a)   The Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee shall approve issuance
of a rave club permit within 60 days after receipt of an application unless the
Town Manager or said manager's designee finds one or more of the following to
be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant has failed to answer or falsely answered a question(s)
or request for information on the application provided;
      (3)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of any rave club
regulation within two years immediately preceding the application;
      (4)   An applicant has failed to obtain a certification from the Fire
Marshal that the rave club complies with all applicable provisions of Chapter
45, Town Code, relating to fire prevention, relative to places of assembly,
including, but not limited to, maximum permitted occupancy load and places of
assembly;
      (5)   An applicant has failed to obtain a certification from the Building
Official that the rave club complies with all applicable provisions of the Land
Development Code, Appendix A, including, but not limited to, parking and places
of assembly; or
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime:
         (A)   Involving:
            1.   Any felony; or
            2.   Any misdemeanor offense of Florida Statutes: Chapter 784,
assault, battery, culpable negligence; Chapter 787, kidnapping, false
imprisonment, luring or enticing a child, custody offenses; Chapter 790,
weapons and firearms; Chapter 794, sexual battery; Chapter 800, lewdness,
indecent exposure; Chapter 812, theft, robbery and related crimes; Chapter 827
abuse of children; Chapter 837, perjury; Chapter 856, drunkenness, open house
parties, loitering, prowling, desertion; Chapter 562, selling, serving or
giving alcoholic beverages to a minor; Chapter 859, poisons, adulterated drugs;
Chapter 870, affrays, riots, routs, unlawful assemblies; Chapter 874, street
terrorism enforcement and prevention; Chapter 877, miscellaneous crimes; and
Chapter 893, drug abuse prevention and control, as said chapters currently
exist or may be amended or superceded from time to time; or
            3.   Any violation of rave club regulations of any other town,
county, state or government; and
         (B)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of a felony involving any sexual
crime against a minor.
   (b)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed has no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant under division (a) above.
   (c)   An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed in division
(a)(6)a. may qualify for a rave club permit only when the time period required
by division (a)(6)b. has elapsed.
   (d)   The application shall be reviewed by the Police Department, the Fire
Department and the Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee for compliance
with the provisions of this section. Review shall be conducted by the Police
Department and the Fire Marshal/ Inspector within 30 days from the receipt of
the application by the Town Manager or designee, and their comments forwarded
to the Town Manager or designee for consideration in issuance of the permit in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
   (e)   The Town Manager or designee, upon approving the issuance of a rave
club permit, shall send to the applicant, by hand delivery or U.S. mail,
written notice of that action and state where the applicant must pay the permit
fee and obtain the permit. The Town Manager's approval of the issuance of the
permit does not authorize the applicant to operate a rave club until the
applicant has paid all fees required by this chapter and obtained possession of
the permit.
   (f)   The permit shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it
is granted, the expiration date, the address of the rave club, and whether it
is issued for a juvenile rave club or an adult rave club.
   (g)   The permit must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the rave club so that it may be easily read at anytime.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-34. APPLICATION AND RENEWAL FEES.
   The Town Commission may, by resolution, establish non-refundable fees for
the town to review the contents of a rave club permit application and for each
renewal permit issued under the terms of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-35. PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED IN ADULT RAVE CLUBS.
   (a)   No person under the age of 18 years may enter an adult rave club
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (b)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be either a
parent or guardian of another person under the age of 18 years for the purpose
of gaining the other person's admission into an adult rave club.
   (c)   No permittee or employee of an adult rave club shall knowingly allow a
person under the age of 18 years to enter or remain on the premises of an adult
rave club.
   (d)   No permittee of an adult rave club shall maintain or operate the
premises without posting a sign at each entrance to the business that reads:
"It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to enter this premises
without being accompanied at all times by said person's parent or guardian."
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-36. PERSONS AGE EIGHTEEN AND OVER PROHIBITED IN JUVENILE RAVE CLUBS.
   (a)   No person over 18 years of age may enter a juvenile rave club except:
      (1)   A permittee or employee of the rave club;
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a rave club patron inside the juvenile rave
club; or
      (3)   A governmental employee in the performance of official duties.
   (b)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be under 18
years of age for the purpose of gaining admission to a juvenile rave club.
   (c)   No permittee or employee of a juvenile rave club shall knowingly allow
a person 18 years of age or over to enter or remain on the premises of the
juvenile rave club.
   (d)   No permittee of a juvenile rave club shall maintain or operate the
premises without posting a conspicuous sign at the entrance to the business
that reads: "It is unlawful for any person over 18 years of age to enter this
premises."
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-37. HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a juvenile rave club during any hours other
than 4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday, and from 4:00 p.m. on Friday to 12:01 a.m. of the following day, and
from 1:00 p.m. Saturday to 12:01 a.m. of the following day. The establishment
shall close and all customers or members shall vacate the premises when it is
required to close until the time that the establishment may legally open for
operation.
   (b)   No person shall operate an adult rave club during any hours other than
1:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. of the following day. The establishment shall close and
all customers or members shall vacate the premises when it is required to close
until the time that the establishment may legally open for operation.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-38. SECURITY PARAMEDIC.
   (a)   Whenever a rave club is open to the general public, the rave club
permittee shall have on the premises, at the permittee's expense, the greater
of either: (i) three off-duty, sworn law enforcement officers, or three private
security officers having either a Class D or Class MS license as set forth in
Chapter 493, Florida Statutes; or (ii) one off-duty, sworn law enforcement
officer, or one private security officer having a license described above, per
150 of the persons allowed under the maximum occupancy load for the structure
in which the rave club is operated. The Police Chief may require a permittee to
increase the number of off-duty law enforcement officers or licensed private
security officers when a special event or limited engagement is scheduled to
take place at a permitted rave club. Nothing in the division shall be construed
to mean that the Police Chief must require law enforcement officers to serve in
an off-duty capacity at a permitted rave club.
   (b)   Whenever a rave club is open to the general public, at least one
certified and actively licensed paramedic, as set forth in Chapter 401, Florida
Statutes, shall be present, at the expense of the permittee.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-39. LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE; FIRE PREVENTION; OFFENSES.
   No person shall operate a rave club in violation of any applicable
provisions of the Land Development Code, Appendix A, or Chapter 45, Fire
Prevention, or Chapter 73, Offenses, as those provisions may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-40. RAVE CLUB OPERATOR.
   (a)   A person who operates a rave club shall designate a person as the rave
club supervisor and shall register that supervisor's name with the Town Manager
or the Town Manager's designee.
   (b)   The person designated as the rave club supervisor shall comply with
the requirements set forth in §
73-33(a)(6)a. and b. for applicants.
   (c)   The person designated rave club supervisor shall remain on the
premises of the rave club during all hours of operation and until 30 minutes
after closing to ensure that the operation is conducted in accordance with all
rave club regulations hereof.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-41. INSPECTION.
   (a)   Application for, and issuance of, any rave club permit shall
constitute consent by the permittee for representatives of the town to enter
and inspect the premises of the rave club at any time it is open for business
or occupied for the purpose of verifying compliance with the law.
   (b)   No person who operates a rave club, employee thereof, or a person
designated as the rave club supervisor, shall refuse to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises of a rave club by a representative of the town at
any time it is open for business or occupied.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-42. EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   (a)   A permit for a rave club expires one year from the date of issuance. A
permit may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
73-32. Application for renewal should be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the permit will not be affected by the pendency of the
application.
   (b)   If the Town Manager or designee denies renewal of a permit, the
applicant may not be issued any rave club permit for one year from the date
denial becomes final. If, subsequent to denial, the Town Manager or designee
finds that the basis for denial of the renewal permit has been corrected or
abated, the applicant may be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed
since the date denial becomes final.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-43. SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager or designee shall suspend a rave club permit for a period
of time not to exceed 30 days, if the Town Manager determines that a permittee,
or an employee of a permittee, has committed any one or more of the following
acts:
   (a)   Violated any provisions of the rave club regulations;
   (b)   Engaged in the use, sale, or consumpton of alcoholic beverages on the
rave club premises;
   (c)   Refused to allow an inspection of the rave club premises so authorized
in this Article;
   (d)   Knowingly permitted an intoxicated person to remain on the rave club
premises;
   (e)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the rave club premises;
   (f)   Knowingly permitted the possession, consumption or sale of an
alcoholic beverage on the premises of a rave club;
   (g)   Knowingly permitted the possession, consumption or sale of any illegal
drugs on the premises of the rave club; or
   (h)   Knowingly allowed performances or activity that violates Chapter 61,
which regulates adult entertainment.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-44. REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (a)   The Town Manager, or said manager's designee, shall revoke a permit,
if a cause of suspension under §
73-43 occurs, and the permit has been previously suspended within the preceding
12 months.
   (b)   The Town Manager, or said manager's designee, shall revoke a permit,
if the Town Manager determines that one or more of the following is true:
      (1)   A permittee has given false or misleading information in the
material submitted to the town during the application or renewal process;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed the possession,
use, or sale of controlled substances, or any derivative thereof, on the
premises.
      (3)   A permittee or an employee knowingly permitted dancing or a live
performance during a period of time when the rave club permit was suspended.
      (4)   A permittee has been:
         (A)   Convicted of an offense listed in §
73-33(a)(6)a. for which the time period required in §
73-33(a)(6)b. has not elapsed; or
         (B)   Convicted of or is under indictment for any felony offense while
holding a rave club permit.
      (5)   While an employee of the rave club, and while on the permitted
premises, a person has committed an offense listed in §
73-33(a)(6)a., for which a conviction has been obtained, two or more times
within a 12 month period.
   (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the permit.
   (d)   When the Town Manager or designee revokes a permit, the revocation
will continue for a period of 365 consecutive days, and the permittee may not
be issued any rave club permit for 365 days from the date revocation became
final. If, subsequent to revocation, the Town Manager or designee finds that
the basis for the revocation action has been corrected or abated, the applicant
may be granted a permit, if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became final. If the permit was revoked under subsection (b)(4)
hereof, an applicant may not be granted another permit until the appropriate
number of years required under §
73-33(a)(6)b. has elapsed.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-45. APPEALS.
   If the Town Manager or designee denies the issuance or renewal of a permit,
or suspends or revokes a permit, the Town Manager or the Town Manger's designee
shall send the applicant or permittee, by certified mail return receipt
requested, written notice of the action, the right to an appeal, how an appeal
maybe initiated, and the time within which the appeal must be initiated. The
aggrieved applicant or permittee may appeal the decision of the Town Manager to
the Town Commission in accordance with the following procedures. The filing of
an appeal stays the action of the Town Manager, or said manager's designee, in
suspending or revoking the permit until the Town Commission makes a final
decision on the appeal.
   (a)   The aggrieved party may, not later than ten calendar days after
receiving notice of the denial, file with the Town Clerk a written request for
a hearing before the Town Commission. Such request shall constitute a notice of
appeal.
   (b)   If a written request is filed under division (a) hereof with the Town
Clerk within the ten day limit, the Town Commission shall consider the request.
The Town Clerk shall set a date for the hearing within 30 days from the date
the written request is filed with the Clerk.
   (c)   The Town Commission shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person to determine whether the Town Manager, or said manager's
designee, properly denied issuance or renewal of the permit, or properly
suspended or revoked the permit in accordance with the provisions of this
Article. During such hearing, the formal rules of evidence shall not apply.
   (d)   By a proper vote, the Town Commission shall either affirm or reverse
the Town Manager's actions concerning the permit or application, in accordance
with the provisions of this Article. Any dispute of fact must be decided on the
basis of a preponderance of the evidence. The decision of the Town Commission
is final.
   (e)   If the Town Commission affirms the Town Manager's denial or suspension
or revocation, the aggrieved party may not reapply for a rave club permit until
at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the Town Commission's action.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-46. TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   A permittee shall not transfer a permit to another person, nor shall a
permittee operate a rave club under the authority of a permit at any place
other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
§ 73-47. PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (a)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a rave club without a
valid permit or in violation of any provision of this Article shall be subject
to the following penalties and/or remedies:
      (1)   Suspension or revocation of the rave club permit.
      (2)   Violations of this Article may be punished as provided in §
1-99 or pursuant to code enforcement proceedings pursuant to §
11-15 et seq.
      (3)   Each day that any violation continues after receipt of written
notice of such violation shall constitute a separate violation and a separate
offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified herein.
      (4)   In addition to the penalties and remedies above, the town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct
or abate a violation of this Article, as provided by law.
   (b)   In addition to the penalties described above, the town may institute
any appropriate action or proceeding to enjoin, prevent, restrain, correct, or
abate a violation of this Article. To the extent not inconsistent with Florida
law, a violation of this Article shall be subject to an injunction, temporary
and permanent, without the necessity of showing an irreparable harm. A
violation of this Article shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 4-17-02)
Penalty, see § 1-99
§§ 73-48. – 73-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. SEXUAL PREDATORS AND OFFENDERS.
§ 73-50. FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (a)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical violence,
sexual offenders who prey on children, and sexual predators are sexual
violators who present an extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual violators
are extremely likely to use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and
many sexual violators commit many offenses, have many more victims than are
ever reported, and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This
makes the cost of sexual violator victimization to society at large, while
incalculable, clearly exorbitant.
   (b)   The State of Florida has a strong statutory program to assist in
protecting the community against repeat offenses from sexual violators.
However, the Town Commission finds that greater tracking and monitoring of
potential repeat offenders is needed, and that greater protections for citizens
within the town than afforded by other laws or ordinances is needed. It is the
intent of this article to serve the town's compelling interest to promote,
protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the citizens and children
of the town.
   (c)   The high level of threat that a sexual violator presents to the public
safety, and the long-term effects suffered by victims of sex offenses, provide
the town with sufficient justification to implement a strategy that includes
enhanced monitoring of sexual violators residing in the town.
   (d)   It is the intent of the Town Commission in adopting Ordinance No.
2014-04 regulating sexual violator's residency that §§ 74-101 through 74-105,
Brevard County Code of Ordinances, shall continue in effect within the town;
provided, that when §§
73-50 through
73-54, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, and §§ 74-101 through 74-
105, Brevard County Code of Ordinances, conflict, §§
73-50 through
73-54, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, shall prevail and be in
effect. The town finds that the requirements of §§
73-50 through
73-54, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, are enacted for a valid
public purpose and that Brevard County residency restrictions do not provide
sufficient protection to citizens within the town.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 73-51. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK. A publicly owned or operated area used or available for the
public's use as a recreational facility and designated by the town as a "park"
in the town's comprehensive plan.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL. A public school, excluding charter schools, as defined in
Section 1000.04(1), Fla. Stat., excluding facilities used exclusively for the
education of adults.
   SEXUAL VIOLATOR. Any person who has been:
      (1)   Designated as a "sexual predator" pursuant to Section 775.21, Fla.
Stat., and was convicted of the crime leading to designation as a "sexual
predator"; or
      (2)   Is a "sexual offender", as that term is revised from time to time,
pursuant to the definitions as set forth in Sections 943.0435, 944.606, or
944.607, Fla. Stat., and was convicted of the crime, that classifies the
individual as a sexual offender pursuant to the foregoing statutes.
   TEMPORARY EMERGENCY SHELTER. A shelter designated by the town or any other
governmental entity to house persons in times prior to, during, or immediately
following the threat or occurrence of a disaster.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides for
a period of seven or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person's permanent address, or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive
or nonconsecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 73-52. SEXUAL VIOLATOR RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Prohibited location of residence. It is prohibited and therefore
unlawful for any individual who is a sexual violator, regardless of whether
adjudication has been withheld, when the victim of the offense for which the
conviction resulted was under 17 years of age at the time the offense was
committed, to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence located
within the town when such residence is located within 2,000 feet from any
public school, public park, or public library, regardless of whether the public
school, public park, or public library lies within the town limits of the town,
unincorporated Brevard County, or any adjacent municipality.
   (b)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to nearest outer property line of a public school, public park, or
public library.
   (c)   Identification.
      (1)   A sexual violator attending any school or transporting children
which violator has legal custody of such child or children to a public school
or day care center must declare his or her status as a sexual violator to the
public school or day care center principal or designee prior to entering the
public school or day care center property, and must also either schedule with
the principal a set time period to enter upon the property or immediately
notify the principal or designee upon entering public school grounds or day
care center property.
      (2)   All sexual violators registered in Brevard County shall carry their
state driver's license, or Florida state identification card, on their person
at all times.
   (d)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided in §
1-99, Town Code.
   (e)   Exceptions. A sexual violator residing within 2,000 feet of any public
school (prekindergarten through grade 12), public park, or public library, does
not commit a violation of this section if any of the following apply
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to Sections
775.21, 943.0435, or 944.607, Fla. Stat., prior to July 1, 2014;
      (2)   The person was a minor when he/she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor;
      (4)   The public school, public park, or public library located within
2,000 feet of the sexual violator's permanent residence or temporary residence
was opened after the person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to Sections
775.21, 943.0435 or 944.607, Fla. Stat.; or
      (5)   The sexual violator is utilizing a temporary emergency shelter as a
temporary residence immediately before, during, or following the threat or
existence of a public disaster, including but not limited to a hurricane or
other weather emergency.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
1-99
§ 73-53. PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO CERTAIN
SEXUAL VIOLATORS; PENALTIES.
   (a)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure, or part thereof,
trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing such permanent residence of temporary residence pursuant to §
73-52, if such place, structure, or part thereof, trailer or other conveyance,
is located within 2,000 feet of any public school, public library, or public
park.
   (b)   A property owner's failure to comply with provisions of this section
shall constitute a violation of this section, and shall subject the property
owner to the code enforcement provisions and procedures as otherwise provided
in this code or Chapter 162, Fla. Stat.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
1-99
§ 73-54. TEMPORARY EMERGENCY SHELTERS; SEXUAL PREDATORS, SEXUAL OFFENDERS, AND
SEXUAL VIOLATORS NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Any person who is required by Florida law to register as a "sexual
predator" or "sexual offender" pursuant to Sections 775.21, 943.0435, or
944.607, Fla. Stat., as revised from time to time, or is otherwise a sexual
violator, and who utilizes or intends to utilize a temporary emergency shelter
provided by shall, immediately upon entering the temporary emergency shelter,
notify the individual or individuals operating the temporary emergency shelter
that he or she is a registered "sexual predator," "sexual offender," or a
sexual violator pursuant to this code. The "sexual predator," "sexual
offender," or other sexual violator shall be assigned to a temporary emergency
shelter specifically designated for use by "sexual predators," "sexual
offenders" and sexual violators.
   (b)   The Town Manager in cooperation with the Chief of Police may designate
a public building or jail or other facility as a temporary emergency shelter to
be utilized by sexual violators.
   (c)   Failure of a sexual predator, sexual offender, other sexual violator
to make notification as required in sub-section (a) shall constitute a
violation of a municipal ordinance punishable as provided in §
1-99, Town Code, unless the temporary emergency shelter becomes the temporary
residence or permanent residence of the sexual violator.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
1-99
§§ 73-55. – 73-59. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. PARKS SAND BEACHES
§ 73-60. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BEACH or BEACHES. Those areas of unconsolidated material that extends
landward from the mean low water line to the place where there is a marked
change in material or physiographic form, or to the line of permanent
vegetation, usually the effective limit of storm waves.
   PUBLIC PARK. A publicly owned or operated area used or available for the
public's use as a recreational facility and designated by the town as a "park"
in the town's comprehensive plan.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, vaping, burning, carrying, or
possessing any lighted tobacco product, including cigarettes, vapor-generating
electronic devices, filtered cigars, pipe tobacco, and any other lighted
tobacco product whether natural or synthetic.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-19-24)
§ 73-61. SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke within the boundaries of
any public park or any public beach within the jurisdictional limits of the
town. Pursuant to Section 386.209, Florida Statutes, this provision shall not
apply to the smoking of unfiltered cigars.
   (b)   The Town Manager, or Town Manager's designee, shall conspicuously
post, or cause to be posted, signs stating that smoking of tobacco products,
with the exception of unfiltered cigars, is prohibited on the public beach or
public park.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-19-24)
§ 73-62. PENALTIES.
   (a)   The following penalties shall be imposed for violations of § 73-61:
      (1)   First offense shall be punishable by a $100.00 civil fine.
      (2)   Second or subsequent offense shall be punishable by a $200.00 civil
fine.
   (b)   A violation of this article may be enforced by citation by any law
enforcement officer or by any code enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2024-04, passed 6-19-24)
§§ 73-63. – 73-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 74: VACATION RENTALS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
74-1   Authority, scope, and purpose
   
74-2   Findings of facts
   
74-3   Definitions
   
74-4   Enforcement
   
74-5   Appeals
   
74-6   Construction of chapter
   74-7 – 74-14   Reserved
Article II. Vacation Rental Registration
   
74-15   Registration required
   
74-16   Vacation rental registration
   
74-17    Modification/change of ownership of vacation rental registration
   
74-18   Duration of vacation rental certification
   
74-19   Renewal of vacation rental certification
   
74-20   Inspection of vacation rentals
   
74-21   Sale of vacation rental property
   
74-22   Vested rights/waiver/estoppel
   
74-23   False information
   
74-24   Effective date for existing registered vacation rentals
   
74-25   Duties of vacation rental owner or responsible party
   74-26 – 74-34   Reserved
Article III. Standards and Requirements for Vacation Rentals
   
74-35   Generally
   
74-36   Minimum life/safety and operational requirements
   
74-37   Maximum occupancy based on site capacity/limitations/grandfatheri ng
   
74-38   Parking, solid waste disposal, legal compliance, evacuations,
miscellaneous provisions
   
74-39   Noise regulations; exceptions
   
74-40   Noise regulations; penalties
   
74-41   Required posting of local information in a vacation rental and in
agreement
   
74-42   Registration suspension
   74-43 – 74-49 Reserved
Article IV. Exemptions
   
74-50   Exemption for pre- existing rental agreements
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74-1. AUTHORITY, SCOPE, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted under the home rule authority and power of the
Town of Melbourne Beach in the interest of the health, peace, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the Town of Melbourne Beach.
   (B)   Section 509.013, Florida Statutes, provides a distinction between
"transient public lodging establishments," defined as dwelling units which are
rented, advertised or held out for rental to guests more than three times in a
calendar year for periods of less than 30 days or one calendar month, whichever
is less, and "nontransient public lodging establishments," defined as dwelling
units which are rented, advertised or held out for rental to guests for periods
of at least 30 days or one calendar month, whichever is less.
   (C)   Section 509.242(1)(c), Florida Statutes, further provides for a subset
of transient public lodging establishments, classified as "vacation rental"
which is any unit or group of units in a condominium or cooperative or any
individually or collectively owned single-family, two-family, three-family or
four-family house or dwelling unit that is also a transient public lodging
establishment but that is not a timeshare project.
   (D)   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate vacation rental transient
public lodging establishments as defined by Florida Statutes, which may permit
vacation rentals to operate pursuant to the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of
Ordinances, Appendix A, Land Development Code §§ 7A.31-36.
   (E)   In 2014, the Florida Legislature passed Senate Bill 356 (Chapter 2014-
71, Laws of Florida) amending Florida Statutes, § 509.032(7)(b) to read, "[a]
local law, ordinance, or regulation may not prohibit vacation rentals or
regulate the duration of frequency of rental of vacation rentals. This
paragraph does not apply to any local law, ordinance, or regulation adopted on
or before June 1,2011."
   (F)   This chapter does not prohibit vacation rentals, or the duration or
frequency of vacation rentals, nor is it the intention of the Town of Melbourne
Beach to do so, but rather, this chapter is intended to address life, safety,
and compatibility concerns in the interests of the health, peace, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens and visitors to the Town of Melbourne Beach.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-2. FINDINGS OF FACTS.
   Based on information presented to the Town Commission Members by residents
of Melbourne Beach and managers, owners, and operators of vacation rentals, the
practical first-hand experience and observations of Town Commission Members,
common sense deductions of Town Commission Members based on long-term
experiences in Melbourne Beach and familiarity with the character of the town's
residential zoning districts, information learned by Town of Melbourne Beach
staff, information from the U.S. Census as well as evidence and testimony
presented at public hearings before the Town Commission, and after
consideration of the Short- Term Rental Housing Restrictions White Paper,
prepared by Robinson & Cole, Attorneys at Law, in 2011, prepared for the
National Association of Realtors®, the Town Commission finds:
   (A)   Residents residing within their residential dwelling units are
inherently familiar with the local surroundings, local weather disturbances,
local hurricane evacuation plans, and means of egress from their residential
dwellings, thereby minimizing potential risks to themselves and their families.
   (B)   In contrast, transient occupants of vacation rentals, due to their
transient nature, are typically not familiar with local surroundings, local
weather disturbances, local hurricane evacuation plans, and means of egress
from the vacation rentals in which they are staying, thereby increasing
potential risks to themselves and their families, and putting an additional
burden on, and potentially putting at risk, emergency personnel in the event of
an emergency situation.
   (C)   Certain vacation rentals are presently operating within the the Town
of Melbourne Beach without registering with the Town are in violation of the
Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   Vacation rentals, left unregulated, can create negative impacts within
residential neighborhoods due to excessive noise, parking and traffic problems,
excessive use and impact on public services and public works, extreme size,
and/or greater occupancy.
   (E)   Vacation rentals situated within residential neighborhoods can disturb
the quiet nature and atmosphere of the residential neighborhoods and the quiet
enjoyment of residents of such neighborhoods.
   (F)   Vacation rentals located within established residential neighborhoods
can create negative compatibility impacts relating to extreme noise levels,
late night activities, on-street parking issues, and traffic congestion.
   (G)   A residential dwelling is typically the single largest investment a
family will make with the residents of the residential dwelling desiring the
tranquility and peaceful enjoyment of their neighborhood without excessive
noise and increased parking issues and traffic congestion caused by transient
occupants of vacation rentals.
   (H)   According to the U.S. Census, (2010), the Town of Melbourne Beach has
an average household size of 2.30 persons.
   (I)   According to the U.S. Census, (2010), the Town of Melbourne Beach has
an average household size of owner-occupied units of 2.36 persons.
   (J)   According to the U.S. Census, (2010) the Town of Melbourne Beach has
an average household size of renter-occupied units of 2.02 persons.
   (K)   Vacation rentals situated in the Town of Melbourne Beach can and do
create a great disparity in occupancy.
   (L)   The town finds that such rentals increase the demands upon code
enforcement, police, fire, and emergency services beyond those created by non-
vacation rental residential dwelling units.
   (M)   Vacation rental use and longer-term residential use and ownership can
be generally incompatible, due to rapid turnover associated with short-term
vacation residential use and its potentially disruptive effect on the peaceful
use and enjoyment of residential areas.
   (N)   The primary reasonable investment-backed expectation of owners of
residential dwelling units in the town is that adjacent and surrounding
residential dwelling units will be used as family occupied residential units
and not vacation rentals.
   (O)   Vacation rentals are a use that is more similar to the character of
the use of hotels, motels, and timeshares than to that of family-occupied
residential units.
   (P)   The regulation of vacation rentals will contribute to the stability of
existing residential neighborhoods.
   (Q)   The regulation of vacation rentals will protect visitors to the town
by assuring that fire and safety inspections are periodically conducted, that
they receive necessary information about the dwelling which they have rented,
and notifying them of the owner of the dwelling's obligation to provide for
their safety and welfare.
   (R)   The regulation of vacation rentals is necessary in order to protect
the public health, safety and welfare of the town, its residents and its
visitors.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-3. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEDROOM. Any room in a vacation rental which has a bed or other place for
sleeping and a separate closet that is an integral part of the permanent
construction within the bedroom or an ensuite bathroom, and complies with the
Florida Fire Code and Florida Life Safety Code as a bedroom, but shall not
include a bathroom, a kitchen, a dining room, or any main living area. If a
room has been added, altered, or converted without any reguired building permit
having been granted, such room shall not be deemed a bedroom. If a previously
approved bedroom exists as of the effective date of this chapter and does not
have a separate closet that is an integral part of the permanent construction
of the structure, but rather utilizes an armoire or other furniture piece for
clothing storage, the requirement for a closet to qualify as a bedroom is
waived.
   DWELLING UNIT or LIVING UNIT. One or more rooms with private bath and
kitchen facilities comprising an independent self-contained dwelling unit.
   FAMILY. Shall be defined as provided in §
1A-3, Appendix A, Land Development Code.
   LIVING AREA. The minimum floor area of a residential dwelling as measured by
its outside dimensions exclusive of carports, porches, sheds and attached
garages. As used in this chapter, the total living area shall be computed as
follows: the exterior dimensions of all enclosed spaces within the framework of
the dwelling unit (length and width) multiplied and totaled, as follows:
      (1)   Any room or area accessible from any other room or area within the
framework shall constitute living area.
      (2)   A room or area must be totally enclosed by walls and covered by
roofing.
      (3)   A room or area must be protected from the elements.
      (4)   A utility room within the framework of the residential dwelling and
accessible within the main living area constitutes living area.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies a vacation rental overnight.
   PEER-TO-PEER PLATFORM/ENTITY. Any person, service, business, company,
marketplace, or other entity that, for a fee or other consideration, provides
property owners and responsible parties a platform or means to offer vacation
rentals to transient occupant whether through the internet or other means.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner, or the person designated by the owner of a
vacation rental to be called upon to answer for the maintenance of the vacation
rental and the conduct and acts of the occupants of the vacation rental.
   TOWN CODE. The Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances and Land
Development Code, Appendix "A" to the Code of Ordinances, including, but not
limited to, the Zoning Code of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida, the
Comprehensive Plan, the Future Land Use Map, and any items incorporated by
reference.
   TRANSIENT PUBLIC LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS. Any unit, group of units, dwelling,
building, or group of buildings within a single complex of buildings which is
rented to quests more than three times in a calendar year for periods of less
than 30 days or one calendar month, whichever is less, or which is advertised
or held out to the public as a place regularly rented to guests.
   VACATION RENTAL. Collectively a vacation rental as defined under Florida
Statutes, and any transient public lodging establishment, which is operated in
a dwelling unit or living unit as defined under §
1A-3, Appendix A, Land Development Code in the Town of Melbourne Beach.
   VACATION RENTAL OWNER. The fee simple owner of the Vacation rental property,
whether an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability  company,
trust, or other entity. In the event the vacation rental owner is not an
individual, the vacation rental owner shall designate a responsible natural
person to perform the functions and duties of a vacation rental owner as
provided in this chapter. The duties and functions of a vacation rental owner
may, at the option of the vacation rental owner, be performed by an agent of
the vacation rental owner, so long as the vacation rental owner notifies the
town in writing, on a form provided by the town, of the identity and contact
information of such agent, and the specific duties that the agent will be
performing for the vacation rental owner. The vacation rental owner may change
the designation of agent at any time through the filing of a new form and the
payment of an administrative fee in an amount as set by the Town Commission.
The vacation rental owner shall be held responsible for all actions of such
designated agent with respect to the applicable vacation rental.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-4. ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this chapter shall be enforced as code violations in
accordance with the provisions of Florida Statutes, Chapter 162, and §§
11-15 through
11-22 of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-5. APPEALS.
   Any decision of the Town Manager or his or her authorized designee relating
to implementation of this chapter shall be rendered in writing in appealable
form, and reviewed by the Town Attorney if a notice by the vacation rental
owner or agent is filed with the Town Clerk within ten days after the action to
be reviewed. The Town Clerk or designee shall place the matter on the agenda of
the next available meeting of the Town Commission, but no later than 35 days
after the notice by the vacation rental owner or agent is filed, at which the
matter will be reviewed. The decision of the Town Commission shall be final and
shall be rendered in writing in appealable form. Such final decision may be
reviewed as permitted under Florida law.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-6. CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose of
regulating vacation rentals, protecting the residential character of the Town
of Melbourne Beach, the health, safety, and general welfare of its residents
and visitors, and the quiet enjoyment by Melbourne Beach residents of their
residential property located within the Town of Melbourne Beach.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§§ 74-7. – 74-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. VACATION RENTAL REGISTRATION
§ 74-15. REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   A vacation rental registration shall be required to operate a vacation
rental within the Town of Melbourne Beach, utilizing forms promulgated by the
town, electronically or in hard copy. Prior to the issuance of a vacation
rental certificate, the responsible party has the affirmative duty to ensure
that the residential dwelling unit and property in or on which the vacation
rental is or will be located, is in full compliance with the appropriate
portions of Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, the Florida Building
Code, the Florida Administrative Code, and the Florida Fire Prevention Codes. A
separate vacation rental registration shall be required for each separate
residential dwelling unit constituting a vacation rental.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-16. VACATION RENTAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A vacation rental owner, agent, or responsible party, as applicable,
registering a vacation rental with the town shall submit to the town a
completed registration form, utilizing a form promulgated by the town, together
with all applicable registration and inspection fees in the amount set by
resolution of the Town Commission.
   (B)   A registration application shall include the following:
      (1)   Full address of the vacation rental property being registered,
along with proof of ownership;
      (2)   Name, physical address, phone number, and e-mail, of the vacation
rental owner;
      (3)   Name, physical address, e-mail, and emergency contact phone number
of responsible party for the vacation rental, which shall be a 24-hour, seven
days a week contact number;
      (4)   The vacation rental's current and active license number as a
transient public lodging establishment issued by the Florida Department of
Business and Professional Regulation (DBPR), if the registrant has such
license;
      (5)   A copy of the vacation rental's current and active certificate of
registration with the Florida Department of Revenue and Brevard County for
sales and tourist development tax collection, respectively, if the registrant
has such certificates or accounts; unless a peer-to-peer platform entity
through which the vacation rental is booked will be remitting all such taxes
associated with the vacation rental on the responsible party's behalf;
      (6)   Business tax receipt from the Town of Melbourne Beach, if
applicable, in accordance with
Chapter 65, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances;
      (7)   Statement attesting to the number of bedrooms and paved off-street
parking spaces available on the property demonstrating compliance with §
7A-50, Land Development Code regarding off-street parking and affirming that,
"parking serving the vacation rental shall be in compliance with all town
parking requirements;"
      (8)   Exterior site sketch. An exterior sketch of the vacation rental
facility shall be provided. The sketch shall show and identify all structures,
pools, spas, hot tubs, fencing, and uses, including areas provided for off-
street parking. For purposes of the sketch, off-street parking spaces shall be
delineated so as to enable a fixed count of the number of spaces provided. At
the option of the vacation rental owner, such sketch may be hand drawn and need
not be professionally prepared, but must be scaled, must show dimensions, and
must show scale;
      (9)   Interior building sketch by floor. A building sketch by floor shall
be provided, showing a floor layout identifying all bedrooms, other rooms,
exits, hallways, stairways, and safety equipment as applicable. At The option
of the vacation rental owner, such sketch may be hand drawn, and need not be
professionally prepared, but must be scaled, must show dimensions, and must
show scale;
      (10)   Acknowledgment signed by the vacation rental owner, agent, or
designated responsible party, understanding and agreeing to initial and ongoing
compliance with this chapter and all other applicable local, state, and federal
laws, regulations, and standards; and
      (11)   The street address shall be posted in conspicuous and prominent
locations throughout the property including the pool area, the kitchen, and the
bathroom(s).
   (C)   If a registration form is incomplete, the registrant will be notified
of the deficiency, and be allowed 15 days to provide any missing information.
   (D)   The operation of a vacation rental without registration after the date
registration is required shall be a violation of this chapter and is considered
irreparable. The advertising or advertisement of an unregistered vacation
rental is direct evidence of offering a property for rent as a vacation rental
in violation of Section 74-15 and the advertising or advertisement is
admissible in any enforcement proceeding. The advertising or advertisement
evidence raises a rebuttable presumption that the residential property named in
the notice of violation or any other report or as identified in the advertising
or advertisement was used in violation of Section
74-15. Every day of such operation, advertising, or advertisement without
registration or a vacation rental certification shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (E)   Any vacation rental being advertised or promoted shall include the
approved registration number issued by the town. The advertisement or promotion
of a vacation rental without the approved registration number issued by the
town shall constitute prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-17. MODIFICATION/CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OF VACATION RENTAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An amendment of a vacation rental registration application and
affidavit of compliance shall be required, with payment of the appropriate fee
set by resolution, in the event that any of the following changes to the
vacation rental are proposed:
      (1)   An increase in the number of bedrooms in the vacation rental.
      (2)   An increase or decrease in the number of parking spaces or a change
in the location of parking spaces for the vacation rental.
      (3)   A change in the designated responsible party,
   (B)   A change of ownership shall require a new application and all required
documents including appropriate fees set by resolution.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-18. DURATION OF VACATION RENTAL CERTIFICATION.
   A vacation rental certification shall be valid for one year after the date
of registration.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-19. RENEWAL OF VACATION RENTAL CERTIFICATION.
   A vacation rental owner must renew its certification annually prior to the
expiration date of the previous vacation rental certification. At the time of
said renewal, the vacation rental shall be subject to an annual inspection and
applicable renewal fees shall apply.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-20. INSPECTION OF VACATION RENTALS.
   (A)   Inspection of a vacation rental to verify compliance with the Florida
Building Code and the Florida Fire and Life Safety Codes, which governed at the
time of completion of the construction of the subject residential dwelling
unit, shall be required subsequent to the initial certification of the vacation
rental and annually after each renewal. If instances of noncompliance are
found, all such instances of noncompliance shall be handled as other violations
of the Florida Building Code and Florida Fire and Life Safety Codes are
otherwise handled in the town. Enforcement of violations of the Florida
Building Code and Florida Fire and Life Safety Codes by the town shall not
affect rental contracts that preexist the effective date of this chapter unless
such violations present a heightened threat the public, health, safety, and
welfare of the occupants of a vacation rental. This inspection fee shall be set
by Resolution of the Town Commission.
   (B)   Annual inspections to verify compliance with the Florida Building Code
and the Florida Fire and Life Safety Codes, and the posting of notice
requirements required herein shall be made by the town or designated contractor
through appointment with the vacation rental owner, agent, or responsible
party, as applicable. The annual inspection fee shall beset by Resolution of
the Town Commission. If a Town Inspector or designated contractor has made an
appointment with vacation rental owner or agent, as applicable, for an
inspection, and the Town Inspector or designated contractor is unable to
complete the inspection as a result of an action or inaction of the vacation
rental owner, agent, responsible party, or an occupant of the vacation rental,
the vacation rental owner shall be charged a "re-inspection" fee in an amount
set by resolution of the Town Commission to cover the inspection expense
incurred. The re-inspection fee shall be paid prior to scheduling the re-
inspection. In addition, failure of a vacation rental owner agent, or
responsible party, as applicable, to make the vacation rental available for an
inspection within 20 days after notification by the town in writing that the
town is ready to conduct an annual inspection, shall be a violation of this
chapter punishable by a fine as set by resolution by the Town Commission. Such
violation shall continue until the inspection is accomplished. Each day that
such violation continues shall be a separate violation. Such violation may be
enforced in accordance with §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-21. SALE OF VACATION RENTAL PROPERTY.
   When the ownership of the vacation rental is sold or otherwise transferred,
the new owner shall file a new registration with the town within 30 days from
the date of the sale or transfer. Failing such application for registration,
any Certificate of Compliance as to that Vacation Rental Property shall be null
and void on the thirty-first day after such sale or transfer.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-22. VESTED RIGHTS/WAIVER/ESTOPPEL.
   A vacation rental certificate shall not be construed to establish any vested
rights or entitle the registered vacation rental to any rights under the theory
of estoppel. A vacation rental certificate shall not be construed as a waiver
of any other requirements contained within the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of
Ordinances and is not an approval of any other Town Code requirement outside
this chapter. The registration of a vacation rental is not an approval of a use
or activity that would otherwise be illegal under Florida law, the Florida
Building Code, the Florida Fire Code or Life Safety Code, the Town of Melbourne
Beach Zoning Map, or in violation of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-23. FALSE INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give any false or misleading
information in connection with any application for registration, modification,
or renewal of a vacation rental as required by this chapter. Vacation rental
applications shall be sworn to under penalty of perjury. Any false statements
made in an application shall be a basis for the revocation of any license
issued pursuant to such application. In addition, such violations shall be
enforced as provided in §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-24. EFFECTIVE DATE FOR EXISTING REGISTERED VACATION RENTALS.
   The provisions of §
74-15 through §
74-23 will not become effective for existing registered vacation rental
properties that have a current and valid approved vacation rental certificate
until March 1, 2025.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-25. DUTIES OF VACATION RENTAL OWNER OR RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   (A)   Every vacation rental owner or responsible party, as applicable, shall
be available by phone at the listed phone number 24-hours a day, seven days a
week to respond to police, fire, or other emergency personnel requests.
Otherwise, response to attempted contact by the town's vacation rental
regulatory personnel shall be required only Monday through Friday, except
holidays, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Failure of the vacation rental owner or
responsible party, as applicable, to fulfill this duty, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter which shall be punished by fine in accordance with §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Responsible party. All vacation rental units, if not managed by the
vacation rental owner, shall have a designated responsible party.
      (1)   The responsible party shall be available 24 hours per day, seven
days a week, for the purpose of promptly responding to complaints regarding
conduct or behavior of vacation rental occupants or alleged violations of these
regulations. The responsible party must have authority to immediately address
and take affirmative action, within one hour of notice from the town, on
violations concerning life-safety, noise, and parking violations. A record
shall be kept by the town of the complaint and the responsible party's
response, as applicable.
      (2)   A vacation rental owner may change his or her designation of a
responsible party temporarily, up to 30 cumulative days during any consecutive
12-month period, or permanently; however, there shall only be one designated
responsible party for each vacation rental property at any given time. To
change the designated agent or responsible party, the vacation rental owner
shall notify the town in writing including all information required by §
74-16(B)(3) Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, along with a signed
affidavit from the new responsible party acknowledging and agreeing to serve in
this capacity and perform the duties of this chapter. Any notice of violation
or legal process which has been delivered or served upon the previous
responsible party, prior to the town's receipt of notice of change of the
responsible party, shall be deemed effective service.
      (3)   It shall be the sole responsibility of the vacation rental owner to
appoint a reliable responsible party and to inform the town of his or her
correct mailing address, telephone number, and email address. Failure to do so
shall not be a defense to a violation of this section. Service of notice on the
responsible party shall be deemed service of notice on the vacation rental
owner, occupant, or violator.
   (C)   (1)   A vacation rental owner or responsible party is responsible for
ensuring sexual offenders/predators as defined in Florida Statutes § 775.21, §
943.0435, § 944.607, or § 985.4815 register at the Brevard County Sheriff's
office and the Town of Melbourne Beach Police Department following the process
set forth in § 775.21, 48 hours prior to arrival at a vacation rental,
regardless of the length of stay.
      (2)   A vacation rental owner and/or responsible party shall comply with
Florida Law, § 775.215, as amended from time to time, and Section 73-53 of the
Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances pertaining to the distance
separation of homes with a sexual offender/predator residing within the
vacation rental and any business, school, child care facility, park,
playground, or other places where children regularly congregate.
      (3)   Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall result in the revocation of the business tax receipt, if
applicable, and vacation rental registration for the vacation rental and other
enforcement provisions outlined in §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   The vacation rental owner or responsible party shall inquire prior to
check-in if any guest of at the vacation rental is a sexual offender/predator
as defined in § 775.21, § 943.0435, § 944.607, or § 985.4815. If any guest of a
Vacation Rental is a sexual offender/predator as defined in § 775.21, §
943.0435, § 944.607, or § 985.4815, the operator shall immediately notify the
Melbourne Beach Police Department. A vacation rental owner and/or responsible
party shall obtain a sexual predator background check for each vacation rental
occupant who is 18 years of age or older at least 48 hours prior to check-in, a
copy of the photo identification of each vacation rental occupant who is 18
years of age or older prior to check-in, and shall maintain those records for a
period of six months from the date of check-in and make sure records available
to the town upon request.
   (E)   The owner or responsible party shall provide the town, and post in a
conspicuous place in the living area of the vacation rental, the name, address,
and day/evening telephone numbers of the responsible party who shall be
available 24 hours per day, seven days a week for the purpose of promptly
responding to complaints regarding conduct or behavior of vacation rental
occupants or alleged violations of these regulations. Any change in the
responsible party shall require written notification to the town on forms
provided by the town and in a manner promulgated by the town upon payment of
the applicable fees.
   (F)   complaints made to the responsible party concerning violations of this
chapter by occupants of vacation rental shall be responded to within a
reasonable time but in no instance greater than three hours. A record of the
complaint and of the responsible party's response shall be maintained in the
file for the registration of the vacation rental and shall be available for
inspection of the public during business hours of the town in accordance with
Florida's public record law.
   (G)   It shall be the sole responsibility of the vacation rental owner to
appoint a reliable responsible party and to inform the responsible party of his
or her correct contact information. Failure to do so shall not be a defense to
the town's claim of delivery of notice of a violation of this chapter to the
responsible party. No vacation rental owner shall designate as a responsible
party any person who does not expressly comply with the provisions of this
section. The vacation rental owner or the responsible party shall be deemed to
be the "violator" of this chapter as the term is used in Florida Statutes §
162.06. Service of notice on the responsible party shall be deemed service of
notice on the vacation rental owner, occupant, or violator.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§§ 74-26. – 74-34. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR VACATION RENTALS
§ 74-35. GENERALLY.
   The standards and requirements set forth in this Article shall apply to the
rental, use, and occupancy of vacation rentals in the Town of Melbourne Beach.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20)
§ 74-36. MINIMUM LIFE/SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Vacation rentals in the Town of Melbourne Beach shall meet all applicable
standards under the Florida Statutes, the Florida Building Code, the Florida
Administrative Code, the Florida Swimming Pool Safety Act, and the Florida Fire
Code and Life Safety Code. Each vacation rental shall also have the following:
   (A)   A swimming pool, spa, or hot tub shall comply with the current
standards of Florida Statutes, Chapter 515, Residential Swimming Pool Safety
Act.
   (B)   Smoke and carbon monoxide (CO) detection and notification system.
There shall be a smoke and carbon monoxide detection system, installed and
maintained in compliance with the requirements of Florida Building Code
Residential, Sections R314 Smoke Alarms R315 Carbon Monoxide Alarms. Smoke and
carbon monoxide detection systems shall have both audio and visual warning
function capabilities.
   (C)   Fire extinguisher. On each floor and area where there is an outdoor
fire feature, there shall be available a portable, multi-purpose dry chemical
2A:10B:C fire extinguisher, which shall be installed and maintained in
compliance with NFPA 10.
   (D)   Battery powered emergency lighting. Battery powered emergency
lighting, which illuminates automatically for at least one hour when
electricity is interrupted, is reguired at each building exit.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-37. MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY BASED ON SITE CAPACITY/LIMITATIONS/GRANDFATHERING.
   (A)   The maximum occupancy of a vacation rental shall be stated in the
vacation rental registration form and shall be limited to the lesser of:
      (1)   Two occupants per bedroom.
      (2)   A total of ten occupants per vacation rental.
   (B)   The maximum occupancy restriction as set forth above shall not apply
when the property serves as the primary residence of, and is occupied by, the
vacation rental owner and the property is not rented while occupied by the
vacation rental owner.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the above, residential dwelling unit that is being
used as a vacation rental on of the effective date of this chapter, may apply
for grandfathered status, which, if granted, allows operation of the
grandfathered vacation rental at a capped occupancy rate higher than ten
occupants for a period not to exceed one year. Vacation rentals that have an
occupancy of ten occupants or less do not require grandfathering to maintain
that occupancy.
      (1)   A grandfathered vacation rental shall have its maximum occupancy
based upon two persons per bedroom and two additional persons per one common
living area being utilized for the occupants of the vacation rental at the time
of application for grandfathered status. A change in the number of bedrooms at
the vacation rental shall cause such vacation rental to lose its grandfathered
status.
      (2)   The vacation rental owner, agent, or responsible party, as
applicable, ("grandfathering applicant"), shall complete a grandfathering
application as prescribed by the town, which shall be submitted under oath and
upon penalty of perjury and shall provide verifiable written proof of the
number of bedrooms and living areas as herein defined in the vacation rental.
      (3)   The grandfathering application and supporting proof shall be
submitted to the town for review by town staff which shall make a written
determination as to the maximum occupancy of the grandfathered vacation rental.
      (4)   If the town staff denies the requested occupancy level, the Town of
Melbourne Beach shall notify the grandfathering applicant of the denial and
shall provide the maximum approved occupancy level for the vacation rental in
writing. Within 20 days after the service of the written notice, the
grandfathering applicant may appeal the denial of the grandfathering
application to the Town Commission by filing a written appeal with the Town
Clerk. At the hearing on said appeal, the grandfathering applicant may present
evidence supporting the requested occupancy. A final determination of occupancy
by the Town Commission after the hearing of said appeal shall be final. Such
final determination may be reviewed as permitted under Florida law. If no
written appeal is filed within the 20-day period stated herein, the occupancy
determined by the town staff shall be final.
      (5)   An application for grandfathered status shall be submitted, no
later than the time of initial registration of the vacation rental, along with
fees established by the Town Commission by resolution. If the Town Manager
extends the date that registration is required, the deadline for the submission
of grandfathering applications shall also be extended to the same extended
date. If a vacation rental has been registered, but a final determination as to
the occupancy level based upon grandfathering has not yet been made, such
vacation rental may allow occupancy up to the occupancy requested in the
grandfathering application until such time as a final determination as to
occupancy has been made.
      (6)   If it is reasonably determined by the town staff that any
information supplied to the Town of Melbourne Beach in support of a
grandfathering application was intentionally false or fraudulent, such action
shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter and may be enforced in
accordance with §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   All marketing and/or advertising for vacation rentals must contain
information concerning the occupancy limit of the vacation rental. Advertising
for more than the allowable occupancy or failure to include such occupancy
limits is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-38. PARKING, SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL, LEGAL COMPLIANCE, EVACUATIONS,
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All vehicles associated with the vacation rental, including visitors
not residing at the vacation rental, must be parked in compliance with §§
30-41 through
30-48 of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances. All vehicles utilized
by the occupants of the vacation rental must be parked within a driveway
located on the subject property. There shall be no sidewalk, on street, right-
of-way, or grass parking. The maximum collective number of automobiles, trucks,
boats, motorcycles, and trailers shall be limited to a total of four at any
vacation rental. Violations of this section may be punished through town
parking citations in accordance with §
30-44 of this code of ordinances, and vehicles parked in violation of the
approved parking plan or which otherwise interfere with convenient vehicle
access to and through the neighborhood are subject to being towed at the
vehicle owner’s expense.
   (B)   Parking of trailers, boats, and recreational vehicles at vacation
rentals shall be in accordance with §
7A-57, Appendix "A," Land Development Code.
   (C)   Solid waste disposal (household garbage, recycling, and yard trash) at
vacation rentals shall be in compliance with the solid waste franchise
agreement adopted by the town.
   (D)   Vacation rental occupants are required to comply with all local,
state, and federal laws at all times, including those related to illegal
activities, local nuisance ordinances, and emergency management.
   (E)   Vacation rental occupants are required to participate in all mandatory
evacuations due to hurricanes, tropical storms, or other threats to resident
safety, as required by state and local laws,
   (F)   A vacation rental shall not be eligible for a special event permit
under
Chapter 52, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (G)   No temporary storage containers may be stored on the vacation rental
premises. The term "temporary storage container" shall mean any container,
structure, box, cylinder, or crate made of any material not permanently affixed
to real property, that is enclosed or capable of being enclosed on all sides,
top and bottom, that is stored, placed, located or put on any real property
within the town for the purpose of storing personal property, construction
material, trash, refuse, garbage, debris, or other material or matter.
Provided, however, with prior authorization from the Building Department a
temporary storage container may be authorized during valid construction permit
activity for this location.
   (H)   Except for dwelling and living unit structures that constitute
nonconforming structures pursuant to §
7A-83, Appendix A, Land Development Code, no accessory structure, vehicle,
recreational vehicle, trailer, camper, or similar apparatus shall be utilized,
rented, or registered as a Vacation Rental,
   (I)   All marketing and/or advertising for vacation rentals must contain the
maximum parking available on the property. Advertising for more than the
allowable parking or failure to include such parking limits is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-39. NOISE REGULATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No occupant or visitor of a vacation rental at any time shall create, or
cause to be created any noise or sound which is clearly audible within any
other residence when the residence in which the noise or sound is clearly
audible has its windows and doors closed. This shall not include cries for
emergency assistance or warning calls, properly functioning HVAC systems, pool
pumps. lawn mowers, leaf blowers, or fire alarms or burglar alarms prior to the
giving of notice and a reasonable opportunity for the owner or tenant in
possession of the vacation rental served by any such alarm to tum off the
alarm. The provisions of this section are in addition to other noise
regulations generally applicable in the Town.
(Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-40. NOISE REGULATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Noise violations may be enforced utilizing any legal means, including,
but not limited to, citations issued by code officers, police officers, or any
other person designated by the Town Manager, actions before the special
magistrate, or injunctive relief. Citations issued to renters shall be in
amounts as set by resolution of the Town Commission.
   (B)   If there are three noise violations with citations (whether such
violations are paid. or if they are challenged and the special magistrate
upholds such citation), issued over a rolling period of 12 months, the special
magistrate, at the request of the Town, may deem the property a "noise nuisance
property" to be effective for a period of 12 months from the later of the
special magistrate order deeming the property a "noise nuisance property" or
any citation for a noise violation as to such property, and may impose one or
more of the following orders:
      (1)   Require that whenever in the 12 months following the special
magistrate order there is a change of occupancy of the property (i.e., new
people staying in and/or renting the noise nuisance property) the property
owner or responsible party must provide proof to the town that the property
owner or responsible party has visited the property during the first day of the
stay of the new tenants and delivered a copy of the Town's noise ordinances to
the new occupants of the property and explained the seriousness of the
violations of such ordinances and the fines and penalties which are applicable.
Failure to provide said notice shall constitute operating without registration
and/or certification and the vacation rental owner shall be subject to the
applicable fine for operating without a registration and/or certification.
      (2)   Require that the owner of the noise nuisance property shall be
required to impose for all future rentals of the noise nuisance property over
the next 12 months, an additional deposit in an amount no less than $500, with
the condition of the deposit being that it will be forfeited to the Town if the
renter or any occupant of the noise nuisance property receives a noise
violation during the term of the rental agreement. All such renters and
occupants shall be warned, by the property owner or responsible party, of such
additional deposit and what would cause the forfeiture of such deposit prior to
execution of the rental agreement. A prominent notice of the conditions of such
deposit and the potential forfeiture of such deposit shall be posted in each
and every noise nuisance property. Failure to require the additional deposit
shall constitute a violation of Town regulations and the property owner shall
be subject to a penalty in the amount charged for operating without
registration and/or certification. Proof of the additional deposit must be
provided to the Town by the property owner or responsible party for each and
every rental of the property as long as the property is designated a noise
nuisance property.
(Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§ 74-41. REQUIRED POSTING OF LOCAL INFORMATION IN A VACATION RENTAL AND IN
AGREEMENT.
   (A)   In each vacation rental, there shall be posted, in a prominent
location on the inside of the vacation rental, the following written
information:
      (1)   The official street address of the vacation rental.
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the vacation rental owner or
responsible party as applicable.
      (3)   The maximum occupancy of the vacation rental.
      (4)   A copy of a document to be supplied by the town which includes
excerpts from Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances of general application
relevant to vacation rentals, including, but not limited to, solid waste and
recycling pick-upregulations and days/times, regulations related to sea turtles
and sea turtle lighting, parking, and noise regulations. Said document shall
also be included as an addendum to each vacation rental agreement. The town
will make available to vacation rental owners and agents a copy of such
document in digital format upon request and the town will post such document on
its website.
      (5)   The maximum number of vehicles that will be allowed to park at the
vacation rental, along with a sketch of the location of the paved off-street
parking and a notice that visitors to the vacation rental, must comply with §§
30-41 through
30-48, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   Phone number and address of Holmes Regional Medical Center
Melbourne and Health First Viera Hospital and directions from the vacation
rental to the hospital.
      (7)   Emergency and nonemergency phone numbers for Melbourne Beach Police
and Fire Departments.
      (8)   Emergency evacuation instructions.
      (9)   Rip currents are prevalent in the Atlantic Ocean here in Brevard
County. Information from the National Weather Service, available via from http:
//weather.gov/mlb shall be provided to occupants on the dangers of rip currents
that occur in the Atlantic Ocean shall be prominently displayed.
      (10)   Notice of the need for respect for the peace and quiet of
neighborhood residents in compliance with Chapter 48, Town of Melbourne Beach
Code of Ordinances. A statement shall specifically provide that occupants shall
be prohibited from making excessive or boisterous noise in or about any
residential dwelling unit at all times.
      (11)   In addition, there shall be posted, next to the interior door of
each bedroom, and the exterior doors exiting the vacation rental a legible copy
of a building evacuation map - minimum eight and one-half inches by 11 inches.
      (12)   A vacation rental agreement must include a list of occupant names
and a record of the license plate numbers of vehicles used by occupants during
any rental term or such information shall be provided in writing to the
vacation rental owner prior to, or at the time of, the commencement of the
rental term. This information shall be maintained by a vacation rental owner
for no less than six months from the commencement of the rental term.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19- 25)
§ 74-42. REGISTRATION SUSPENSION.
   The code enforcement magistrate or court may. in addition to assessing code
enforcement fines and orders requiring compliance, as provided for in
Chapter 11, Article II of the Town’s Code of Ordinances and state law, as may
be amended. may order that the vacation rental owner's registration, and
accompanying authorization to operate, may be suspended for the following
reasons and for up to the corresponding suspension periods:
   (A)   Knowingly submitting false information in support of a registration
application as prohibited by Section
74-23 for a period of up to one year.
   (B)   Three orders finding a violation of any provision of this article
within a six-month period. where the orders finding violation have become final
through any timely appeal, for a period of up to six months.
   (C)   Allowing a vacation rental to be rented by, and actually used by
occupants, during a period of suspension, for a period of up to one year.
(Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
§§ 74-43. – 74-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. EXEMPTIONS
§ 74-50. EXEMPTION FOR PRE- EXISTING RENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, rental agreements
with prospective occupants for vacations rentals that were pre-existing as of
the effective date of this chapter (hereinafter "Pre-existing Agreements") are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, provided that the rental agreements
with prospective occupants for vacation rentals are made under a current valid
approved vacation rental certificate and the rental occurs prior to expiration
of the current valid approved vacation rental certificate.
   (B)   If a vacation rental owner is cited for a violation of noncompliance
with this chapter, when the vacation rental is occupied under the terms of a
pre-existing agreement, the vacation rental owner may defend such violation
based on the fact that the vacation rental was exempt from this chapter due to
it being occupied pursuant to a pre-existing agreement. Such defense shall be
determined based upon the following information, and upon any additional
information supplied by the vacation rental owner:
      (1)   Copy of deposit or payment information evidencing a pre-existing
agreement;
      (2)   Copy of e-mail or other communication evidencing a binding pre-
existing agreement;
      (3)   Information from the occupant confirming that there was a binding
preexisting agreement; or
      (4)   Written vacation rental agreement dated prior to April 15, 2020.
   (C)   Any person who supplies false or fraudulent information supporting a
pre-existing agreement shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to enforcement in accordance with §
74-4, Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   Determination of exemption of a pre-existing agreement for a vacation
rental from the requirements of this chapter under this section shall not
exempt the occupants of the vacation rental from compliance with all other Town
of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances requirements, including those related to
noise, parking, nuisances.
(Ord. 2020-02, adopted 5-20-20; Am. Ord. 2024-05, adopted 2-19-25)
CHAPTER 75: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENTS COST RECOVERY
Section
   
75-1   Intent and purpose; statutory authority; jurisdiction
   
75-2   Definitions
   
75-3   Liability for costs
   
75-4   Collection and disbursement of funds
   
75-5   Methods of enforcement
   75-6 – 75-99   Reserved
§ 75-1. INTENT AND PURPOSE; STATUTORY AUTHORITY; JURISDICTION.
   (a)   Intent and purpose. This chapter is intended to provide for recovery
by the town, a political subdivision, its agencies or agents, of costs incurred
in response and recovery efforts related to hazardous material incidents. In
addition, it is intended to provide for cost recovery for damages to natural
resources and government-owned properties.
   (b)   Authority. The Town Commission has the authority to adopt this chapter
pursuant to the provisions of Chapters 166 and 252, Florida Statutes. When the
Melbourne Beach Volunteer Fire Department provides response for hazardous
materials incidents it shall have the authority to take whatever action it
determines to be necessary to contain and mitigate the situation in the
interest and well-being of the public. The Fire Department personnel shall be
authorized to contact hazardous waste disposal companies to provide expeditious
mitigation of hazardous materials incidents. Severity and toxicity of the
incident may be considered in evaluating the response capability of each
private company for each incident.
   (c)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply within the Town of Melbourne
Beach, located in Brevard County in the State of Florida.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 75-2. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   COSTS. Shall mean and include, but is not limited to any of the following:
      (1)   All costs incurred for remedial actions, to include response,
incident assessment, control, containment, abatement, disposal, including cost
associated with transportation, temporary storage, permanent storage or
disposal of hazardous materials if such transportation, temporary storage,
permanent storage or disposal if necessary to control, contain and abate the
hazardous materials incident.
      (2)   Damages for injury to, destruction of or loss of natural resources,
as determined by the appropriate local, state or federal agency, including the
reasonable costs of assessing such injury, destruction or loss resulting from a
hazardous material incident.
      (3)   Health costs for persons or animals injured from or costs of any
health assessment or health effects study carried out as a necessity resulting
from a hazardous material incident.
      (4)   Costs of labor, including benefits, overtime and administrative
overhead, for time devoted specifically to the hazardous materials incident
including personnel costs to "backfill" when necessary, in order to maintain
sufficient personnel for response to other emergencies or requests for service.
      (5)   Costs of equipment, operation, leasing, repair and replacement
where necessary.
      (6)   Costs of contract labor and equipment.
      (7)   Costs of labor and equipment, including rental or leased equipment,
utilized or contracted by the Town of Melbourne Beach to the extent such labor
and equipment is necessary for emergency response, incident assessment,
control, containment and abatement of the immediate hazard. Costs for
equipment, owned and operated by the Town of Melbourne Beach and owned and
operated by a governmental agency shall be those contained in the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Schedule of Equipment rates in force at the
time of the incident. Rates for equipment not listed in the schedule will be
requested from FEMA if necessary. Labor costs of operators are not included in
the schedule and shall be considered as separate.
      (8)   Costs of materials such as sorbents, foam, dispersants,
neutralization agents, overpack drums or containers, etc.
      (9)   Costs of supervision and verification of cleanup and abatement.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance or material defined, listed, characterized
or classified as a hazardous material, hazardous substance, hazardous waste or
toxic substance according to chapter 38F-41, Florida Administrative Code (the
Florida Substance List); title 40 Code of Federal Regulations 261
(Identification and Listing of Hazardous Wastes); title 40 Code of Federal
Regulations 3.021.4 (Designation of Hazardous Substances); title 40 Code of
Federal Regulations 355, appendices A and B (List of Extremely Hazardous
Substances); and title 49 Code of Federal Regulations 172.101 and 172.102
(Hazardous Materials Tables).
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT. Actual or threatened release of hazardous
substance or materials, including hazardous waste, which pose an imminent
threat to the health, safety or welfare of the population.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A substance or material that the United States
Secretary of Transportation has determined is capable of posing an unreasonable
risk to health, safety, and property when transported in commerce, and has
designated as hazardous under section 5103 of Federal hazardous materials
transportation law (49 U.S.C. 5103). The term includes hazardous substances,
hazardous wastes, marine pollutants, elevated temperature materials, materials
designated as hazardous in the Hazardous Materials Table (see 49 C.F.R.
172.101), and materials that meet the defining criteria for hazard classes and
divisions in 49 C.F.R. 173.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. Land, fish, wildlife, biota, air, water, groundwater,
drinking water supplies and other such resources belonging to, managed by, held
in trust by, appertaining to or otherwise controlled by the county, county
agencies and the municipalities.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
commercial entity, commercial, joint venture, governmental entity or any other
legal entity.
   RECOVERY. A phase of emergency management which restores the site of an
incident to pre-emergency conditions.
   RELEASE. The accidental or intentional sudden or gradual spilling, leaking,
pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping,
leaching, dumping or disposing into the environment (including the abandonment
or discarding of barrels, container and other receptacles containing any
hazardous material or substance or waste or pollutant or contaminant).
   RESPONSE. A phase of emergency management which occurs during and
immediately following an incident, provides emergency assistance to victims of
the event, and reduces the likelihood of secondary damage.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person whose negligent or intentional act or omission
caus d a release, or the person who owned or had custody or control of the
hazardous substance or waste at the time of such release without regard to
fault or proximate cause, or the person who owned or had custody or control of
the container which held the hazardous substance at the time or immediately
prior to such release without regard to fault or proximate cause.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 75-3. LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (a)   Any responsible party who causes a hazardous material incident hall be
liable for the payment of all costs incurred by the town and its agents for
response to and remediation of such an incident.
   (b)   The town will seek all available remedies at law, to include the
provisions of this chapter, against any parties responsible for any
environmentally damaging event, to include those actions and remedies available
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code relating to such matters.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 75-4. COLLECTION AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (a)   Agent for collection. The Town Finance Department may serve as the
town's agent for collecting invoices and billing the responsible party for cost
. Agencies of the town and organizations responding to a hazardous materials
incident at the request of the town will be eligible to submit bills. A third-
party cost recovery collection service may be utilized by the town.
   (b)   Submission of invoices. Invoices identifying eligible costs under this
chapter shall be submitted to the Finance Department within 30 days after the
cost was incurred or identified. Submitted invoices should include sufficient
documentation for cost reimbursement (i.e., copies of time sheets for specific
personnel. copies of bills for materials, equipment and supplies procured or
used, etc.). Accepting invoices from agencies outside the town shall not incur
liability to the town to pay costs from such agencies until payment is received
by the town from the responsible party.
   (c)   Method or payment. The Finance Department shall submit one or a series
of consolidated invoices to the responsible party identifying agencies, agent
or municipalities and their specific cost of reimbursements. The responsible
party shall issue a certified check to each eligible agency, agent or
municipalities requesting cost recovery for the amount incurred, within 60 days
of receiving a consolidated invoice.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
§ 75-5. METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Supplemental beneficial projects (SBP). This chapter shall not
prohibit the Town of Melbourne Beach from entering into binding agreements with
the responsible party for monetary payment, provided that all or part of the
responders agree with the SBP in lieu of payment or the Town of Melbourne Beach
accepts the SBP and compensates the other responders. SBPs are projects which a
responsible party agrees to undertake to benefit the emergency response entity
but is not otherwise legally required to perform. The SBP must have a direct
benefit to the responding entity of the Town of Melbourne Beach and the value
of the SBP can be used to offset monetary payment on a dollar for dollar basis.
There is no minimum or maximum amount of monetary payment that can be offset by
a SBP.
   (b)   Civil action. The town may enforce the provisions of this chapter by
civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of any
amounts due under this chapter plus administrative collection costs and
attorneys' fees, or for any other relief that may be appropriate. A certified
copy of a judgment in favor of the town may be recorded in the public records
and thereafter shall constitute a lien upon any real or personal property owned
by such person; and such lien shall be coequal with the lien of all state,
district and municipal taxes, superior in dignity to all other liens. titles
and claims until paid or extinguished.
   (c)   Other remedies. This chapter shall not prohibit the town from pursuing
any other remedy, whether civil or criminal, or from instituting any
appropriate action or proceeding, including injunction in a court of competent
jurisdiction, nor shall the recovery of extraordinary expenses under this
chapter in any way release the various parties, or limit them, from legal
liability incurred as a result of hazardous material cleanup or abatement as
defined under any local state or federal rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2021-05, adopted 11-17-21)
APPENDIX “A”
LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Chapters
   
1A   Land Development Code
   
2A   Comprehensive Plan
   
3A   Concurrency
   
4A   Buildings; Flood Protection; Coastal Construction
   
5A   Coastal Setback Regulations
   
6A   Subdivision
   
7A   Zoning
   
8A   Preservation of Vested Rights; Takings; Due Process
   
9A   Landscaping and Trees
   
10A   Reserved
   
11A   Environmentally Sensitive Lands
CHAPTER 1A: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
1A-1   Short title
   
1A-2   Intent
   
1A-3   Definitions
   
1A-4   Fees
   
1A-5   Procedure to amend Land Development Code
   
1A-6   County impact fees
   
1A-7   Procedures for quasi-judicial hearings; ex parte communications; site
visits; receipt of expert opinion; and review of mail and other communications
   
1A-8 – 1A-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1A-1. SHORT TITLE.
   (a)   This appendix to the Town Code of Ordinances of Melbourne Beach may be
referred to and shall be known as the Land Development Code.
   (b)   The Land Development Code shall include development-related
requirements of the town and all development in the Town, whether public or
private, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Land Development Code.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 1A-2. INTENT.
   Reserved.
§ 1A-3. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions will apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A permanent building or structure, subordinate to and
located on the same lot with a principal building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the principal building and which is not attached by any
part of a common wall or common roof to the principal building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is customarily incidental and subordinate to a
principal use.
   ADDITION (to an existing building). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. The term as defined by Florida Statutes.
   ALLEY. Any public or private right-of-way set aside for secondary public
travel and servicing.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the town's interpretation of any provision
of this article.
   APPLICANT. Any person having an ownership, whether legal or equitable, in a
parcel of land in the Town or said person's attorney-in-fact, who applies for a
Development Order.
   AQUIFER. A subsurface rock layer that contains water and releases it in
appreciable amounts. Aquifers are important reservoirs storing large amounts of
water relatively free from evaporation loss or pollution. An aquifer may be
porous rock, unconsolidated gravel, fractured rock or cavernous limestone.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   ASSURED CONSTRUCTION. Construction improvements to a public facility
scheduled to be made to a major thoroughfare link or other roadway, wastewater
treatment facility, potable water supply facility, stormwater management
system, parks and recreation system or solid waste disposal facility or
construction or obtaining one of the foregoing by one or more of the following
means:
      (1)   For parks and recreation systems, stormwater management systems,
drainage retention system or major thoroughfare link or other roadway
improvements or for solid waste disposal facilities, wastewater treatment
facilities or potable water supply facilities, all in relation to a non-final
Development Order, inclusion in the adopted five-year schedule of capital
improvements in the Capital Improvements Element of a local government or in
the State's Five-Year Schedule of Capital Improvements, of a funded
improvement; provided, that, the aforementioned schedule is realistic,
financially feasible, is based on currently available revenue sources and
contains estimated project completion dates for the affected public facility;
      (2)   For wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste disposal
facilities, potable water supply facilities, stormwater management systems and
drainage retention systems, if the Development Permit is a Final Development
Order, construction of the facility must be complete, and the facility must be
operable and able to supply all capacity needed for a particular proposed
project or phase thereof, all prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy
for structures within the proposed project or phase thereof;
      (3)   For parks and recreation, if the Development Permit is a Final
Development Order, the necessary facilities and services must be available
within one year of the issuance of the applicable Development Permit;
      (4)   For roads, if the Development Permit is a Final Development Order,
the necessary facilities and services must be included in the Capital
Improvements Element and a financially feasible five-year schedule of capital
improvements of a local government. The Capital Improvements Element and
schedule of capital improvements may recognize and include transportation
projects included in the first three years of the applicable adopted Florida
Department of Transportation five-year work program. Further, the five-year
schedule of capital improvements of either the state or the local government
must demonstrate that the actual construction of the roads, facilities and
provision of services are scheduled to commence in or before the third year of
the five-year schedule of capital improvements. For any programmed construction
to be considered to be assured construction pursuant hereto, the necessary
right-of-way or property needed for the public facility and service must have
been obtained prior to the issuance of the Development Order, and at a minimum,
subject to: a binding contract for purchase, currently filed and pending
condemnation lawsuit, or binding, uncontested agreement or condition of
Development approval. If the assured construction (other than for wastewater
treatment, Solid Waste, or potable water) which was relied upon for the
issuance of a Development Order, pursuant to § 3A-6(a), was included in the
five-year capital improvements program of a local government or the state and
the amount of construction or timing of the construction is subsequently
deleted from the five-year capital improvements program, Final Development
Orders for a proposed project or phase thereof, which proposed project or phase
was conditioned on that particular construction may be granted, notwithstanding
the original phasing schedule for the deleted construction, as though the
construction was completed in accordance with the five-year capital
improvements program upon which the Development Order was based; provided
further, that the necessary right-of-way or property has been acquired. For
purposes of this paragraph, “deletion” shall mean the elimination of the
construction program, the material reduction in the scope of construction work
or funding thereof (as it affects the construction program), the postponement
of the construction project in the five-year capital improvements program for
more than one year beyond the year the construction was originally programmed
and funded in the five-year capital improvements program, the failure to let a
construction contract, or the removal of or failure to continue funding of the
construction program; but shall not include construction delays, design delays,
contracting delays or similar delays.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR FACILITIES. All mechanical and engine overhaul or repair,
bodywork and painting of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLE. See MOTOR VEHICLE.
   AVAILABLE CAPACITY. The capacity of a facility available for use by the
demand from new development. Available capacity is equal to the existing (or
programmed) capacity minus the existing demand minus the committed demand.
   AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC. The total traffic volume during a given time period
(more than a day and less than a year) divided by the number of days in that
time period. This volume is NOT adjusted for seasonal variations in traffic.
   BACKGROUND TRAFFIC. The expected increase from overall growth that includes
traffic from other developments, both existing and approved, but not yet
completed.
   BAR/LOUNGE. An establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages for on-site
consumption.
   BARRIER. A wall, fence or hedge that limits the movement of people across a
boundary.
   BARRIER ISLAND. A long, narrow sand island that is parallel to the mainland
and serves to protect the mainland coast from erosion. Barrier islands
typically have dunes along the exposed outer side, zones of vegetation in the
interior and swampy areas along the inner lagoon. Also, see COASTAL BARRIER
ISLAND.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on the front, rear and sides.
   BEACH. The zone of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low water line to the place where there is marked change in material or
physiographic form or to the line of permanent vegetation. BEACH is
alternatively termed SHORE.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INNS. A use: (i) consisting of a building(s) designed and
used as a single-family or a multi- family, either attached or detached
dwelling(s); (ii) consisting of a single-family or multi-family dwelling unit
(s) together with the rental of one or more, but not to exceed 12 sleeping
rooms or suites on a short-term basis of less than 15 days, usually by the
night to tourists, vacationers, or similar transients; (iii) where the
provision of meals, if provided at all, is limited to the breakfast meal for
overnight guests; and (iv) where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted
by an owner or operator of the bed and breakfast inn who physically resides on
the premises. A BED AND BREAKFAST is not a rooming house, motel, hotel, or a
permanent dwelling, except for the owner or operator of the bed and breakfast
inn and the owner or operator’s immediate family. Further, a BED AND BREAKFAST
is not a resort condominium or timeshare meaning any unit or group of units in
a condominium, cooperative, or timeshare plan which is designed or used for
transient occupancy.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. A practice or combination of practices that are
the most effective, practical means of preventing or reducing the amount of
pollution generated by the project to a level compatible with Florida water
quality standards found in Chapter 17-3, Florida Administrative Code, (FAC) or
in the case of an Outstanding Florida Waters, those standards prescribed in
Chapter 17-4, FAC.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. Any sign advertising a product or service, including
entertainment or candidacy, which product or service is not available for sale
or performance at the place where the sign is located.
   BLUFF LINE. An ambulatory line which shifts with shore line changes
signifying the edge of a marine cliff or bluff, or a steep bank located beside
a river, ravine, plain or ocean, or the broad, steep face of a bank or
headland.
   BREEZEWAY. An open passageway for movement of air, creating visual access.
The Atlantic Ocean is the eastern boundary of the breezeway and the first
north/south public right- of-way westward of the Atlantic Ocean is the western
boundary of the breezeway.
   BUFFER, OPEN SPACE. A specified setback between land uses that contains no
buildings or signage; a physical dimension intended to reduce the impact of a
more intense use on a less intense use.
   BUFFER, VEGETATIVE. A permanent strip of perennial native vegetation (or
vegetation with low water demands) of a specified width, established and
maintained in accordance with an approved landscape plan to minimize the risk
of pollutants reaching surface waters, to treat stormwater, and/or to provide a
protective transition between land uses and reduce the impact of a more intense
use on a less intense use.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING HEIGHTS. See HEIGHT OF BUILDING.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the Town Manager and charged
with the administration, interpretation, and enforcement of concurrency,
building, flood control, coastal construction, coastal setback regulation,
landscaping and trees, and environmentally sensitive lands, all as set forth in
this Land Development Code.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Per Florida Building Code, a BUILDING PERMIT shall apply to
the construction, erection, alteration, modification, repair, equipment, use
and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every public an
private building, structure or facility or floating residential structure, or
any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings, structures or
facilities.
   BUILDOUT PERIOD. The time between the issuance of a Development Order and
completion of a proposed project.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment (a factory or an assembly plant or
retail store or warehouse, etc.) where business is conducted, goods are made or
stored or processed or where services are rendered.
   BUSINESS STRUCTURE. Any freestanding commercial building which may contain
any number of business establishments having a common roof or facade.
   CAPTURED TRIPS.  A reduction of trips, as a percentage, to account for the
“capture” of vehicles that will travel from one use to another without leaving
the site and utilizing the roadway system, typically as part of a mixed-use
system.
   CHANGE OF USE shall mean a change from the use existing to any other use.
   CHIMNEY. Structure for venting gas or smoke. A hollow vertical structure,
usually made of brick or steel, that allows gas, smoke, or steam from a fire or
furnace to escape into the atmosphere.
   CLEARING. The removal of vegetation from the land. CLEARING shall not
include mowing of grass.
   CLINIC. An establishment where human patients are not lodged overnight, but
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or dentists
practicing medicine together.
   COASTAL BARRIER ISLANDS. The geological features which are completely
surrounded by marine  waters that front upon the open waters of the Atlantic
Ocean and are composed of quartz sands, clays, limestone, oolites, rock, coral,
coquina, sediment or other material, including spoil disposal, which features
lie above the line of mean high water.
   COASTAL BUILDING ZONE. A zone that includes the entire Town.
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE (CCCL). The 1986 Florida Department of
Environmental Protection, Coastal Construction Control Line, as established
under the Florida Statutes. The State of Florida has established Coastal
Construction Control Lines (CCCL) on a county-by- county basis to define that
portion of the beach-dune system which is subject to severe fluctuations
following major storm events. The purpose of the CCCL is to preserve and
protect coastal barrier dunes and adjacent beaches from imprudent construction
which can jeopardize the stability of the beach-dune system, accelerate
erosion, and provide inadequate protection for upland structures.
   COASTAL or SHORE PROTECTION STRUCTURE. Shore hardening structures, such as
seawalls, bulkheads, revetments, rubble mound structures, groins, breakwaters
and aggregates of materials other than beach sand used for shoreline
protection, beach and dune restoration and other structures which are intended
to prevent erosion or protect other structures from wave and hydrodynamic
forces.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. A Board appointed by the Town Commission to enforce
this Code and other Town ordinances.
   COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. A structure or building construction which exclusively
supports any activity involving the sale or rental of goods or services
involving money transactions or barter.
   CONCURRENCY. The necessary public facilities and services, to maintain the
adopted level of service (LOS) standards, that are available when the impacts
of development occur.
   CONDOMINIUM. A dwelling unit in a multi-family structure which is in
compliance with the Florida Condominium Law.
   CONSISTENT. Development that complies with land use categories, densities or
intensities, and furthers the goals, objectives and policies in the
Comprehensive Plan and meets all other applicable criteria established by the
local government.
   CONSTRUCTION. Erection, alteration or an extension of a structure.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail establishment of up to 5,000 square feet selling
primarily food products, household items, newspaper and magazines, candy and
beverages, and a limited amount of freshly prepared foods such as sandwiches
and salads for off-premises consumption.
   COURTESY NOTICE. A notice, that is not required by law, informing owners
within 500 feet of a particular property that a public hearing will be held to
consider action by a Board, Commission, or the Town Commission that may result
in development activity on that property. The Town's failure to mail or the
fact that the intended recipient shall not receive a courtesy notice shall in
no way invalidate any action taken by the Town or its Boards and Commissions.
   CUPOLA. A dome, especially a small dome on a circular or polygonal base
crowning a roof.
   DeMINIMUS. A discrepancy so small or minimal in difference that it is
inconsequential.
   DEVELOPED. That point in time when the building and site have received final
inspections for occupancy or use by the Building Official.
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying out of any building activity or mining operation,
the making of any material change in the use or appearance of any structure or
land, or the dividing of land into three or more parcels. This term does not
include the use of land for the purpose of growing plants, crops, trees, and
other agricultural or forestry products, or the raising of livestock; or for
other agricultural purposes.
      (1)   The following activities or uses shall be taken for the purposes of
this chapter to involve “development,” as defined in this section:
         (a)   A reconstruction, alteration of the size, or material change in
the external appearance of a structure on land.
         (b)   A change in the intensity of use of land, such as an increase in
the number of dwelling units in a structure or on land or a material increase
in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices, or dwelling
units in a structure or on land.
         (c)   Alteration of a shore or bank of a seacoast, river, stream,
lake, pond, or canal, including any “coastal construction”.
         (d)   Commencement of drilling, except to obtain soil samples, mining,
or excavation on a parcel of land.
         (e)   Demolition of a structure.
         (f)   Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
         (g)   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste, or fill on a parcel of
land.
      (2)   The following operations or uses shall not be taken for the purpose
of this chapter to involve “development” as defined in this section:
         (a)   Work by a highway or road agency or railroad company for the
maintenance or improvement of a road or railroad track, if the work is carried
out on land within the boundaries of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Work by any utility and other persons engaged in the
distribution or transmission of gas, electricity, or water, for the purpose of
inspecting, repairing, renewing, or constructing on established rights-of-way
any sewers, mains, pipes, cables, utility tunnels, power lines, towers, poles,
tracks, or the like. This provision conveys no property interest and does not
eliminate any applicable notice requirements to affected land owners.
         (c)   Work for the maintenance, renewal, improvement, or alteration of
any structure, if the work affects only the interior or the color of the
structure or the decoration of the exterior of the structure.
         (d)   The use of any structure or land devoted to dwelling uses for
any purpose customarily incidental to enjoyment of the dwelling.
         (e)   The use of any land for the purpose of growing plants, crops,
trees, and other agricultural or forestry products; raising livestock; or for
other agricultural purposes.
         (f)   A change in use of land or structure from a use within a class
specified in an ordinance or rule to another use in the same class.
         (g)   A change in the ownership or form of ownership of any parcel or
structure.
         (h)   The creation or termination of rights of access, riparian
rights, easements, covenants concerning development of land, or other rights in
land.
      (3)   “Development,” as designated in an ordinance, rule, or development
permit includes all other development customarily associated with it unless
otherwise specified. When appropriate to the context, “development” refers to
the act of developing or to the result of development. Reference to any
specific operation is not intended to mean that the operation or activity, when
part of other operations or activities, is not development.
   DEVELOPMENT ORDER. Any order, or official action of local government,
granting, denying, or granting with conditions, or any other official action of
the local government having the effect of permitting the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A building permit, zoning permit, subdivision approval,
rezoning, certification, special exception, variance, conditional use or any
other official action of local government having the effect of permitting the
development of land.
   DIRECTLY ACCESSED. When a development has ingress and egress points
intersecting with a street or roadway immediately abutting it by means of
driveways and intersections.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE (STORMWATER). Discharge of stormwater through a control
structure to the receiving water body without intervening treatment of the
stormwater.
   DISCHARGE. The outflow of water from a project, site, aquifer, drainage
basin or facility.
   DISCHARGE POINT. The point, location or structure at which stormwater runoff
discharges from a storm sewer or stormwater management system to a receiving
conveyance facility or body of water.
   DISCHARGE RATE. The volume of fluid per unit time leaving a site.
   DISCHARGE STRUCTURE. A structural device through or over which water is
discharged from a stormwater management system.
   DISTRICT. A zone within the Town, so designated on the official zoning map.
   DRAINAGE. The removal or conveyance of water from an area.
   DRIVE-IN, DRIVE-UP, OR DRIVE-THROUGH. Any use which by design, physical
facilities, service or procedure encourages or permits customers, consumers, or
other persons, to receive services, obtain goods, food, money, or information,
or be entertained, while remaining in their motor vehicles. This term includes
“drive-in”, “drive-up”, and “drive-through” or similar types of facilities.
   DUNE. A mound or ridge of loose sediments, usually sand-sized, lying
landward of the beach, and deposited by natural or artificial means.
   DURATION. The period of time from beginning of a rainfall event to the end
of a rainfall event.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential building that includes three or
more dwelling units on a single parcel of land.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. One residential dwelling unit on a single parcel of
land.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families. Duplexes
are so classed.
   DWELLING UNIT or LIVING UNIT. One (1) or more rooms with private bath and
kitchen facilities comprising an independent self-contained dwelling unit.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. Date on which something takes effect; such as when a policy
is adopted (e.g., an ordinance), or when an agreement is signed (e.g., a
building permit), or a specific date certain is provided that something (e.g.,
a law) will take effect.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   ENHANCE. To improve, to make better in value, function, desirability or
attractiveness.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land or the removal of beach or dune material
by wind or wave action, tidal current, littoral currents or deflation,
including horizontal recession or scour, which occurs when the topography of
the beach-dune, lagoon or canal system is completely inundated by a storm surge
and wave and current forces erode the beach-dune, lagoon, or canal profile in a
vertical direction.
   ESTABLISH. To institute permanently by enactment or agreement, bring into
existence, bring about.
   EVENT (STORM). The specific storm which is, or is to be, considered in the
design of a stormwater management system.
   EXISTING. The condition of a site or building that exists immediately prior
to a proposed action.
   EXISTING GRADE. The elevation of the surface of the ground established by
natural causes that have become consolidated with the native soil.
   FAMILY. A fundamental social group in society typically consisting of one or
two parents and their children; and/or two or more people who share goals and
values, have long-term commitments to one another, and usually reside in the
same dwelling unit.
   FENCE. A manmade structure designed to restrict or prevent movement across a
boundary.
   FILL. Soil, consolidated or unconsolidated material, deposited on land and/
or in water.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER. A minor subdivision plat approval, a final plat
approval, a limited partition approval, final site plan approval, environmental
permit, building permit, Development Agreement, or any other Development Order
which approves the development of land for a particular use or uses at a
specified intensity of use and which allows commencement of construction or
physical development activity on the land for which the Development Order is
issued.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment that focuses on dealing with
financial transactions, such as investments, loans and deposits.
Conventionally, financial institutions are composed of organizations such as
banks, trust companies, insurance companies and investment dealers, including
real estate brokerage firms.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community published
by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that delineates the approximate
boundary of the floodplain. An FHBM is generally the initial map provided to a
community and is eventually superseded by a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles as well as the flood
hazard boundary- floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR (STORY). The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), for example, top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of
wood flooring in wood frame construction. FLOOR does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FLOOR AREA. The horizontal areas of the floors of a building measured from
exterior faces of exterior walls or from the center lines of walls separating
two attached buildings, excluding carports, porches, etc.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. See GROSS FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The gross floor area of the building(s) on any lot divided
by the area of the lot.
   FOOD TRUCK. A vehicle (including trailers) operated by a mobile food vendor
to prepare and sell food at multiple locations, typically operating at one
location for more than 30 minutes.
   FRONT BUILDING LINE. A line extending from side lot line to side lot line
and commencing at the frontmost portion of the lot's principal structure, not
necessarily coinciding with the front yard setback. On a regular- shaped lot,
the FRONT BUILDING LINE is typically the same as the front yard setback line;
whereas an irregular-shaped lot requires a greater setback than the minimum in
order to meet the lot width requirement.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processingfacilities. FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY does not include long-
term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOAL. A generalized statement of a desired end-state toward which objectives
and policies are directed.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of all Floor Areas of a building, including
finished attics, finished basements and all covered areas, including porches,
sheds, carports and garages.
   GROW HOUSE. A grow house is a property, usually located in a residential
neighborhood, that is primarily used for the production of marijuana but may
also be used as a dwelling. The houses are typically outfitted with extensive
hydroponic equipment to provide water, food, and light to the marijuana plants,
and the houses themselves are usually kept in good condition to blend in with
the neighborhood. Illegal electrical hookups are a common feature of grow
houses, to both save money and to make it harder for authorities to identify
them due to their unusually high electrical usage.
   HEDGE.  A row of closely planted shrubs or low-growing trees forming a
boundary that is substantially opaque in that it operates to block light
emissions or abutting property.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The distance measured from the highest of the minimum
land elevations or structural member elevations, for construction, that are
required by federal, state, or local government regulations based on flood
protection, proximity to the coast, or other standards required to protect the
health, safety, and welfare, to the highest point of the roof or building
facade, whichever is higher, excluding attachments, and architectural features,
that are specifically allowed by the Land Development Code.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to  construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure, or of a
fence.
   HISTORICAL TRAFFIC GROWTH MAP. A map or maps prepared by the Town Manager,
showing the preceding three years' increase or decrease in average annual daily
traffic on various state, county and Town arterial and collector links, based
upon traffic counts and which provide the information to be used in projecting
the background traffic during the buildout period of the proposed project.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity carried out for gain by a resident and
conducted in the resident’s dwelling unit. (See § 7A-62 Home Occupations for
requirements.)
   HOTEL. A commercial establishment providing lodging, meals, and other guest
services. In general, to be called a HOTEL, an establishment must have a
minimum of 13 letting bedrooms, which must have attached (en suite) private
bathroom facilities.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface which has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water. It
includes most conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots,
wet pond surface areas at normal or control elevation and other similar non-
porous surfaces, including area covered by all primary and accessory structures
(excluding utility sheds) and swimming pools.
   INTENSITY. A measurement of the amount of development either allowed or
existing on a property typically expressed as density (units per acre) for
residential uses and floor area ration (FAR) for non-residential uses.
   ITE. The Institute of Transportation Engineers.
   LAND. The earth that lies above mean high water mark for land subject to
tidal inundation and ordinary high water line for land adjacent to freshwater
bodies.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A ordinance regulating any aspect of
development, including any Town zoning, rezoning, subdivision, building
construction, site planning, sign regulation, landscaping or other regulations
controlling the development of land.
   LANDWARD. In a direction away from the Atlantic Ocean.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE. An indicator of the extent or degree of service provided
by, or proposed to be provided by, a public facility based on and related to
the operational characteristics of the public facility.
   LINK. The portion of a major thoroughfare between two major intersections or
between a major intersection and the end of the thoroughfare, or between a
major intersection or end of the thoroughfare and the Town limits.
   LIVING AREA. The minimum floor area of a dwelling as measured by its outside
dimensions exclusive of carports, porches, sheds and attached garages.
   LIVING QUARTER.  See DWELLING UNIT.
   LIVING UNIT. See DWELLING UNIT.
   LOCAL ROAD. A residential street providing service which is of relatively
low average traffic volume, short average trip length or minimal through-
traffic movements, and high land access for abutting property.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, uses,
developed, or built upon.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of
less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. That portion of any lot, parcel or tract of land which is
covered by the principal structure.
   LOT DIMENSIONS.
      (1)   LOT DEPTH. The depth or length of the lot, and measured in feet by
connecting the midpoint of the front (frontage) and rear lot lines. For lots
where the front and rear lot lines are not parallel, the lot depth shall be
measured by drawing several evenly separated lines from the front to rear lot
lines, at right angles to the front lot line, and averaging the length of these
lines.
      (2)   LOT WIDTH. That horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot, measured at right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to
the  front lot line (frontage) at the minimum required building setback line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The boundary lines of a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimension have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat prior to September 26,
1972.
   MAINTAIN. To keep in an existing state; to support or provide for; bear the
expense of.
   MAINTENANCE. The action taken to preserve the functional intent of any
facility or system; normal custodial work needed to sustain original plans or
permits.
   MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Boats and boat trailers, travel trailers,
pickup campers or coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles),
motorized dwellings, tent trailers and the like, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (formerly MOBILE HOME). A structure, transportable in one
or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width
of forty feet or more in length, or when erected on site is three hundred
twenty or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. All single family
manufactured/ mobile homes manufactured since June of 1976 must be built to
standards established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) and must display a label certifying compliance.
   In Florida, the law allows a 500 sq. ft. HUD Code built Manufactured Home to
be sited in a FL Recreation Vehicle Park and for purposes of that occupancy
shall be designated a “Park Model” which can be used for seasonal and vacation
use. Also, a manufactured/mobile home is a motor vehicle and requires a
certificate of title as proof of ownership just as a car or truck does. There
is a separate title document for each section of the manufactured/ mobile home
(there is one title documents for a single-wide home and two title documents
for a double-wide).
   MARIJUANA. Cannabis, meaning all parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis,
whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of
the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant or its seeds or resin, including low-THC cannabis,
which are dispensed from a medical marijuana treatment center for medical use
by a qualified patient.
   MARIJUANA-BASED PRODUCT. A product that contains marijuana or any of its
derivatives, including, but not limited to, tonics, tinctures, balms, salves,
lotions, sprays, ointments, teas, sodas, and pills.
   MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A facility where marijuana or marijuana-based products
are made available for medical purposes in accordance with § 381.986, Fla.
Stat., including any dispensing facility operated by any medical marijuana
treatment center as specifically provided for in § 381.986(8), Fla. Stat., at
which marijuana or marijuana-based products are dispensed as part of a program
of medical treatment.
   MEAN HIGH WATER LINE. The intersection of the tidal plane of mean high water
with the shore. Mean high water is the average height of high waters over a 19-
year period.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide
(i.e., the halfway point between mean high tide and mean low tide. It is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the flood plain. This
term used to be synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD). NGVD
has seen been replaced by the more accurate North American Vertical Datum
(NAVD) system.
   MIXED USE. Mixed-use allows for a variety of uses to share the same
building, lot, or site under specified conditions, and can provide for housing
and non- residential uses simultaneously, or may be limited to strictly non-
residential uses. Mixed-use development uses must be horizontally or vertically
integrated with each other. Vertical integration occurs when different uses
inhabit the same building and sit atop one another, such as offices occupying
the upper floors of a building that has retail below. Horizontal integration
occurs when uses are placed next to each other, such as an apartment building
that is adjacent to restaurants and shops.
   MOBILE MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Any legal entity, clinic, cooperative, club,
business or group which transports or delivers, or arranges the transportation
or delivery, of marijuana to any person, including facilities operated by any
medical marijuana treatment center as specifically provided for in § 381.986
(8), Fla. Stat.
   MOTEL. A building in which lodging or boarding and lodging are provided and
offered to the public; same as a hotel, except that buildings are usually
designed to serve tourists traveling by motor vehicles, ingress to rooms need
not be through a lobby or office, and parking is usually adjacent to the units.
MOTELS do not usually include accessory uses such as meeting or convention
facilities.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self- propelled vehicle or conveyance designed and used
for the purpose of transporting or moving persons, animals, freight,
merchandise or any substance. MOTOR VEHICLE shall include passenger cars, SUVs,
RVs, state registered golf carts, trucks, buses, motorcycles,  scooters and
station wagons but shall not include tractors, construction equipment or
machinery or any device used for performing a job except as stated above.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929. A vertical
control system formerly used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the flood plain. The NGVD has since been replaced by the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) system.
   NEIGHBORHOOD PARK. The Neighborhood Park is a “walk-to” part, generally
located along streets where people can walk or bicycle without encountering
heavy traffic. Neighborhood Parks may be provided through the development
review process, direct acquisition and/or joint use through schools or the
municipal jurisdiction.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this Land Development Code, as may be
amended.
   NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL CIRCULATION. A newspaper published at least on a weekly
basis and printed in English, but does not include a newspapers intended
primarily for members of a particular occupational or professional group, or
whose primary function is to carry legal notices or that is primarily to
distribute advertising.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment dispensing alcoholic beverages for on-site
consumption, whether or not food is served, and which is a place of
entertainment that is usually open late at night, offering live music, dancing,
drinks, and a floorshow;
      (1)   By one or more performing artists;
      (2)   By one or more live entertainers singing to prerecorded music; or
      (3)   A deejay playing recorded music;
A restaurant that provides only background dinner music, entertainment, or
where dancing is conducted to live or recorded music does not constitute a
nightclub.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any lot, use of land, use of structure, use of structure and
premises or characteristics of any use or structure, which was lawfully
permitted at the time of creation of the lot or use or construction of the
structure but by reason of  adoption, revision, or amendment of this
LandDevelopment Code does not currently conform with the provisions of the
district in which it is located.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). Established in 1988, the NAVD is a
new, more accurate system to base elevation measurements, which corrects many
problems associated with using the NGVD system. FEMA’s most recent flood base
maps use NAVD for published base elevations.
   OBJECTIVE. Statements, more specific in nature and which further define the
area’s goals and identifies the steps necessary for the satisfactory pursuit of
a goal.
   OCCUPIED. The use of a structure or land for any purpose, including
occupancy for residential, business, industrial, commercial or public use.
   PARCEL OF LAND. See LOT.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space for parking a motor vehicle not on a
public street or right-of-way.
   PARKING SPACE. A space for parking a motor vehicle.
   PATIO. A level, landscaped, and/or surfaced area, directly adjacent to a
principal building at orwithin three feet of the finished grade and not covered
by a permanent roof. Also referred to as a terrace.
   PERMITTEE. The person in possession or having beneficial use of property.
   PERSON. A human being, partnership corporation, trust or other legal entity.
   PERVIOUS AREA. An area that does not impede the downward flow, infiltration,
or percolation of water into the underlying soil or any groundwater recharge
area and is not covered with an impervious surface.
   PETS. Those animals and fowl normally domesticated and kept as household
pets in the United States and which are generally kept for pleasure rather than
utility, such as dogs, cats, small birds, monkeys, fish and rodents.
   PLAT. A map or delineated representation of the subdivision of lands, being
a complete, exact representation of the subdivision and other information in
compliance with the requirements of all applicable statutes and of local
ordinances, and may include the term “replat.”
   POLICY. A statement that is more detailed than an objective and provides
guidelines for specific actions, which will satisfy particular objectives.
   PORTABLE TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINER. Any container designed for the storage
of private property, that is typically rented for temporary use on a property,
or that is delivered and removed from the property by truck.
   POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for drinking purposes that conforms to the
drinking water standards of Federal, State and local authorities for human
consumption.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The primary building or structure on a lot or building
site designed or used to accommodate the primary use for which the property is
intended.
   PRINCIPAL USE OF STRUCTURE. The primary or predominant use on any lot or
parcel, as opposed to an accessory use.
   PROJECT. Development on a parcel of land or expansion of any development of
a project.
   PROPOSED PROJECT. A project for which an applicant seeks or intends to seek
the issuance of a development order(s), which project is unbuilt or involves
expansion of an existing developed project.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES AND SERVICES or PUBLIC FACILITY. Public transportation,
roadways, drainage/stormwater management, potable water, solid waste disposal,
wastewater treatment, parks, recreation and open space facilities and services.
   PUBLIC USE. Any use of land or structures owned and operated by a
municipality, county, state or the federal government or any agency thereof,
and is intended for use that will directly or indirectly serve the general
public.
   RADIUS OF DEVELOPMENT INFLUENCE. The area surrounding a proposed project. In
the event of Transportation Concurrency and Parks and Recreation Concurrency,
the RADIUS OF DEVELOPMENT INFLUENCE shall be computed from all boundaries of
the parcel of land as a geometric radius.
   RECHARGE. Net downward percolation of water to an aquifer either by
artificial means or naturally by infiltration.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on, or towed by another vehicle. The
basic entities are: camping trailer, fifth-wheel trailer, motor home, park
trailer, travel trailer, and truck camper.
   RENDITION. Issuance of a letter of determination, resolution, ordinance, or
order by the Town Manager, the building official, the zoning official, or other
Town administrative official, the Town Commission or a Town board, an executed
original of which shall be filed in the records of the Town Clerk. Unless
another date shall appear on the face of the letter of determination,
resolution, ordinance, or order, as being the date the instrument was filed in
the records of the Town Clerk, it shall be presumed that the instrument was
filed in the records of the Town Clerk on the date appearing on the instrument
as the date of preparation or execution.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   A restaurant includes any building, vehicle, place, or structure,
or any room or division in a building, vehicle, place, or structure where food
is prepared, served, or sold, all for money or other consideration, for
immediate consumption on or in the vicinity of the premises; called for or
taken out by customers; or prepared prior to being delivered to another
location for consumption.
      (2)   A restaurant is an establishment where food and drink, which may
include alcohol, are prepared, served, or consumed by customers in return for
money. If alcohol is served, unless a special exception for a bar/lounge is
approved by the Town on the restaurant premises, at least 51% of the total
gross revenues must come from the retail sale on the premises of food and non-
alcoholic beverages. Proceeds of catering sales will not be included in the
calculation of total gross revenues.
      (3)   The following are excluded from the definition in paragraph (1):
         a.   Any place maintained and operated by a public or private school,
college, or university:
            1.   For the use of students and faculty; or
            2.    Temporarily to serve such events as fairs, carnivals, and
athletic contests.
         b.   Any eating place maintained and operated by a church or a
religious, nonprofit fraternal, or nonprofit civic organization:
            1.   For the exclusive use of members and associates; or
            2.    Temporarily to serve such events as fairs, carnivals, or
athletic contests.
         c.   Any eating place located on an airplane, train, bus, or
watercraft, which is a common carrier.
         d.   Any eating place maintained by a facility certified or licensed
and regulated by the Agency for Health Care Administration or the Department of
Children and Family Services or other similar place that is regulated under §
381.0072, Fla. Stat.
         e.   Any place of business issued a permit or inspected by the
Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services under § 500.12, Fla. Stat.
         f.   Any place of business where the food that is available for
consumption is limited to ice, beverages with or without garnishment, popcorn,
or prepackaged items sold without additions or preparation.
         g.   Any theater, if the primary use is as a theater and if patron
service is limited to food items customarily served to the admittees of
theaters.
         h.   Any vending machine that dispenses any food or beverages other
than potentially hazardous foods, as defined by division rule.
         i.   Any vending machine that dispenses potentially hazardous food and
which is located in a facility regulated under § 381.0072, Fla. Stat.
         j.    Any research and development test kitchen limited to the use of
employees and which is not open to the general public.
   RETENTION. Prevention of the discharge of a given volume of stormwater
runoff into a public drainage system by complete on-site storage where the
capacity to store the given volume must be provided by a decrease of stored
water caused by percolation through the soil evaporation, or
evapotranspiration. RETENTION shall include, for the purposes of this
definition, detention. Detention shall mean the collection, temporary storage,
and discharge of stormwater in such manner as to provide for conformance to
water quality standards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). Land reserved, used or to be used for a street, alley,
walkway, drainage facility, sewer lines, water lines, or other similar purpose.
A right-of-way does not include utility or drainage easements.
      (1)   Right-of-way street line. The property line which bounds the right-
of-way set aside for use as a street.
      (2)   Right-of-way centerline. The midpoint between the street right-of-
way lines.
   RUNOFF. See STORMWATER.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SATELLITE ANTENNA. Any device used to receive or transmit electrical signals
from or to a satellite, sometimes referred to as an earth station.
   SCHOOL. A land use and any building or part thereof that is designed,
constructed, or used for education, instruction and/or training in any branch,
knowledge or level, which includes business, vocation, technical and trade
schools, schools of art, dance, theater, culture, martial arts, as well as
other instructional institutions such as academic schools.
   SEAWARD. In a direction toward the Atlantic Ocean.
   SEDIMENTS. Solid material, whether mineral or organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported or has moved from its site of origin by air,
water or gravity.
   SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and automotive accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail and
where in addition the following services may be rendered and sales made and
limited to:
         a.   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors and
distributor parts;
         b.   Tire servicing and repair but not recapping or regrooving;
         c.   Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hoses, fan belts,
brake fluid, light fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and wiper
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
         d.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
         e.   Washing and polishing, and sale of automotive washing and
polishing materials;
         f.   Greasing and lubrication;
         g.   Providing and repair of fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
         h.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
         i.   Emergency wiring repairs;
         j.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
         k.   Minor motor adjustments and tune-ups not involving removal of the
head or crankcase or racing the motor;
         l.   Sales of nonalcoholic beverages, vending machine products, and
accessories that are incidental to the principal operation; or
         m.   Provision of road maps and other informational material to
customers; provision of rest room facilities.
      (2)   Uses permissible at a service station do not include major
mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding,
storage of automobiles or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or
other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in service
stations. A SERVICE STATION is not a repair garage, a body shop or a
convenience store.
   SHALL. Used to express a command, is mandatory, to be done at all times
without deviation.
   SHOULD. Expresses ultimate desire, is generally mandatory unless otherwise
justified.
   SIGN. Any device or display consisting of letters, numbers, symbols,
pictures, illustrations, announcements, cutouts, insignia, trademarks or
demonstrations designed to advertise, inform, identify or attract the attention
of persons. SIGN shall be construed to be a display or device containing
elements organized, related and composed to form a single unit. In the event
material is displayed in a random or unconnected fashion without an organized
relationship of the components, each component or element shall be considered a
single sign.
      (1)   ATTACHED SIGN. Any sign on or erected parallel to the face of the
outside wall or roof of any building and supported throughout by such wall or
roof (including signs painted directly on walls or roof).
      (2)   BANNER SIGN. Any sign having the characters, letters, illustrations
or ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, plastic or fabric, including
pendants and wind-operated devices.
      (3)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign for public direction or information
containing no advertising or commercial identification of any product or
service.
      (4)   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two parallel or nearly parallel
faces back to back and located not more than 24 inches from each other.
      (5)   FEATHERED FLAG SIGN. A sign with or without characters, letters,
illustrations, or ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic, or
fabric of any kind with only such material  for backing. Feather flags are
generally a single sign attached to a support post.
      (6)   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains or uses for illustration any
lights or lighting device or devices which change color, flash or alternate,
show movement or motion, or change the appearance of the sign or any part
thereof automatically.
      (7)   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any single-or double-faced sign not attached to
or painted on a building and which is permanently affixed to the ground. A sign
mounted on a freestanding pole or other support, such as a monument, are
examples of freestanding signs.
      (8)   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by an external
light source.
      (9)   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign where the light source is
concealed within the sign visible through a translucent surface.
      (10)   NEON SIGN. A sign illuminated by a neon tube bent into forms to
produce letters, symbols and other shapes.
      (11)   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is mobile and is located for any
total four-hour period per day so as to obviously call attention to a
particular business.
      (12)   SHINGLE SIGN. Any sign erected perpendicular to the front wall of
a building attached to the wall or the underside of any overhang connected to
and supported by the wall.
      (13)   SIGN SURFACE AREA. The area of each sign surface computed by
calculating the area of the circle, square or other geometric design required
to enclose the total sign. Only one side of double-faced signs shall be
calculated in the sign surface area.
      (14)   WINDOW SIGN. Any advertisement, such as painting, white wash,
paste, decals, neon lighted, indirect illuminated, internally illuminated, non-
illuminated or any other method except for the display of the actual
merchandise for sale or rent, located within a window area, which can be viewed
from the property line and is intended to attract attention to a business
establishment shall be classified as a WINDOW SIGN.  The size of a WINDOW SIGN
is the smallest rectangle which will enclose its components.
   SIGNIFICANT PROJECT. Any project that generates vehicular use exceeding the
previously anticipated two-way traffic generated by one hundred trips during
the peak hour of the roadway or the development within the Radius of
Development Influence.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot, including topography, vegetation,
drainage, floodplains, wetlands, and waterways; landscaping and open space;
walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation; utility services;
structures and building; signs and lighting; berms, buffers, and screening
devices; surrounding development; and any other information that reasonably may
be required in order for an informed decision to be made by the approving
authority.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, yard trash, clean debris, white goods, special
waste, ashes, sludge or other discarded material, including solid, liquid,
semisolid or contained gaseous material resulting from domestic, industrial,
commercial, mining, agricultural or governmental operations.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility which is the final resting place
for solid waste, including landfills and incineration facilities that produce
ash from the process of incinerating solid waste.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would be permitted in a
particular zoning district when it is shown that such use in a specified
location will comply with all the conditions and standards for the location or
operation of the use as specified in the zoning ordinance and authorized by the
approving authority. Permissible special exceptions are defined in each zoning
classification.
   SPIRE. A tall, slender pointed structure that rises from a roof.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The detailed analysis which describes how the
proposed stormwater management system for the development has been planned,
designed and will be constructed to meet the requirements of this Land
Development Code.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The designed features of the property which
collect,  convey, channel, hold, inhibit or divert the movement of stormwater
to ensure the proper treatment and storage of these waters.
   STORMWATER or RUNOFF. The flow of water which results from and which occurs
during the period immediately following a rainfall event.
   STORY/STORIES. That portion of a building included between the surface of
any ceiling or roof and the upper surface of the floor immediately below it or
that portion between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor
above it. Excluded from this is non-habitable space used for parking below a
building that has been elevated to meet elevation requirements of federal or
state agencies to an extent that there is sufficient space to park vehicles
below the building.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way set aside for vehicular travel,
which is 30 feet or more in width, either improved or unimproved.
      (1)   STREET CENTERLINE. The midpoint between the street right-of-way.
      (2)   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The property line which bounds the right-
of-way set aside for use as a street. Same as front property line of abutting
lots, in most cases.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials that form a construction for use,
occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above, or below the surface
of land or water. Included are buildings, roads, walkways, paths, swimming
pools, tennis courts, pipelines, underground transmission lines, sheds and the
like.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. A map representing a tract of land, showing the boundaries
and locations of individual properties and street.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any temporary or permanent structure containing a body of
water 18 inches or more in depth and 150 square feet or more of surface area,
intended for recreational purposes, such as swimming or wading, but not
including an ornamental reflecting pool or fish pond or other type of pool
regardless of size, unless it is located and designed so as to create a hazard
or to be also used for swimming or wading.
   TELEVISION ANTENNA. An aerial device used to radiate and receive radio waves
through the air or through space.
   TOTAL FLOOR AREA. See GROSS FLOOR AREA.
   TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling unit of a group of three or more such units
separated by adjoining fire walls or fire walls separated by a space of not
more than six inches.
   TOWN MANAGER.
      (1)   The individual Town employee appointed to said position by the Town
Commission;
      (2)   The Town Manager's designee; or
      (3)   Another individual as designated pursuant to interlocal or other
agreement entered into by the Town Commission.
   TRAILER.  A structure on wheels, towed or hauled by another vehicle, and
used for short-term human occupancy, carrying of materials, goods, or objects,
or as a temporary office.
   TREE. A perennial, woody plant which often has many secondary branches
supported clear of the ground on a single main stem or trunk, with clear apical
dominance. A minimum height specification at maturity is 10 feet.
   TRIP GENERATION STANDARDS. The total number of vehicle trips produced by a
specific land use or activity can be found in the book, “Trip Generation
Manual”, 4th Edition, prepared by the Institute of Transportation Engineers
(ITE), including more recent editions.
   UTILITY SHED. An accessory structure primarily used for storage.
   VARIANCE. Permission to depart from the literal requirements of the Land
Development Code or Zoning Ordinance relating to setbacks, side yards, frontage
requirements, and lot sizes that, if applied to a specific lot, would
significantly interfere with the use of the property.
   VEGETATION. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, vines, ferns, mosses
and grasses.
   VESTED RIGHTS.  Preexisting rights of use that are specifically authorized
to continue to exist, subject to the same limitations and conditions initially
placed upon the preexisting use, but which preexisting use has, subsequent to
the approval and establishment of the preexisting use, been prohibited by the
Land Development Code. VESTED RIGHTS shall not apply to any prohibited use that
is not specifically authorized to continue to exist by the Land Development
Code. VESTED RIGHTS shall not allow for the expansion, in size or scope, of any
preexisting use.
   VOLUME. Occupied space, measured in cubic units.
   WALL.  (1) A freestanding manmade structure designed to restrict or prevent
movement across a boundary constructed with a footer and of masonry products;
(2) The vertical exterior surface of a building; (3) One of the vertical
interior surfaces that divides a building’s space into rooms.
   WATER BODY. Any natural or artificial pond, lake, reservoir or other area
which ordinarily contains water and which usually has a discernible shoreline.
   WATER TABLE. The boundary between the zone of saturation and the zone of
aeration, which varies with such factors as tides, amount of rainfall and
evapotranspiration.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial stream, creek, slough, channel,
ditch, canal, waterway, gully ravine or wash in which water flows in a definite
direction, either continuously or intermittently, and which has a definite,
physically or vegetatively distinct channel, bed or banks.
   WETLANDS. Those areas saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support and that under normal circumstances support a
dominance of vegetation adopted for life in saturated soil conditions. For the
purpose of this Code, WETLANDS are those areas which meet the criteria of those
areas which support a dominance of wetland vegetation types listed in the Rules
of the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation.
   WILD ANIMALS. Animals of a species not usually domesticated as household
pets in the United States.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building which is
unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings from the ground to the sky except for
overhangs or bay windows or as otherwise provided in this section.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A space extending the full width of the lot between any
building and the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the front lot line.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A space extending the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the rear lot line and measured perpendicular to the
building at the closest point to the rear lot line.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. The space extending along the side lot line from the
front yard to the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest
part of the principal building, including covered porches, carports and
garages.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A specifically delineated area shown on the Town of
Melbourne Beach Official Zoning Map within which uniform regulations and
requirements govern the use, placement, spacing and size of land and buildings.
   ZONING OFFICIAL.  The official designated by the Town Manager and charged
with the administration, interpretation, and enforcement of general code
administration, comprehensive planning, subdivision regulation, zoning
regulation, takings, vested rights, and due process, all as set forth in this
Land Development Code, as may be amended.
(Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-18-98; Am. Ord. 2003-04, adopted 12-17-03; Am. Ord.
2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04; Am. Ord. 2-2005,
adopted 7-20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2006-17, adopted
3-21-07; Am. Ord. 2007-10, adopted 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 2008-09, adopted 11-19-08;
Am. Ord. 2013-02, adopted 5-15-13; Am. Ord. 2013-05, adopted 9-18-13; Am. Ord.
2014-08, adopted 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2016-01, adopted 10-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2018-03, adopted 8-15-18; Am. Ord. 2019-04,
adopted 9-18-19; Am. Ord. 2024- 02, adopted 5-15-24)
§ 1A-4. FEES.
   Permit fees for all permits required in this Land Development Code or fees
for applications required in this Land Development Code, including but not
limited to building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, gas, fire, pool, lot
clearing, seawall permits and inspections, plat processing, public hearings,
zoning/rezoning, comprehensive plan amendment, variances, special exceptions,
and appeals, are hereby authorized and shall be set as provided by resolution
of the Town Commission.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 1A-5. PROCEDURE TO AMEND LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE.
   (a)   The procedure for amendment of the Land Development Code shall be as
set forth in this section. This procedure shall not be applicable for amending
the zoning map adopted in §
7A-15. The procedure for amendment of the zoning map shall be as set forth in §
7A-101 of the Land Development Code.
   (b)   An amendment to the text of the Land Development Code, excluding the
text of the Comprehensive Plan, may be initiated by:
      (1)   The owner of real property located in the Town or by said owner's
authorized attorney-in-fact;
      (2)   Any resident of the Town;
      (3)   Town Commission;
      (4)   Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency;
      (5)   Town Manager; or
      (6)   Town Attorney.
   (c)   Application by Town Commission, Planning and Zoning Board/Local
Planning Agency, Town Manager or Town Attorney. A proposal to amend the Land
Development Code may be initiated by the Town Commission, Planning and Zoning
Board/Local Planning Agency, Town Manager, or Town Attorney by filing a written
proposal with the Town Manager or his designee, as set forth herein. The
written proposal shall be classified as an “application” as that term is used
herein. Applications filed pursuant to this division (c) shall be classified as
administrative applications of the Town and shall be exempt from the
requirements of division hereof.
   (d)   Application by resident or real property owner. Every applicant, other
than the Town or a Town official or board, including but not limited to an
owner of real property within the Town, or resident of the Town, shall be
required to file an application pursuant to the requirements of division
hereof.
   (e)   Application Form. A complete written application for an amendment to
the Land Development Code shall be submitted to the Town Manager or his
designee. Until all informational items required on the application form are
provided, the application shall not be considered to be complete for review and
consideration. All items required to be submitted by this section which are not
answered on the application form but which may be appended or attached to the
application form or which may be on separate sheets of paper shall be deemed to
be a part of the application form as if specifically included therein. All
applicants shall be required to execute the application form in the presence of
a notary public and by oath or affirmation swear to the truth of the statements
in the application or that to the best of said applicant's knowledge and belief
the statements in the application are true and correct, or alternatively, an
applicant may execute an application at the end of said application wherein it
shall state “Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have read the
foregoing application for Amendment to the Land Development Code and that to
the best of my knowledge and belief the facts stated in it are true.”
Applications executed for a corporation shall be executed by an authorized
vice-president or superior corporate officer. Applications executed by a
partnership shall be executed by an authorized general partner. Applications
shall be made upon a form to be designed by the Town Manager or his designee,
which form shall include:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of any agent who will or
might represent the applicant in any Town review proceeding regarding the
application;
      (3)   A general description of the proposed amendment to the Land
Development Code, explaining why the amendment is necessary or appropriate;
      (4)   The specific code sections to be amended or adopted and the
specific wording to be adopted;
      (5)   An analysis of the impact of the amendment on the environment and
natural and historical resources, if any;
      (6)   An analysis of the degree of consistency of the proposed amendment
with the Town's Comprehensive Plan;
      (7)   An analysis of the impact upon the town's ability to provide
adequate public facilities and maintain the existing level of service for
public facilities as identified in the Comprehensive Plan, if the amendment is
granted; and
      (8)   Payment of all appropriate processing fees and charges, as set from
time to time. Processing fees shall be compensation for the cost of review by
the Town administration and administrative expenses. All applicants shall pay
all costs necessary for the giving of any public notice as required by state or
local law.
   (f)   Amendments by applicant to proposed amendment. Amendments to a pending
application once said application is deemed to be sufficient for review after
satisfaction of the requirements in division (e) of this section may not be
made by the applicant unless said amendment is accepted by the Planning and
Zoning Board or the Town Commission.
   (g)   Following a determination by the Town Manager or his designee that the
application is sufficient for consideration and meets the requirements of
division (e) of this section, if applicable, the Town Clerk shall advertise a
public hearing to be held by the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning
Agency. The advertisement shall contain notice of the time, place, date and
purpose of the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency public hearing.
It shall be placed in a newspaper of general circulation, as defined in the
Chapter 50, Fla. Stat. Said publication shall be made not less than 15 days
prior to the date of the public hearing regarding an application. Said notice
shall advise the general public that the Planning and Zoning Board/Local
Planning Agency will accept written or oral comment from the public with regard
to the application; that the application may be reviewed by the public; the
location, days, and time during which the application may be examined by the
public; and that anyone wishes to appeal any action of the Planning and Zoning
Board/Local Planning Agency may need a verbatim transcript of the public
hearing and that said person shall be responsible for furnishing said
transcript.
   (h)   Conduct of Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency Hearing.
The Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency shall encourage and accept
oral and written comments from the applicant or the applicant's agent or
attorney, Town staff or other governmental entities, the Town Attorney and the
general public. The Board may, in its discretion, seek the recommendation of
the Town Planner or other consultant with Town Commission concurrence. Letters
or other written communications received by the Town regarding a pending
application shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning
Agency and made a part of the record. Following the public hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency shall make a recommendation to
the Town Commission with regard to each application. The recommendation may be
based upon all factors affecting the public health, safety, welfare, economic
order, public interest and aesthetics, but the recommendation must include a
finding regarding the consistency with and relationship of the proposal to the
Comprehensive Plan. The recommendation shall be forwarded to the Town
Commission for review and final action.
   (i)   Preparation of Ordinance. In any proposal to amend the Land
Development Code brought pursuant to this Section, Town resources shall not be
expended or utilized to prepare an ordinance implementing any proposed
amendment until the Town Commission has authorized the preparation of such an
ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 1A-6. COUNTY IMPACT FEES.
   No impact fee for emergency services facilities expansion, including but not
limited to fire and ambulance emergency response, shall be collected within the
jurisdictional limits of the Town. Brevard County Ordinance No. 89-02, as
amended from time to time, shall not be effective within the jurisdictional
limits of the Town.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 1A-7. PROCEDURES FOR QUASI- JUDICIAL HEARINGS; EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS; SITE
VISITS; RECEIPT OF EXPERT OPINION; AND REVIEW OF MAIL AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   Intent. Pursuant to § 286.0115(1), Fla. Stat., it is the intent of the
Town Commission that this section is intended to remove the presumption of
prejudice from ex parte communications with Town officials and to permit site
visits, the receipt of expert opinion, and the review of mail and other
communications relating to certain quasi-judicial proceedings by said
officials. No permission pursuant to § 286.0115, Fla. Stat., to engage in ex
parte communications or to conduct site visits, receive expert opinion at other
than an advertised public hearing, or to review mail and other communications
is authorized by the Town Commission pursuant to this section, except for the
quasi-judicial matters set forth herein and only to the extent set forth below.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   EX PARTE COMMUNICATION. A communication involving a Town official and a
member of the public, applicant or applicant’s representative regarding a
pending quasi-judicial permit application, appeal, or code enforcement matter,
such that the Town official may be exposed to only one perspective or part of
the evidence with regard to a quasi-judicial matter pending before the Town
Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency, the Board of
Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement Board.
   MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC. Any person interested in a quasi- judicial permit
application, appeal, or code enforcement matter, including but not limited to a
permit applicant, an appellant from the Building Official or other Town
administrator's decision, an officer or member of a homeowners' association, an
officer or member of an environmental, homebuilding/ development, or concerned
citizens' organization, an official or employee of a governmental entity other
than the Town, a developer, a property owner, or any other interested citizen,
or a representative or attorney for any of the foregoing.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL. A land use, zoning or building related permit or appeal,
code enforcement issue, or the opening, diverting, narrowing, straightening,
widening or vacating of any roadway, alley, easement, public highway, street or
right-of-way, as set forth below, in which Town officials give notice and an
opportunity to be heard to certain substantially affected persons, investigate
facts, ascertain the existence of facts, hold hearings, weigh evidence, draw
conclusions from the facts, and apply the law to the facts, as the basis for
their decision. The following are the only quasi- judicial matters subject to
this section:
      (A)   Variances granted by the Board of Adjustment or Town Commission;
      (B)   Site specific rezonings of land pursuant to §
7A-101 of this code, which rezoning will have an impact on a limited number of
persons or property owners, on identifiable parties and interests, where the
decision is contingent on a fact or facts arrived at from distinct alternatives
presented at a hearing, and where the decision can be functionally viewed as
policy application rather than policy setting;
      (C)   Applications for approval, amendment, or extension of time of an
approval of a site plan considered by the Town Commission and Planning and
Zoning Board pursuant to §
7A-51 or §
7A-51.1 of this code, or other provision of law or code;
      (D)   Applications for plat approval (preliminary and final) pursuant to
Chapter 6A of this code or subdivision variance;
      (E)   Appeals heard by the Town Commission from a determination of the
Building Official, pursuant to §
3A-7 of this code, with regard to concurrency,
Chapter 3A of this code;
      (F)   Applications for the opening, diverting, narrowing, straightening,
vacation, or widening of any alley, street, public highway, right-of-way,
roadway or easement (preliminary and final) pursuant to this code or Chapters
166 or 177, Fla. Stat., or other provisions of law;
      (G)   Special exceptions heard by the Board of Adjustments;
      (H)   Approvals or variances for flood control pursuant to
Chapter 4A of this code;
      (I)   Coastal construction variances granted by the Board of Adjustment
pursuant to
Chapter 5A of this code;
      (J)   Appeals from determinations by the Building Official or the Zoning
Official to the Board of Adjustment or other person or body; and
      (K)   Outdoor display special permits.
      SITE VISIT. An inspection of real property subject to an application for
any quasi-judicial permit or appeal conducted by a Town official. The mere act
of driving by a site in the daily course of driving to a particular location,
such as work or a particular store, which act is not undertaken for the purpose
of inspecting a particular parcel of real property, is not a site visit for the
purposes of this section.
      TOWN OFFICIAL. A member of Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning
Board/Local Planning Agency, the Board of Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement
Board.
   (c)   Ex parte communications between Town officials and members of the
public.
      (1)   A member of the public not otherwise prohibited by statute, charter
provision or ordinance, may have an ex parte communication with any Town
official regarding any quasi- judicial matter on which action may be taken by
the Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency, the
Board of Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement Board; provided, that the Town
official adheres to the disclosure requirements set forth in the sub-section
(c)(3) below.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, charter provision, or
ordinance, any Town official may have an ex parte communication with any expert
witness or consultant regarding any quasi-judicial matter on which action may
be taken by the Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning
Agency, the Board of Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement Board; provided, that
the Town official adheres to the disclosure requirements set for in sub-section
(c) (3) below.
      (3)   Disclosure.
         (A)   The Town official shall disclose the occurrence of all ex parte
communications involving said Town official which relate to the quasi-judicial
application pending before the Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board/
Local Planning Agency, the Board of Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement Board.
         (B)   Disclosure of an ex parte communication. Disclosure shall occur
by no later than the commencement of the final public hearing on the quasi-
judicial application, or, if no formal public hearing is held, then at the
commencement of any hearing at which the final decision regarding the quasi-
judicial matter is made. The Town official shall disclose the ex parte
communication verbally or by memorandum. Any such memorandum disclosing the
occurrence of the ex parte communication shall be placed in the official file
regarding the pending quasi-judicial matter which file shall be maintained in
Town Hall. By no later than the commencement of the final hearing leading to a
final decision on the pending quasi-judicial matter by the Town Commission, the
Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency, the Board of Adjustment, or
the Code Enforcement Board, the memorandum shall be considered to be a part of
the record.
         (C)   At the time of disclosure, the Town official shall identify the
person group or entity with whom the ex parte communication took place, the
substance of the ex parte communication, and any matters discussed which are
material to said Town official's decision in the pending quasi-judicial matter.
   (d)   Oral or written communications between Town staff and Town officials.
Town officials may discuss quasi-judicial matters pending before the Town
Commission with Town staff.
   (e)   Site visits by Town officials. Any Town official may conduct a site
visit of any property related to a quasi-judicial matter pending before the
Town official’s board or commission; provided, that the Town official adheres
to the disclosure requirements set forth in sub-section (c)(3) above. Any
disclosure of a site visit pursuant to sub-section (c)(3) shall disclose the
existence of the site visit, and any information obtained by virtue of the site
visit considered by the Town official to be material to said official's
decision regarding the pending quasi-judicial matter.
   (f)   Review of mail, correspondence and written communications by town
officials. Any Town official may review mail, correspondence, or written
communications, related to a quasi-judicial matter pending before the Town
official’s board or commission. Promptly after review of the mail,
correspondence, or written communication, the document shall be placed in the
official file regarding the pending quasi-judicial matter and maintained at
Town Hall.
   (g)   Planning and zoning department file. All correspondence, mail, or
written communications reviewed by the Town officials prior to the final
hearing on a pending quasi- judicial matter shall be placed in the official
file regarding said matter and maintained at Town Hall. Said correspondence,
mail, or written communications reviewed by Town officials prior to the final
hearing on a pending quasi-judicial matter, or any disclosure memoranda as
described in sub-section (c)(3)(B), shall be available for public inspection.
By no later than the commencement of the final public hearing, or if no formal
public hearing is held, then at the commencement of any hearing at which the
final decision regarding the quasi-judicial matter is made, said
correspondence, mail, written communications, or other matters, and any
disclosure memoranda placed in the official file shall be considered to be a
part of the record. All of the foregoing documents shall be received as
evidence by the Town Commission, the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning
Agency, the Board of Adjustment, or the Code Enforcement Board, as applicable,
with the exception of disclosure memoranda, subject to any objections
interposed by participants at the hearing.
   (h)   Opportunity to comment upon substance of disclosure. At such hearing
at which a disclosure regarding an ex parte communication, receipt of an expert
opinion, site visit, or review of mail, correspondence, or other written
communications, becomes a part of the record, persons who may have opinions or
evidence contrary to those expressed in the ex parte communication, expert
opinion or mail, correspondence, or other written communication, or noted
during the site visit, shall be given a reasonable opportunity to refute or
respond to and provide contrasting information, evidence, or views.
(Ord. 98-04, passed 6-18-98; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-16-14; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 1A-8. – 1A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 2A: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
2A-1   Plan adopted by reference
   
2A-2 – 2A-14   Reserved
Article II. Local Planning Agency
   
2A-15   Authority
   
2A-16   Designation and establishment of local planning agency
   
2A-17   Duties and responsibilities of local planning agency
   
2A-18   Organization, rules and procedures of agency
   
2A-19   Public meetings and records
   
2A-20   Funding
   
2A-21 – 2A-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2A-1. PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development
Regulation Act, §§ 163.3161 et seq., Fla. Stat., the Town Comprehensive Plan,
as prepared by the Local Planning Agency, and including but not limited to:
goals, objectives and policies for eleven (11) elements, including an
introduction, a chapter relating to population of the Town, and the following
elements: coastal management; conservation; inter-governmental coordination;
capital improvements; infrastructure which includes provisions relating to
sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water and natural groundwater
aquifer recharge; housing; future land use; transportation; public school
facilities; recreation and open space and private property rights; 10-year
water supply facilities work plan sub element; the existing traffic circulation
map; the future land use map; and other maps and tables, and separate support
documentation all as adopted by Ordinance No. 88-01, adopted September 6, 1988;
as amended by Ordinance 95-03, adopted January 17, 1996; Ordinance 2010-05,
adopted June 16, 2010; Ordinance 2010-07, adopted October 20, 2010 and Ord.
2021-04 adopted April 20, 2022, are incorporated by reference and constitute
the official Comprehensive Plan for and of the Town.
(`75 Code, § 17.5-21) (Ord. 80-9, passed 6-24-80; Am. Ord. 88-01, passed 9-6-
88; Am. Ord. 95-03, passed 1-17-96; Am. Ord. 2010-05, adopted 6-16-10; Am. Ord.
2010-07, adopted 10-20-10; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2021-
04, adopted 4-20-22)
§§ 2A-2. – 2A-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. LOCAL PLANNING AGENCY
§ 2A-15. AUTHORITY.
   This article is enacted pursuant to and in accordance with provisions of §§
163.3161 et seq., Fla. Stat., the Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act
and Land Development Regulation Act.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(a)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 2A-16. DESIGNATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF LOCAL PLANNING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to, and in accordance with § 163.3174, Fla. Stat., the Planning and
Zoning Board is hereby designated and established as the Local Planning Agency
for the incorporated territory of the Town.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(b)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 2A-17. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL PLANNING AGENCY.
   Consistent with § 163.3174, Fla. Stat., the Local Planning Agency shall:
   (1)   Conduct the Comprehensive Planning program and prepare the
Comprehensive Plan or elements or portions thereof for the Town;
   (2)   Coordinate the Comprehensive Plan, elements or portions thereof with
the comprehensive plans of other appropriate local governments and the state;
   (3)   Recommend the Comprehensive Plan, elements, plan amendments, or
portions thereof to the Town Commission for adoption;
   (4)   Monitor and oversee the effectiveness and status of the Comprehensive
Plan and recommend to the Town Commission such changes in the Comprehensive
Plan as may be required from time to time, including the periodic evaluation
and appraisal of the comprehensive plan required by § 163.3191, Fla. Stat.;
   (5)   On an annual basis, review the performance of the Town's
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and determine if amendments are
necessary and report this to the Town Commission;
   (6)   Ensure public participation in all matters concerning the preparation,
review and implementation of the Comprehensive Plan occurs;
   (7)   Ensure provisions are made for notice to keep the general public
informed of planning activities; and
   (8)   Provide opportunities for the public to provide written comment on all
planning activities.
   (9)   Review proposed land development regulations, the Land Development
Code, or amendments thereto, and make recommendations to the governing body as
to the consistency of the proposal with the adopted Comprehensive Plan, or
element or portion thereof. Any recommendations as to consistency of a land
development regulation or development order with the Comprehensive Plan should
include a citation to the relative Comprehensive Plan goal, objective, or
policy and the particular element, together with any supporting documentation
or other evidence.
   (10)   Perform any other functions, duties, and responsibilities assigned to
it by the Town Commission or by general or special law.
The Local Planning Agency will simultaneously also function as provided by §
7A-136 of the Land Development Code.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(c)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 2A-18. ORGANIZATION, RULES AND PROCEDURES OF AGENCY.
   Members of the Local Planning Agency shall continue to be appointed and
follow such rules of procedure, methods of choosing officers, setting of public
meetings, providing of financial support and accomplishing its duties as
provided in the Town Charter or Code.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(d)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 2A-19. PUBLIC MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   All meetings of the Local Planning Agency shall be public meetings and all
agency records shall be public records. The Local Planning Agency shall
encourage public participation. The Local Planning Agency shall conduct all
public meetings with published agendas to encourage public participation in the
planning process, including consideration of amendments to the Comprehensive
Plan and evaluation and appraisal reports. Property owners will be put on
notice of public meetings concerning the annual review or proposed changes to
the Comprehensive Plan through advertisement in a newspaper of general
circulation or through direct mail circulation to real property owners.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(e)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76)
§ 2A-20. FUNDING.
   The Town Commission shall appropriate funds at its discretion to the Local
Planning Agency for expenses necessary in the conduct of its work. The Local
Planning Agency may, in order to accomplish the purposes and activities
required, expend all sums so appropriated and other sums made available for use
from fees, gifts, state or federal grants, state or federal loans and other
sources; however, acceptance of loans or grants must be approved by the Town
Commission.
(`75 Code, § 2-1(f)) (Ord. 76-2, passed 6-8-76; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§§ 2A-21. – 2A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 3A: CONCURRENCY
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
3A-1   Short title
   
3A-2   Definition
   
3A-3   Intent
   
3A-4   Applicability
   
3A-5   Application for concurrency evaluation
   
3A-6   Concurrency review
   
3A-7   Appeals
   
3A-8   Public facilities evaluated
   
3A-9   Exemptions
   
3A-10   Administration
   
3A-11 – 3A-19 Reserved
Article II. Transportation Criteria
   
3A-20   Transportation or road concurrency
   
3A-21 – 3A-39 Reserved
Article III. Sanitary Sewer Criteria
   
3A-40   Sanitary sewer concurrency
   
3A-41 – 3A-49 Reserved
Article IV. Potable Water Criteria
   
3A-50 Potable water concurrency
   
3A-51 – 3A-59 Reserved
Article V. Solid Waste Criteria
   
3A-60   Solid waste disposal concurrency
   
3A-61 – 3A-69 Reserved
Article VI. Parks/Recreation Criteria
   
3A-70   Parks/recreation concurrency
   
3A-71 – 3A-79 Reserved
Article VII. Drainage Criteria
   
3A-80   Drainage concurrency
   
3A-81 – 3A-89 Reserved
Article VIII. Statutory  Developer's Agreements
   
3A-90   General Intent
   
3A-91 – 3A-99 Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 3A-1. SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter of the Land Development Code shall be known as, and may be
cited as, the “Melbourne Beach Concurrency Ordinance.”
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-2. DEFINITION.
   DEVELOPER'S AGREEMENT. An agreement entered into pursuant to §§ 163.3220 et
seq., Fla. Stat., which the Town is a party to and that may assure construction
or provision of a Public Facility and Service.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-3. INTENT.
   (a)   The Town Commission finds that the safe, convenient and orderly flow
of vehicular traffic; the availability of adequate, convenient and accessible
park and recreational facilities; and the availability of safe and adequate
supplies of potable water, capacities of wastewater treatment facilities and
solid waste disposal facilities and stormwater management systems and retention
facilities is necessary for the health, safety, welfare, economic order,
aesthetics and convenience of the public. It is the intent of this chapter to
ensure that roadways, parks and recreation facilities, stormwater management
systems and retention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste
disposal facilities and potable water supplies are in place and adequate to
meet the levels of service set in the Comprehensive Plan so as to provide safe,
convenient and orderly services. It is the intent of this Chapter to implement
the goals, policies, objectives and standards of the Comprehensive Plan, which
provides specific standards and providing guidelines and procedures for the
implementation and enforcement of the standards. The Town Commission finds that
the safe, convenient and orderly furnishing of public facilities and services
will be achieved by the standards set forth herein. The Town Commission intends
that, by adopting the standards contained in this Chapter, the Town is
committing to adhere to and implement the requirements of the Comprehensive
Plan. Nothing in this Ordinance shall preclude the Town Commission or other
authority with the responsibility of issuing Development Orders from
considering traffic, roadway, recreational, open space, wastewater, potable
water, solid waste disposal, stormwater management system/retention or project
conditions not specifically addressed in this chapter or which are peculiar to
the location, size, configuration, use or relationship to the area of the
proposed project or the proposed project itself.
   (b)   The concurrency evaluation system shall measure the potential impact
of any proposed project or expansion to an existing project for which a
Development Order is required, upon the established minimum acceptable level of
service for a roadway, solid waste, potable water, drainage, wastewater
treatment or park/recreation public facility or service. The most current
available information and data regarding the above public facilities and
services operating levels of service shall, when reasonably possible, and
appropriate be utilized for concurrency evaluations. No Final Development Order
shall be approved unless adequate public facilities and services are available
as determined by the concurrency evaluation.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-4. APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided, this Ordinance shall apply to
all Development Orders.
   (b)   Previously-approved Development Orders.
      (1)   Existing Use. Any application for a Development Order on a parcel
of land which is presently occupied and creating a demand on public facilities
shall be subject to this chapter only for the portion of the new demand which
exceeds the demand of the existing use for public facilities as determined in
accordance with accepted engineering principles.
      (2)   Amendments to Development Order. Any Development Order amending a
previously approved Development Order shall have as a condition that the
requirements of this chapter shall be satisfied for any additional impacts in
excess of the previously approved Development Order.
      (3)   Development Orders. Any application for an amendment to a
Development Order which was issued after the effective date of this Code shall
be subject to this chapter for any additional impacts in excess of the original
Development Order.
   (c)   Non-applicability. This chapter shall not apply to the extent that any
vested right is found to exist pursuant to
Chapter 8A or as set forth herein.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-5. APPLICATION FOR CONCURRENCY EVALUATION.
   (a)   Non-binding concurrency evaluation prior to application for zoning,
special exception or variance. The owner or applicant for the owner may request
a non-binding concurrency evaluation prior to submitting an application for a
development permit. This application, along with a fee as may be established
from time to time by resolution of the Town Commission, shall contain the
following information and any other information which the Building Official
deems necessary in order to make the evaluation:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of owner of the property and
the applicant;
      (2)   Legal description and size of property in acres;
      (3)   Type of development permit requested;
      (4)   Boundary survey, if required; and
      (5)   Specific use with appropriate square footage or number of units.
   (b)   Binding concurrency evaluation prior to an application for site plan
approval, subdivision plat (preliminary and final) and a building permit. The
same procedure as outlined in (a) above shall apply and the following
Information shall be provided:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of owner of the property and
applicant;
      (2)   Legal description and size of property in acres;
      (3)   Type of development permit requested;
      (4)   Boundary survey;
      (5)   Specific use with square footage or number of units and phasing;
      (6)   Stormwater management plan; and
      (7)   Significant traffic impact study, if required by the Building
Official.
   (c)   Any application for a development permit must be consistent with the
information on which the concurrency evaluation was based. If the applicant
increases the intensity or density of the development project proposal during
any stage in the development approval process, a new concurrency evaluation
will be required. The applicant may choose to supply additional information and
the Building Official may request additional information in order to make a
concurrency determination.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-6. CONCURRENCY REVIEW.
   The Building Official shall, at the request of the applicant, issue a
concurrency evaluation finding of either non-deficiency or deficiency which
shall be binding for the following development permits: site plan approval,
subdivision plat (preliminary and final), and building permit. This evaluation
shall occur at the time of official submittal.
   (a)   Timeframe validity of concurrency evaluation finding of non-
deficiency.
      (1)   Site plan approval non-deficiency findings shall remain valid for
the life of the site plan according to the site plan approval process.
      (2)   Subdivision plat non-deficiency findings shall remain valid for the
total subdivision or a phase for which all required improvements have been
approved by the Town and are to be installed within a one-year timeframe.
      (3)   Building permit non-deficiency findings shall remain in effect
until the development has been completed or for the life of the building permit
as established by the Town. The building permit must be issued within 60 days
of the finding in order for the non-deficiency finding to remain valid.
   (b)   Concurrency evaluation findings.
      (1)   The Building Official shall use the concurrency evaluation
parameters for each of the six public facilities in determining if a proposed
project shall have either a non-deficiency finding or a deficiency finding.
      (2)   A non-deficiency finding shall be made if a proposed project is
determined to be non-deficient for all six public facilities.
      (3)   A deficiency finding shall be made if the proposed project is
deficient for any of the six public facilities. A deficiency finding shall
negate the issuance of a final development order or force deferral of the
issuance until a non-deficiency finding can be made.
   (c)   Cumulative records of level of service. The Town shall maintain
records of the level of service allocations permitted by the binding
concurrency evaluation procedure relative to the operating levels of service
for the previously mentioned public facilities for which the town is
responsible.
   (d)   DeMinimus project review. Upon receipt of an application for a final
development permit for a DeMinimus project, the Building Official may approve a
final development order after making a finding of non-deficiency.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-7. APPEALS.
   Appeals from the decisions of the Building Official with respect to
determinations made hereunder shall be taken to the Town Commission. Appeals
must be filed within 30 days of rendition of the concurrency evaluation finding
by the Building Official.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-8. PUBLIC FACILITIES EVALUATED.
   The Town shall use the following criteria (Ref. Articles II-VIII) to
determine whether levels of service are adequate to support the specific
impacts of a proposed development. This system is designed to utilize the most
recent and available data regarding roads, sanitary sewer, solid waste,
drainage, potable water, and parks and recreation.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-9 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of development are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter:
      (1)   Remodeling or repair, provided that no increase in square footage
is made;
      (2)   Accessory structures for existing single family homes that will not
increase the number of inhabitants of the structure;
      (3)   Other developments including DeMinimus projects which do not result
in any increase in demand upon established levels of service for public
facilities identified in this chapter, as determined by the Building Official.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 3A-10. ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Town Manager. The Town Manager may
develop such administrative rules, forms and/or applications as may be needed
to implement the concurrency Ordinance. The Town Manager shall be responsible
for maintaining the cumulative record of the level of service allocations
permitted under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-11. – 3A.19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. TRANSPORTATION CRITERIA
§ 3A-20. TRANSPORTATION OR ROAD CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   Capacity for transportation facilities shall be evaluated by using the
Florida Highway System Plan Level of Service Standards and Guidelines Manual,
prepared by the Florida Department of Transportation, January 1, 1989 or its
most current version.
   (b)   The transportation facility shall have the capacity to serve a
proposed development at the adopted level of service standards found in the
Traffic Circulation Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (c)   Projected impacts on the transportation facility shall be determined
by utilizing the trip generation standards set forth in the Brevard County
Impact Fee Equation. Any dispute involving the trip general standards of a
proposed development shall be settled by using the Institute of Transportation
Engineers, “Trip Generation Manual,” 4th Edition, or its most current version.
   (d)   Concurrency evaluation shall be measured at the ingress and egress
points to the accessing transportation link or segment.
   (e)   In determining the capacity of the transportation facility, it shall
be assumed that all projects funded for construction in the Capital
Improvements Program of the Town, as well as those funded and evidenced by
contract by county, state or federal agencies in their annual budgets, have
been completed and are a part of the system.
   (f)   If the proposed development accesses a state or county transportation
facility, the Town shall require an approval letter from Brevard County or the
Florida Department of Transportation that access will be approved upon
submittal of appropriate engineering and design exhibits for a driveway permit
or shall require the actual permit itself.
   (g)   The current operating level of service shall be based upon the most
recent average daily traffic counts available plus back ground traffic.
   (h)   The calculation of total traffic generated by a proposed non-
residential project will assume 100% build-out and occupancy of the project.
Credit against trip generation rates for certain non-residential uses may be
taken by utilizing the percentages shown below. Any capture of trips from
passing traffic for uses not listed below must be justified by the applicant's
use of accepted engineering principles.
Percent of Captured Trips From Passing Traffic
Use Percent
Percent of Captured Trips From Passing Traffic
Use                                         Percent
Shopping Centers, 100,000 – 400,000 sq. ft40
Less than 100,000 sq. ft.                   45
Supermarkets                                45
Hardware Stores                             30
Convenience Stores                          45
Fast Food Restaurants, Bars                 60
Restaurants                                 30
Financial Institutions                      50
Day Care Centers                            50
Service Stations/Carwashes                  60
Offices                                     5
Institutional                               0
 
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-21. – 3A-39. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. SANITARY SEWER CRITERIA
§ 3A-40. SANITARY SEWER CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   The Town shall require all applicants to obtain a Capacity Reservation
Certificate from Brevard County Utilities Department prior to issuance of a
final development permit approval. The Town shall maintain a copy of this
certificate on file.
   (b)   Capacity in the wastewater treatment facility shall be determined by
using the adopted minimum level of service standard of 92 gallons per person
per day.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-41. – 3A-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. POTABLE WATER CRITERIA
§ 3A-50. POTABLE WATER CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   The Town shall require all applicants to obtain a Capacity Reservation
Certificate from the City of Melbourne Water Department prior to the issuance
of a final development permit. The Town shall maintain a copy of the above
certificate on file.
   (b)   Capacity in the water treatment plant and the source of supply shall
be determined by using the adopted minimum level of service standard of 105
gallons per person per day.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-51. – 3A-59. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. SOLID WASTE CRITERIA
§ 3A-60. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   The Town shall require all applicants to obtain a capacity reservation
certificate from the Brevard County Utilities Department prior to the issuance
of a final development permit. The Town shall maintain a copy of this
certificate on file.
   (b)   Capacity in the solid waste facility shall be determined by using the
adopted minimum level of service standard of 7.7 pounds of solid waste per
person per day. This level of service standard shall increase to 8.9 pounds per
person per day of January 1, 1992, and to 10.4 pounds, on January 1, 2000.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-61. – 3A-69. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. PARKS/RECREATION CRITERIA
§ 3A-70. PARKS/RECREATION CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   The Town shall determine whether a proposed residential project meets
the adopted level of service standards contained below.
Radius of Development Influence
Park type Level of Service
Radius of Development Influence
Park type            Level of Service
Neighborhood Park    1.5 acres per 1,000 people 1 mile
Including:
Ballfields           1 per 2,000 people
Multi-purpose field  1 per 2,000 people
Handball/racquetball 1 per 4,000 people
Tennis courts        1 per 2,000 people
Shuffleboard         1 per 5,000 people
Playgrounds          1 per 4,000 people
Community Center     1 acre per 5,000 people 2 miles
Beach Access         1 per 500 people .5 mile
River Access         1 per 500 people .5 mile
 
   (b)   Exhibiting demand shall be computed by estimating the projected
population of existing constructed project and other permitted proposed
projects for which capacity has been reserved within the Radius of Development
Influence of a particular neighborhood park. The fractional acreage (rounded
downward to the nearest 1/10th or the facility type necessary to serve the
existing demand shall be computed.
   (c)   Capacity or need generated by a proposed project shall be determined
by ascertaining the projected population (2.3 person times the number of
units); and by using the adopted level of service standards, the necessary park
acreage or facility type needed to serve the proposed project shall be
computed.
   (d)   Existing design capacity for neighborhood parks and the community
facility types listed shall be computed and total existing demand for the
applicable facility types within the Radius of Development Influence shall be
subtracted therefrom to yield the existing capacity available. This figure
shall be used to compare with the demand from a proposed project in order to
determine if there is a deficiency in the level of service standards.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-71. – 3A-79. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. DRAINAGE CRITERIA
§ 3A-80. DRAINAGE CONCURRENCY.
   (a)   The Town shall require all applicants to obtain a permit or an
exemption letter from the St. Johns River Water Management District prior to
the issuance of a final development permit approval. The Town shall maintain a
copy of this certificate on file.
   (b)   Stormwater management facilities shall meet the adopted minimum level
of service standard of retention of the first 8 inches of runoff from a 10-
year/24-hour storm event.
   (c)   Single family residential lots within a subdivision which was platted
prior to January 1, 1990 are exempt from this requirement.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the exemption provided for in division 3A-80(c), any
new construction on any residential lot, any modification or renovation to any
existing residential structure on any residential lot of greater than 50% of
its appraised value and any regrading of any residential lot shall require
compliance with division 3A-80 (a) and (b).
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-06, adopted 1-15-20)
§§ 3A-81. – 3A-89. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. STATUTORY DEVELOPER'S AGREEMENTS
§ 3A-90. GENERAL INTENT.
   The Town Commission in its sole and exclusive discretion, may enter into
Developer's Agreements with the legal and equitable owners of parcels of land
within the Town limits, pursuant to §§ 163.3220 et seq., Fla. Stat., or
otherwise. The entry into a Developer's Agreement by the Town shall in no way
whatsoever limit or modify any legislative power by the Town to adopt
ordinances, resolutions, regulations or to make executive, administrative, or
legislative decisions of any kind which it had the power to make prior to the
entry of such Developer's Agreement, except to the degree that the Developer's
Agreement, by its express terms and not by implication, gives vested rights to
the said parcel of land owner, said owner's successor and assigns as to certain
development permissions, required improvements and similar matters. No
Developer's Agreement shall, by its express terms or by implication, limit the
right of the Town Commission to adopt ordinances, regulations or to adopt
policies that are of general application or specific as to the parcel of land
subject to the Developer's Agreement in the Town, except as is expressly
provided by Chapter 163, Fla. Stat., or said Developer's Agreement.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 3A-91. – 3A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 4A: BUILDINGS; FLOOD PROTECTION; COASTAL CONSTRUCTION
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
4A-1   Compliance
   
4A-2   Structural plans, inspections and reports for buildings over two stories
   
4A-3 – 4A-19   Reserved
Article II. Adoption of Building Codes
   
4A-20   Florida Building Code and the Florida Residential Building Code adopted
   
4A-21   Florida Existing Building Code adopted
   
4A-22 – 4A-34   Reserved
Article III. Building Permits
   
4A-35   State and county approvals for certain building permit applications
   
4A-36   Reserved
   
4A-37   Permit fees
   
4A-38 – 4A-49 Reserved
Article IV. Electrical Code
   
4A-50   Electrical Code adopted
   
4A-51 – 4A-59   Reserved
Article V. Standard Existing Buildings Code and Standard Unsafe Building
Abatement Code
   
4A-60 – 4A-62   Reserved
   
4A-63   Unsafe Building Abatement Code adopted
   
4A-64   Reserved
Article VI. Plumbing Code
   
4A-65   Plumbing Code adopted
   
4A-66 – 4A-80   Reserved
Article VII. Mechanical Code
   
4A-81   Mechanical Code adopted
   
4A-82   Reserved
Article VIII. Fuel Gas Code
   
4A-83   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
4A-84   Reserved
Article IX. Construction Requirements For Flood Protection
   
4A-85 – 4A-114   Repealed
Article X. Coastal Construction Code
   
4A-115   Title
   
4A-116   Purpose; conflicting provisions
   
4A-117   Application
   
4A-118   Compliance with requirements
   
4A-119   Definitions
   
4A-120   Existing structures
   
4A-121   Construction seaward of mean high water; exemptions
   
4A-122   Applications for building permits
   
4A-123   Structural requirements
   
4A-124   Location of construction
   
4A-125   Public access
   
4A-126   References
   
4A-127   Enforcement
   
4A-128 – 4A-139   Reserved
Article XI. Administration and Enforcement
   
4A-140   Office of Building Inspection
   
4A-141   Reserved
   
4A-142   Reserved
   
4A-143   Designating the Administrative and Enforcement Official
   
4A-144   Duties of Administrative Official, Board of Adjustment, Town
Commission and Court on matters of appeal
   
4A-145   Building permits
   
4A-146   Reserved
   
4A-147   Reserved
   
4A-148   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans, permits
and certificates of occupancy
   
4A-149 – 4A-169 Reserved
Article XII. Floodplain Management Code
   
4A-170   Administration - general
   
4A-171   Applicability
   
4A-172   Definitions; scope
   
4A-173   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator
   
4A-174   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator; substantial
improvement and substantial damage determinations
   
4A-175   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator; modifications of
the strict application of the requirements of the Florida Building Code
   
4A-176   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator; notices and orders
   
4A-177   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator; inspections
   
4A-178   Other duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
4A-179   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator; other floodplain
management records
   
4A-180   Permits required
   
4A-181   Permits; floodplain development permits or approvals
   
4A-182   Permits; buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code
   
4A-183   Permits; application for a permit or approval
   
4A-184   Permits; validity of permit or approval
   
4A-185   Permits; expiration
   
4A-186   Permits; suspension or revocation
   
4A-187   Other permits required
   
4A-188   Site plans and construction documents; information for development in
flood hazard areas
   
4A-189   Site plans and constructions documents; information in flood hazard
areas without base flood elevations (approximate Zone A)
   
4A-190   Site plans and constructions documents; additional analyses and
certifications
   
4A-191   Site plans and constructions documents; submission of additional data
   
4A-192   Inspections; general
   
4A-193   Inspections; development other than buildings and structures
   
4A-194   Inspections; buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the
Florida Building Code
   
4A-195   Inspections; buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the
Florida Building Code, lowest floor inspection
   
4A-196   Inspections; buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the
Florida Building Code, final inspection
   
4A-197   Inspections; manufactured homes
   
4A-198   Variances and appeals; general
   
4A-199   Appeals
   
4A-200   Variances; limitations on authority to grant variances
   
4A-201   Variances; restrictions in floodways
   
4A-202   Variances; historic buildings
   
4A-203   Variances; functionally dependent uses
   
4A-204   Variance; considerations for issuance of variances
   
4A-205   Standards for issuance of variances
   
4A-206   Violations
   
4A-207   Violations; authority
   
4A-208   Violations; unlawful continuance
   
4A-209   Flood resistant development; design and construction of buildings,
structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code
   
4A-210   Flood resistant development; buildings and structures seaward of the
coastal construction control line
   
4A-211   Flood resistant development; subdivisions; minimum requirements
   
4A-212   Flood resistant development; subdivision plats
   
4A-213   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; minimum requirements
   
4A-214   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; sanitary sewage facilities
   
4A-215   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; water supply facilities
   
4A-216   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; limitations on sites in regulatory floodways
   
4A-217   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; limitations on placement of fill
   
4A-218   Flood resistant development; site improvement, utilities, and
limitations; limitations on sites in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V)
   
4A-219   Manufactured homes; general
   
4A-220   Manufactured homes; foundations
   
4A-221   Manufactured homes; anchoring
   
4A-222   Manufactured homes; elevation
   
4A-223   Manufactured homes; enclosures
   
4A-224   Manufactured homes; utility equipment
   
4A-225   Recreational vehicles and park trailers; temporary placement
   
4A-226   Recreational vehicles and park trailers; permanent placement
   
4A-227   Tanks; underground tanks
   
4A-228   Tanks; above- ground tanks, not elevated
   
4A-229   Tanks; above- ground tanks, elevated
   
4A-230   Tanks; tank inlets and vents
   
4A-231   Other forms of development; general requirements for other development
   
4A-232   Other forms of development; fences in regulated floodways
   
4A-233   Other forms of development; retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways
in regulated floodways
   
4A-234   Other forms of development; roads and watercourses crossings in
regulated floodways
   
4A-235   Other forms of development; concrete slabs used as parking pads,
enclosure floors, landings, decks, walkways, patios and similar nonstructural
uses in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V)
   
4A-236   Other forms of development; decks and patios in coastal high hazard
areas (Zone V)
   
4A-237   Other development in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V)
   
4A-238   Other forms of development; nonstructural fill in coastal high hazard
areas (Zone V)
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4A-1. COMPLIANCE.
   All buildings which shall be erected, constructed or moved within the Town
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(`75 Code, § 9-1) (Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-2. STRUCTURAL PLANS, INSPECTIONS AND REPORTS FOR BUILDINGS OVER TWO
STORIES.
   In accordance with state law, contractor/ engineer requirements apply as
follows:
   (1)   All plans for building in excess of two stories or 28 feet in height
shall have structural drainage calculations prepared and sealed by a state
registered professional engineer. Two copies of signed and sealed structural
design calculations and explanatory notes shall be provided with construction
drainage upon application for a building permit.
   (2)   Any building in excess of two stories or 28 feet in height shall be
inspected by the structural engineer, or his designated representative and a
copy of the structural engineer's report filed with the Town building office
prior to or coincident with pouring of structural concrete. These inspections
should be performed at the same intervals as those of the building official and
with the building official present.
   (3)   Once plans are submitted for the purpose of obtaining a building
permit, no structural change may be made, either during the permitting or
construction process, without the Town receiving and having a record two copies
of signed and sealed revised plans; structural calculations shall be submitted
if applicable.
(`75 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 83-4, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-
17)
§§ 4A-3. – 4A-19. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES
§ 4A-20. FLORIDA BUILDING CODE AND THE FLORIDA RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Florida Building Code and the Florida Residential Building Code,
current editions as mandated by the Florida Legislature and published by the
Florida Building Commission, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein, as if fully set out.
   (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and
appeals for this code.
   (c)   Wind speed zones. The following wind speed zones are hereby
established for the entire Town:
      (1)   One hundred fifty (150) mph Vult for Risk Category I Buildings.
      (2)   One hundred sixty (160) mph Vult for Risk Category II Buildings.
      (3)   One hundred seventy (170) mph Vult for Risk Category III and IV
Buildings.
   (d)   Wind exposure categories. The following wind exposure category is
hereby established for the entire Town: Exposure “C.”
   (e)   Wind debris region. All of the Town is in the wind debris region.
   (f)   The following administrative amendments to the Florida Building Code,
Building, are hereby adopted.
Sec. 107.6.1, Florida Building Code, Building
      (1)   Add a new Sec. 107.6.1 as follows:
   107.6.1 Building permits issued on the basis of an affidavit. Pursuant to
the requirements of federal regulation for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. Sections 59 and 60), the authority granted to the
building official to issue permits, to rely on inspections, and to accept plans
and construction documents on the basis of affidavits and plans submitted
pursuant to Section 105.14 and Section 107.6, shall not extend to the flood
load and flood resistance construction requirements of the Florida Building
Code.
Sec. 117, Florida Building Code, Building
      (2)   Add a new Sec. 117 as follows:
   117 VARIANCES IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
   117.1 Flood hazard areas. Pursuant to section 553.73(5), Florida Statutes,
the variance procedures adopted in the local floodplain management regulations
in this code shall apply to requests submitted to the building official for
variances to the provisions of Section 1612.4 of the Florida Building Code,
Building or, as applicable, the provisions of R322 of the Florida Building
Code, Residential. This section shall not apply to Section 3109 of the Florida
Building Code, Building.
   (g)   The following technical amendments to the Florida Building Code,
Residential, are hereby adopted.
   R322.2.1 Elevation requirements.
      1.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas not designated as
Coastal A zones shall have the lowest floors elevated to or above the base
flood elevation plus 1.5 feet or the design flood elevation, whichever is
higher.
      2.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas designated as Coastal
A zones shall have the lowest floors elevated to or above the base flood
elevation plus 1 foot (305 mm), or to the design flood elevation, whichever is
higher.
      3.   In areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones), building and structures
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least as high as
the highest adjacent grade as the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM
plus 1.5 feet, or at least 3.5 feet if a depth number is not specified.
      4.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides shall be elevated
to or above the base floor elevation plus 1.5 feet or the design flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
      Exception: Enclosed areas below the design flood elevation, including
basements whose floors are not below grade on all sides, shall meet the
requirements of Section R322.2.2.
   R322.3.2 Elevation requirements.
      1.   All buildings and structures erected within coastal high-hazard
areas shall be elevated so that the lowest portion of all structural members
supporting the lowest floor, with the exception of mat or raft foundations,
piling, pile caps, columns, grade beams and bracing, is:
            1.1 Located at or above the base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet or
the design flood elevation, whichever is higher, if the lowest horizontal
structural member is oriented parallel to the direction of wave approach, where
parallel shall mean less than or equal to 20 degrees (0.35 rad) from the
direction of approach, or
            1.2 Located at the base flood elevation plus 2.5, or the design
flood elevation, whichever is higher. If the lowest horizontal structural
member is oriented perpendicular to the direction of wave approach, where
perpendicular shall mean greater than 20 degrees (0.35 rad) from the direction
of approach.
      2.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides prohibited.
      3.   The use of fill for structural support is prohibited.
      4.   Minor grading, and the placement of minor quantities of fill, shall
be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes under and around
buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios, and walkways.
      Exception: Walks and partitions enclosing areas below the design flood
elevation shall meet the requirements of Section R322.3.4 and R322.3.5.
   (h)   The following technical amendments to the Florida Building Code,
Building, is hereby adopted.
Sec. 1612.2. Florida Building Code, Building
   Modify a definition as follows:
   Substantial improvement. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a building or structure,
taking place during a 2-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or
exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the building or structure before the
improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the 2-year
period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that building
or structure subsequent to October 26, 1988. If the structure has incurred
"substantial damage," any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
         1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   (i)   The following technical amendments to the Florida Building Code,
Existing Building, is hereby adopted.
Sec. 202, Florida Building Code, Existing Building
   Modify a definition as follows:
   Substantial improvement. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a building or structure,
taking place during a 2-year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or
exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the building or structure before the
improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the 2-year
period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that building
or structure subsequent to October 26, 1988. If the structure has incurred
"substantial damage," any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing
health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official
and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
(`75 Code, § 9-3) (Ord. 74-2, passed 3-26-74; Am. Ord. 80-6, passed 4-22-80;
Am. Ord. 80-17, passed 11-11-80; Am. Ord. 83-4, passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. 92-10,
passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 98-03, passed 4-15-98;
Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-21. FLORIDA EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Florida Existing Building Code, most current edition, as mandated by the
Florida Legislature and published by the Florida Building Commission, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out.
   (a)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals for this code.
   (b)   Appendices B, C and D of the Florida Existing Building Code are hereby
adopted.
(Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-22.– 4A-34. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. BUILDING PERMITS
§ 4A-35. STATE AND COUNTY APPROVALS FOR CERTAIN BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for building permits requiring plan or other approvals by
the Florida Division of Hotels and Restaurants of the state shall be stamped,
sealed or signed by the duly authorized representative of the aforesaid
division. All applications for building permits requiring sanitary facilities
shall be accompanied by the approval of the County Health Department or the
County Utilities Department for sanitary connections.
(`75 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 74-2, passed 3-26-74; Am. Ord. 83-4, passed 8-23-83;
Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-36. RESERVED.
§ 4A-37. PERMIT FEES.
   The fee schedule for any permit to be issued pursuant to
Chapter 4A shall be provided by the Town Commission by resolution.
(Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-38. – 4A-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 4A-50. ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The National Electrical Code, NFPA 70, current edition as mandated by
the Florida Legislature and published by the National Fire Protection
Association, is hereby adopted by reference by the Town and incorporated herein
as if fully set out.
   (b)   The Electrical Inspector is hereby given the power to disconnect
extension cords, temporary wiring, branch circuits, sub-feed conductors, or the
main service supplying electrical energy to any portion of an electrical wiring
system on or in buildings, or on premises, if this wiring is in the opinion of
the inspector considered to be hazardous to life or property. Any person
supplying current must disconnect service from the source of supply upon
instructions from the Electrical Inspector where hazards are deemed to exist,
after receiving written notice from the Electrical Inspector.
   (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals for this code.
(Am. Ord. 92-11, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-02, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 2008-
03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-51. – 4A-59. RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. STANDARD EXISTING BUILDINGS CODE AND STANDARD UNSAFE BUILDING
ABATEMENT CODE
§§ 4A-60. – 4A-62. RESERVED.
§ 4A-63. UNSAFE BUILDING ABATEMENT CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code, 1985 edition, as
published by the Southern Building Congress International, Inc., shall be known
as a part of the "Town of Melbourne Beach Unsafe Building Abatement Code" and
is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein, as if fully set out.
The provisions thereof, shall be controlling within the Town, except to the
extent any such provision is in conflict with the Town charter or any Town
ordinance or provision therein. The Board of Adjustment as created in
Chapter 7A shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals for this code.
   (b)   Amendments to Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code. The Standard
Unsafe Building Abatement Code, 1985 edition, is hereby amended as follows:
   101.3. The provisions of this code shall apply to all unsafe buildings or
structures, as herein defined, and shall apply equally to new and existing
conditions. Any reference in this code to the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall refer to the Board of Adjustment as created in
Chapter 7A  of this code.
   101.4 Alteration, Repairs or Rehabilitation Work.
   101.4.1. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any
existing building. The Building Official shall determine, subject to appeal to
the Board of Adjustment the extent, if any, to which the existing building
shall be made to conform to the requirements of the applicable Florida Building
Code.
   302 Notice.  
   302.1.1 Content. The Building Official shall prepare and issue a notice of
unsafe building directed to the owner of record of the building or structure.
The notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   A statement advising that any person having any legal interest in
the property may appeal the notice by the Building Official to the Board of
Adjustment; and that such appeal shall be in writing in the form specified in
Section 401 and shall be filed with the Building Official within 30 days from
the date of the notice and that failure to appeal in the time specified will
constitute a waiver of all rights to an administrative hearing.
   302.2 Recording of Notice. If the notice is not complied with nor an appeal
filed within the allotted time, the Building Official shall file in the Office
of the Clerk of the Circuit Court a certificate describing the property and
certifying that the building or structure is unsafe and that the owner of
record has been served. This certificate shall remain on file until such time
as the conditions rendering the building or structure unsafe have been abated.
At such time, the Building Official shall file a new certificate indicating
that corrective action has been taken and the building or structure is no
longer unsafe from that condition.
   401 Right of Appeal.  
   401.1 Filing. Any person entitled to service in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 3 may appeal any action of the Building Official under
this code to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeal must be filed in writing with
the Building Official within 60 days from the date of service and must contain
at least the following information:
      1.   Identification of the building or structure concerned by street
address or legal description.
      2.   A statement identifying the legal interest of each appellant.
      3.   A statement identifying the specific order or section being
appealed.
      4.   A statement detailing the issues on which the appellant desires to
be heard.
      5.   The legal signature of all appellants and their official mailing
address.
(Ord. 96-01, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-64. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. PLUMBING CODE
§ 4A-65. PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Florida Plumbing Code, current edition as mandated by the Florida
Legislature, and published by the Florida Building Commission is hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out.
   (b)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals for this code.
   (c)   The following appendices of the Florida Plumbing Code are hereby
adopted: Appendix B, Appendix D, and Appendix E.
(Am. Ord. 92-10, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 98-
03, passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-66. – 4A-80. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. MECHANICAL CODE
§ 4A-81. MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Florida Mechanical Code, current edition as mandated by the
Florida Legislature, and published by the Florida Building Commission, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out.
   (b)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals for this code.
(Am. Ord. 92-10, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 98-
03, passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-82. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. FUEL GAS CODE
§ 4A-83. FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Florida Fuel Gas Code, current edition as mandated by the Florida
Legislature, and published by the Florida Building Commission, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out.
   (b)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals for this code.
   (c)   The following appendices of the Florida Fuel Gas Code are hereby
adopted: Appendix A and Appendix B.
(Am. Ord. 92-10, passed 1-20-93; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 98-
03, passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-84. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR FLOOD PROTECTION
§ 4A-85. – 4A-114. REPEALED.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-19-14)
ARTICLE X. COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 4A-115. TITLE.
   The provisions contained in this Article X. shall constitute the Coastal
Construction Code for construction within the Coastal Building Zone and coastal
barrier islands in the Town and shall be referred to as the Coastal Code.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-116. PURPOSE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (a)   The purpose of the Coastal Code is to provide minimum standards for
the design and construction of buildings and structures to reduce the harmful
effects of hurricanes and other natural disasters occurring along the coastal
areas of the Town which front on the Atlantic Ocean. These standards are
intended to specifically address design features which affect the structural
stability of the beach, dunes, and topography or adjacent properties. The
Coastal Code is site specific to the Coastal Building Zone and coastal barrier
islands as defined herein and is not applicable to other locations.
   (b)   In the event of a conflict between this Article X. and other
provisions of Land Development Code, the requirements resulting in more
restrictive design, and affording greater safety to the general public and
which will more strongly promote the purposes stated in §
4A-116(a), shall apply. No provisions in this Article shall be construed to
permit any construction in any area prohibited by local city, county, or state
regulation.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-117. APPLICATION.
   The requirements of this Coastal Code shall apply to the following types of
construction in the Coastal Building Zone and on coastal barrier islands in the
Town:
   (1)   The new construction of; or improvement to major structures,
nonhabitable major structures, and minor structures as defined in §
4A-119;
   (2)   Construction which would change or alter the character of the
shoreline (for example, excavation, grading, or paving). The Coastal Code does
not apply to minor work in the nature of normal beach cleaning or debris
removal.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-118. COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction within the Coastal Building Zone and on coastal barrier islands
shall meet the requirements of this Article X. All structures shall be designed
so as to minimize damage to life, property, and the natural environment.
Assistance in determining the design parameters to minimize such damage may be
found in the reference documents listed in §
4A-126.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-119. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREAKAWAY WALL or FRANGIBLE WALL. A partition independent of supporting
structural members that will withstand design wind forces, but will fail under
hydrostatic, wave, and runup forces associated with the design storm surge.
Under such conditions, the wall shall fail in a manner such that it breaks up
into components that will minimize the potential for damage to life or adjacent
property.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any work or activity which is likely to have a material
physical effect on existing coastal conditions or natural shore and inlet
preservation.
   MAJOR STRUCTURE. Residential buildings; commercial, institutional,
industrial and other construction having the potential for substantial impact
on coastal zones.
   MINOR STRUCTURE. Pile-supported, elevated dune and beach walkover
structures; beach access ramps and walkways; stairways; pile-supported elevated
viewing platforms, gazebos, and boardwalks; lifeguard support stands; public
and private bathhouses; sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, shuffleboard
courts, tennis courts, handball courts, racquetball courts, and other uncovered
paved areas; earth retaining walls; sand fences, privacy fences, ornamental
walls, ornamental garden structures, aviaries, and other ornamental
construction. It shall be a characteristic of minor structures that they are
considered to be expendable under design, wind, wave, and storm forces.
   NONHABITABLE MAJOR STRUCTURE. Swimming pools; parking garages; pipelines;
piers; canals, lakes, ditches, drainage structures, and other  water retention
structures; water and sewage treatment plants; electrical power plants,
transmission and distribution lines, transformer pads, vaults, and substations;
roads, bridges, streets, and highways; underground storage tanks;
communications buildings and towers; flagpoles and signs over 15 feet in
height.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds a cumulative total of 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
         a.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         b.   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not the alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a
structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 87-04, passed 3-10-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-120. EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   The requirements of this article shall not apply to existing structures,
structures under construction, or structures for which a valid and unexpired
municipal building permit was issued prior to the adoption of the Coastal Code,
except that any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either
before the improvement or repair is started; or, if the structure has been
damaged through means other than neglect and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-121. CONSTRUCTION SEAWARD OF MEAN HIGH WATER; EXEMPTIONS.
   Structures or construction extending seaward of the mean high water line
which are regulated by § 161.041, Fla. Stat. (for example groins, jetties,
moles, breakwaters, seawalls, revetments, beach nourishment, inlet dredging,
and the like), are specifically exempt from the provisions of this Article. In
addition, the Coastal Code does not apply to piers, pipelines, or outfalls
which are regulated pursuant to the provisions of § 161.053, Fla. Stat.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-122. APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Applications for building permits for all construction in the Coastal
Building Zone and on coastal barrier islands, if not of normal or usual design
as determined by the Building Official, shall be certified by an architect or
professional engineer registered in the state. Such certification shall state
that the design plans and specifications for the construction are in compliance
with the criteria established by this Coastal Code.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-123. STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Major structures.
      (1)   Major structures shall conform to the state minimum building code
in effect in the jurisdiction.
      (2)   Major structures shall also be designed, constructed, and located
in compliance with National Flood Insurance Program regulations as found in 44
C.F.R. Parts 59 and 60.
      (3)   Major structures shall, at a minimum be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Florida Building Code, utilizing a wind speed zone of 160
miles per hour three-second gust.
      (4)   Foundation design and construction of a major structure shall
consider all anticipated loads resulting from a 100-year storm event, including
wave, hydrostatic, and hydrodynamic loads acting simultaneously with live and
dead loads. Erosion computations for foundation design shall account for all
vertical and lateral erosion and scour-producing forces, including localized
scour due to the presence of structural components. Foundation design and
construction shall provide for adequate bearing capacity taking into
consideration the anticipated loss of soil above the design grade as a result
of localized scour. The erosion computations required by this division (a)(4)
do not apply landward of coastal construction control lines which have been
established or updated since June 30, 1980. Upon request, the Department of
Environmental Protection may provide information and guidance as to those areas
within the Coastal Building Zone where the erosion and scour of a 100-year
storm event is applicable.
   (b)   Nonhabitable major structures. Nonhabitable major structures need not
meet specific structural requirements provided in division (a) of this section
except for the requirements of division (a)(2) of this section and except for
applicable provisions of the state minimum building code in effect in the
jurisdiction. Such structures shall be designed to produce the minimum adverse
impact on the beach and dune system and shall comply with any applicable state
and local standards not found in this division. All sewage treatment plants and
public water supply systems shall be floodproofed to prevent infiltration of
surface water from a 100-year storm event. Underground utilities, excluding pad
transformers and vaults, shall be floodproofed to prevent Infiltration of
surface water from a 100-year storm event or shall otherwise be designed so as
to function when submerged by such storm event.
   (c)   Minor structures. Minor structures need not meet specific structural
requirements provided in division (a) of this section except for the
requirements of division (a)(2) of this section and except for applicable
provisions of the building code adopted in this
Chapter 4A or by virtue of Florida law, in effect in the Town. Such structures
shall be designed to produce the minimum adverse impact on the beach and dune
system and adjacent properties and to reduce the potential for water or wind-
blown material. Construction of a rigid coastal or shore protection structure
designed primarily to protect a minor structure shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 87-04, passed 3-10-87; Am. Ord. 2008-03,
adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-124. LOCATION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction, except for elevated walkways, lifeguard support stands, piers,
beach access ramps, gazebos and coastal or shore protection structures shall be
located a sufficient distance landward of the beach to permit natural shoreline
fluctuations and to preserve dune stability. Construction, including
excavation, may occur to the extent that the natural storm buffering and
protection capability of the dune is not diminished.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-125. PUBLIC ACCESS.
   Where the public has established an accessway through private lands to land
seaward of mean high tide or water line by any prescription, prescriptive
easement, or any other legal means, development or construction shall not
interfere with such right of access unless a comparable alternative accessway
is provided. The developer shall have the right to improve, consolidate or
relocate such public access ways so long as they are:
   (1)   Of substantially similar quality and convenience to the public;
   (2)   Approved by the Town and approved by the Department of Natural
Resources whenever improvements are involved seaward of the coastal
construction control line; and
   (3)   Consistent with the coastal management element of the comprehensive
plan adopted in
Chapter 2A of this Land Development Code.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 87-04, passed 3-10-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-126. REFERENCES.
   Assistance in determining the design parameters and methodologies necessary
to comply with the requirements of this article may be obtained from:
   (1)   Shore Protection Manual, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 4th Edition,
1984.
   (2)   U.S. Department of the Army, Coastal Engineering Research Center's
Technical Papers and Reports.
   (3)   Florida Department of Natural Resources, Division of Beaches and
Shores Technical and Design Memoranda.
   (4)   Naval Facilities Engineering Command Design Manual, NAVFAC DM-26, U.S.
Department of the Navy.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 2-25-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-127. ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the Code Enforcement
Board of the Town.
(Ord. 87-04, passed 3-10-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-128. – 4A-139. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 4A-140. OFFICE OF BUILDING INSPECTION.
   (a)   Administrator designated; duties generally. A department under the
Town Manager is hereby created to be designated as the Office of Building
Inspection. This department shall be administered by the Building Official. The
Building Official shall be responsible for performing the following duties for
the Town:
      (1)   Issuing and recording of building permits;
      (2)   Inspection of all phases of building construction; and
      (3)   Enforcement of provisions of the Land Development Code.
   (b)   Administrative arrangement. This department of the Office of Building
Inspection administratively shall be arranged as a department under the Town
Manager, and the Administrator of this department shall be directly responsible
to the Town Manager.
(`75 Code, § 9-1.1) (Ord. 77-3, passed 10-25-77; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 4A-141. RESERVED.
§ 4A-142. RESERVED.
§ 4A-143. DESIGNATING THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official, under the direction of the Town Manager, shall
administer the provisions of this Land Development Code, and the Code Inspector
shall initiate enforcement procedures in accordance with the Town Code when
violations of this Land Development Code exist. The Code Inspector(s) may
initiate enforcement procedures in accordance with § 489.127(3), Fla. Stat.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17))
§ 4A-144. DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, TOWN
COMMISSION AND COURT ON MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   It is the intent of this Land Development Code and the Comprehensive Plan
that all questions of interpretation and enforcement shall be subject to the
provisions of §§
7A-152 and
7A-171 of this Land Development Code.
(Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 99-02, passed 2-17-99; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17)
§ 4A-145. BUILDING PERMITS.
   (a)   If the application is for a commercial structure or an expansion of a
commercial structure, the applicant must follow additional procedures outlined
in §
7A-51. The Building Official can issue a building permit for commercial
structures only following procedures outlined in §
7A-51.
   (b)   All applications for building permits for any structure and its
accessory buildings, shall be accompanied by a scale drawing at a scale
acceptable to the Building Official, in duplicate showing the following:
      (1)   The actual dimensions and shape of the lot or lots to be built
upon, including the location and actual boundaries of abutting watercourses and
waterbodies;
      (2)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of the proposed buildings or
alterations;
      (4)   When applicable, the required parking spaces, loading and unloading
spaces, maneuvering space, and openings for ingress and egress;
      (5)   When applicable, grading and drainage plans showing any and all
cuts, fills, and provisions for adequately carrying off surface water on
premises, plus provisions for any surface water which would naturally flow over
or through the area;
      (6)   Such other information as lawfully may be required by the Building
Official, including existing or proposed building or alteration; existing or
proposed uses of the building and land; the number of families, housekeeping
units, or rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions
existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine
conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of this chapter; and
      (7)   Attach proof that he has secured compensation, required by § 440.10
(1), Fla. Stat., for his employees as provided under the state Workers'
Compensation laws.
   (c)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Official after he shall have marked such copy either as approved or
disapproved and attested same by his signature on such copy. The original,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the Building Official.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 3) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-9,
passed 5-22-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2008-03, adopted 4-19-
08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-146. RESERVED.
§ 4A-147. RESERVED.
§ 4A-148. CONSTRUCTION AND USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS,
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   Building permits or certificates issued on the basis of plans and approved
by the Building Official authorize the only permitted use, arrangement, and
construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized, shall be deemed a violation of this Land Development Code.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 7) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 4A-149. – 4A-169. RESERVED.
ARTICLE XII. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT CODE
§ 4A-170. ADMINISTRATION - GENERAL.
   (a)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Floodplain Management
Code of the Town of Melbourne Beach, hereinafter referred to as "this
floodplain management code."
   (b)   Scope. The provisions of this floodplain management code will apply to
all development that is wholly within or partially within any flood hazard
area, including but not limited to the subdivision of land; filling, grading,
and other site improvements and utility installations; construction,
alteration, remodeling, enlargement, improvement, replacement, repair,
relocation or demolition of buildings, structures, and facilities that are
exempt from the Florida Building Code; placement, installation, or replacement
of manufactured homes and manufactured buildings; installation or replacement
of tanks; placement of recreational vehicles; installation of swimming pools;
and any other development.
   (c)   Intent. The purposes of this floodplain management code and the flood
load and flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code
are to establish minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding
through regulation of development in flood hazard areas to:
      (1)   Minimize unnecessary disruption of commerce, access and public
service during times of flooding;
      (2)   Require the use of appropriate construction practices in order to
prevent or minimize future flood damage;
      (3)   Manage filling, grading, dredging, mining, paving, excavation,
drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials, and other development
which may increase flood damage or erosion potential;
      (4)   Manage the alteration of flood hazard areas, watercourses, and
shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial
functions of the floodplain;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public and private facilities and utilities;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas;
      (7)   Minimize the need for future expenditure of public funds for flood
control projects and response to and recovery from flood events; and
      (8)   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program for
community participation as set forth in Title 44 C.F.R. 59.22.
   (d)   Coordination with the Florida Building Code. This floodplain
management code is intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction with
the Florida Building Code. Where cited, ASCE 24 refers to the edition of the
standard that is referenced by the Florida Building Code.
   (e)   Warning. The degree of flood protection required by this article and
the Florida Building Code, as amended by this community, is considered the
minimum reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may
be increased by man-made or natural causes. This floodplain management code
does not imply that land outside of mapped special flood hazard areas, or that
uses permitted within such flood hazard areas, will be free from flooding or
flood damage. The flood hazard areas and base flood elevations contained in the
Flood Insurance Study and shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps and the
requirements of Title 44 C.F.R. 59 and 60 may be revised by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, requiring this community to revise these
regulations to remain eligible for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program. No guaranty of vested use, existing use, or future use is
implied or expressed by compliance with this floodplain management code.
   (f)   Disclaimer of liability. This floodplain management code does not
create liability on the part of the Town Commission of the Town or by any
officer or employee thereof, in their official or individual/personal
capacities, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this floodplain
management code or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-171. APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   General. In this article where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable.
   (b)   Areas to which this floodplain management code applies. This
floodplain management code will apply to all flood hazard areas within the
Town, as established in §
4A-171(c) of this floodplain management code.
   (c)   Basis for establishing flood hazard areas. The Flood Insurance Study
for Brevard County, Florida and Incorporated Areas dated March 17, 2014, and
all subsequent amendments and revisions, and the accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Maps (FIRM), and all subsequent amendments and revisions to such maps, are
adopted by reference as a part of this code and shall serve as the minimum
basis for establishing flood hazard areas. Studies and maps that establish
flood hazard areas are on file at the office of the Town building official.
   (d)   Submission of additional data to establish flood hazard areas. To
establish flood hazard areas and base flood elevations, pursuant to §§
4A-188 through
4A-191 of this floodplain management code the Floodplain Administrator may
require submission of additional data. Where field surveyed topography prepared
by a Florida licensed professional surveyor or digital topography accepted by
the community indicates that ground elevations:
      (1)   Are below the closest applicable base flood elevation, even in
areas not delineated as a special flood hazard area on a FIRM, the area shall
be considered as flood hazard area and subject to the requirements of this
floodplain management code and, as applicable, the requirements of the Florida
Building Code.
      (2)   Are above the closest applicable base flood elevation, the area
shall be regulated as special flood hazard area unless the applicant obtains a
letter of map change that removes the area from the special flood hazard area.
   (e)   Other laws. The provisions of this floodplain management code shall
not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
   (f)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This floodplain management code
supersedes any code in effect for management of development in flood hazard
areas. However, it is not intended to repeal or abrogate any existing code
including but not limited to land development regulations, zoning code
provisions, stormwater management regulations, or the Florida Building Code. In
the event of a conflict between this floodplain management code and any other
code provisions, the more restrictive shall govern. This floodplain management
code shall not impair any deed restriction, covenant or easement, but any land
that is subject to such interests shall also be governed by this article.
   (g)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this code,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-172. DEFINITIONS; SCOPE.
   (a)   Terms defined in the Florida Building Code. Where terms are not
defined in this floodplain management code and are defined in the Florida
Building Code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in that
code.
   (b)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined in this floodplain
management code or the Florida Building Code, such terms shall have ordinarily
accepted meanings such as the context implies.
   (c)   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and terms will,
for the purposes of the floodplain management code in this article, have the
meanings shown in this section.
      (1)   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel
relocation, change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-
sectional area of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of
modification which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
      (2)   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this floodplain management code or a request
for a variance.
      (3)   ASCE 24. A standard titled Flood Resistant Design and Construction
that is referenced by the Florida Building Code. ASCE 24 is developed and
published by the American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA.
      (4)   BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code,
Building, Section 1612.2. The base flood is commonly referred to as the "100-
year flood" or the "1-percent-annual chance flood."
      (5)   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the base flood, including
wave height, relative to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) or other datum specified on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM). This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code,
Building, Section 1612.2.
      (6)   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade
(below ground level) on all sides. This term is also defined in the Florida
Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (7)   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE. The line established by the
State of Florida pursuant to § 161.053, Fla. Stat., and recorded in the
official records of Brevard County, which defines that portion of the beach-
dune system subject to severe fluctuations based on a 100-year storm surge,
storm waves or other predictable weather conditions.
      (8)   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending
from offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS are also referred to as "high hazard areas
subject to high velocity wave action" or "V Zones" and are designated on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) as Zone V1-V30, VE, or V. Note: The Florida Building
Code, Building, defines and uses the term "flood hazard areas subject to high
velocity wave action" and the FBC, Residential, uses the term "coastal high
hazard areas."
      (9)   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of
flooding might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited
to schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use, or store hazardous material or
hazardous waste. The term includes facilities that are assigned Risk Category
III and Risk Category IV pursuant to the Florida Building Code, Building.
      (10)   DESIGN FLOOD. The flood associated with the greater of the
following two areas:
         (A)   Area with a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any year; or
         (B)   Area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (11)   DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the "design flood,"
including wave height, relative to the datum specified on the community's
legally designated flood hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO, the design
flood elevation will be the elevation of the highest existing grade of the
building's perimeter plus the depth number (in feet) specified on the flood
hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO where the depth number is not
specified on the map, the depth number will be taken as being equal to two
feet. This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (12)   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks,
temporary structures, temporary or permanent storage of equipment or materials,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations or
any other land disturbing activities.
      (13)   ENCROACHMENT. The placement of fill, excavation, buildings,
permanent structures or other development into a flood hazard area which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
      (14)   EXISTING BUILDING and EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any buildings and
structures for which the "start of construction" commenced before November 24,
1972. This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (15)   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before
November 24, 1972.
      (16)   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.
The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      (17)   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGE-MENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency
that, in addition to carrying out other functions, administers the National
Flood Insurance Program.
      (18)   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land from:
         (A)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
         (B)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (19)   FLOOD DAMAGE-RESISTANT MATERIALS. Any construction material
capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without
sustaining any damage that requires more than cosmetic repair. This term is
also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (20)   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  The greater of the following two areas:
         (A)   The area within a floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance
of flooding in any year.
         (B)   The area designated as a flood hazard area on the town's flood
hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (21)   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of the community
on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both special
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the town. This term
is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (22)   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency that contains the Flood Insurance Rate Map,
the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (if applicable), and the water surface
elevations of the base flood, and supporting technical data. This term is also
defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (23)   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The office or position designated and
charged with the administration and enforcement of this floodplain management
code (may be referred to as the Floodplain Manager).
      (24)   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT OR APPROVAL. An official document or
certificate issued by the Town, or other evidence of approval or concurrence,
which authorizes performance of specific development activities that are
located in flood hazard areas and that are determined to be compliant with this
floodplain management code.
      (25)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other riverine watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot. This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (26)   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the
impact that a proposed encroachment into a floodway is expected to have on the
floodway boundaries and base flood elevations; the evaluation shall be prepared
by a qualified Florida licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and
models.
      (27)   FLORIDA BUILDING CODE. The family of codes adopted by the Florida
Building Commission, including: Florida Building Code, Building; Florida
Building Code, Residential; Florida Building Code, Existing Building; Florida
Building Code, Mechanical; Florida Building Code, Plumbing; Florida Building
Code, Fuel Gas, all as adopted in §§
4A-20 through
4A-83 of this code.
      (28)   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, including only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary
for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and
ship repair facilities; the term does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
      (29)   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the
ground surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls or foundation
of a structure.
      (30)   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is determined eligible for
the exception to the flood hazard area requirements of the Florida Building
Code, Existing Building, Chapter 11 Historic Buildings.
      (31)   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by
FEMA that amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood
Insurance Study. Letters of Map Change include:
         LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
         LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data that
may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard area
boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
         LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the base flood
elevation and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard
area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been
permitted and placed in accordance with the Town's floodplain management
regulations.
         CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study; upon submission
and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may
be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
      (32)   LIGHT-DUTY TRUCK. As defined in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2, any motor
vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular weight rating or less which  has
a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle
frontal area of 45 square feet or less, which is:
         (A)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or
is a derivation of such a vehicle; or
         (B)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a
capacity of more than 12 persons; or
         (C)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-
highway operation and use.
      (33)   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area of a
building or structure, including basement, but excluding any unfinished or
flood-resistant enclosure, other than a basement, usable solely for vehicle
parking, building access or limited storage provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the non-elevation
requirements of the Florida Building Code or ASCE 24. This term is also defined
in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (34)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is eight feet or more in width and greater than 400 square
feet, and which is built on a permanent, integral chassis and is designed for
use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required
utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle"
or "park trailer." This term is also defined in rule 15C-1.0101, Florida
Administrative Code.
      (35)   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
      (36)   MARKET VALUE. The price at which a property will change hands
between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither party being under
compulsion to buy or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant
facts. As used in this floodplain management code, the term refers to the
market value of buildings and structures, excluding the land and other
improvements on the parcel. Market value may be established by a qualified
independent appraiser, actual cash value (replacement cost depreciated for age
and quality of construction), or tax assessment value adjusted to approximate
market value by a factor provided by the property appraiser.
      (37)   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of administration of this
floodplain management code and the flood resistant construction requirements of
the Florida Building Code, structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after November 24, 1972, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
      (38)   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum,
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after November
24, 1972.
      (39)   PARK TRAILER. A transportable unit which has a body width not
exceeding 14 feet and which is built on a single chassis and is designed to
provide seasonal or temporary living quarters when connected to utilities
necessary for operation of installed fixtures and appliances. This term is also
defined in § 320.01, Fla. Stat.
      (40)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle, including a park trailer, which
is:
         (A)   Built on a single chassis;
         (B)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
         (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
See § 320.01(1)(b), Fla. Stat.
      (41)   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or
mounds landward of the beach.
      (42)   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas
are shown on FIRMs as Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, V1-V30, VE or V. This
term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (43)   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  
         (A)   The date of issuance for new construction and substantial
improvements to existing structures, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement is within 180 days of the date of the issuance of a permit that
permits the start of construction. The actual start of construction means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a building (including a
manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, or the construction of columns.
         (B)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation (such
as clearing, grading, or filling), the installation of streets or walkways,
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, the erection of
temporary forms or the installation of accessory buildings such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main buildings. For a
substantial improvement, the actual "start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (44)   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a building
or structure whereby the cost of restoring the building or structure to its
before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
building or structure before the damage occurred. This term is also defined in
the Florida Building Code, Building, Section 1612.2.
      (45)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a building or
structure, taking place during a two-year period, the cumulative cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building or structure before
the improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the two-
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to October 26, 1988. If the structure has
incurred "substantial damage," any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (A)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         (B)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
This term is also defined in the Florida Building Code, Building, Section
1612.2.
      (46)   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this
floodplain management code, or the flood resistant construction requirements of
the Florida Building Code, which permits construction in a manner that would
not otherwise be permitted by this floodplain management code or the Florida
Building Code.
      (47)   WATERCOURSE. A river, creek, stream, channel or other topographic
feature in, on, through, or over which water flows at least periodically.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-173. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   Designation. The Building Official is designated as the Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator may delegate performance of certain
duties to other Town employees.
   (b)   General. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this floodplain management code. The
Floodplain Administrator has the authority to render interpretations of this
floodplain management code consistent with the intent and purpose of this
floodplain management code and may establish policies and procedures in order
to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies,
and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically
provided in this floodplain management code without the granting of a variance
pursuant to §§
4A-198 through 4A-205 of this code.
   (c)   Applications and permits. The Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with other pertinent offices of the community, will:
      (1)   Review applications and plans to determine whether proposed new
development will be located in flood hazard areas;
      (2)   Review applications for modification of any existing development in
flood hazard areas for compliance with the requirements of this floodplain
management code;
      (3)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries where such interpretation is
necessary to determine the exact location of boundaries; a person contesting
the determination shall have the opportunity to appeal the interpretation;
      (4)   Provide available flood elevation and flood hazard information;
      (5)   Determine whether additional flood hazard data will be obtained
from other sources or will be developed by an applicant;
      (6)   Review applications to determine whether proposed development will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (7)   Issue floodplain development permits or approvals for development
other than buildings and structures that are subject to the Florida Building
Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code, when compliance with this floodplain management code is
demonstrated, or disapprove the same in the event of noncompliance; and
      (8)   Coordinate with and provide comments to the Building Official to
assure that applications, plan reviews, and inspections for buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas comply with the applicable provisions of this
floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-174. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, will:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of "substantial improvement"; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
a substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code
and this floodplain management code is required.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-175. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; MODIFICATIONS OF
THE STRICT APPLICATION OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall review requests submitted to the Building
Official that seek approval to modify the strict application of the flood load
and flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code to
determine whether such requests require the granting of a variance pursuant to
§§
4A-198 through
4A-205 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-176. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; NOTICES AND
ORDERS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with appropriate local
agencies for the issuance of all necessary notices or orders to ensure
compliance with this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-177. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make the required inspections as
specified in §§
4A-192 through
4A-197 of this floodplain management code for development that is not subject
to the Florida Building Code, including buildings, structures and facilities
exempt from the Florida Building Code. The Floodplain Administrator will
inspect flood hazard areas to determine if development is undertaken without
the issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-178. OTHER DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall have other duties, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   Establish, in coordination with the Building Official, procedures
for administering and documenting determinations of substantial improvement and
substantial damage made pursuant to §
4A-174 of this floodplain management code;
      (2)   Require that applicants proposing alteration of a watercourse to
notify adjacent communities and the Florida Division of Emergency Management,
State Floodplain Management Office, and submit copies of such notifications to
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (3)   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data and
information necessary to maintain the Flood Insurance Rate Maps if the analyses
propose to change base flood elevations, flood hazard area boundaries, or
floodway designations; such submissions shall be made within six months of such
data becoming available;
      (4)   Review required design certifications and documentation of
elevations specified by this floodplain management code and the Florida
Building Code and this floodplain management code to determine that such
certifications and documentations are complete;
      (5)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of Melbourne Beach are modified; and
      (6)   Advise applicants for new buildings and structures, including
substantial improvements, that are located in any unit of the Coastal Barrier
Resources System established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-
348) and the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-591) that
federal flood insurance is not available on such construction; areas subject to
this limitation are identified on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as "Coastal Barrier
Resource System Areas" and "Otherwise Protected Areas."
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-179. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; OTHER FLOODPLAIN
MANAGEMENT RECORDS.
   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention of public
records, the Floodplain Administrator shall maintain and permanently keep and
make available for public inspection all records that are necessary for the
administration of this floodplain management code and the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code, including Flood
Insurance Rate Maps; Letters of Change; records of issuance of permits and
denial of permits; determinations of whether proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; required design
certifications and documentation of elevations specified by the Florida
Building Code and this floodplain management code; notifications to adjacent
communities, FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses;
assurances that the flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be
maintained; documentation related to appeals and variances, including
justification for issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken
pursuant to this floodplain management code and the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code. These records shall be
available for public inspection at the Town's code enforcement office.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-180. PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Any owner or owner's authorized agent (hereinafter "applicant") who intends
to undertake any development activity within the scope of this floodplain
management code, including but not limited to buildings, structures and
facilities exempt from or not subject to the Florida Building Code, and
development subject to the Florida Building Code, which is wholly within or
partially within any flood hazard area shall first make application to the
Floodplain Administrator, and the building official if applicable, and shall
obtain the required permit(s) and approval(s). No such permit or approval shall
be issued until compliance with the requirements of this floodplain management
code and all other applicable codes and regulations has been satisfied.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-181. PERMITS; FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS OR APPROVALS.
   Floodplain development permits or approvals shall be issued pursuant to this
floodplain management code for any development activities, such as development
subject to the Florida Building Code, grading permits, development activity
involving the rerouting of a stream, and other types of development activities
not subject to the requirements of the Florida Building Code, including
buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code.
Depending on the nature and extent of proposed development that includes a
building or structure, the Floodplain Administrator may determine that a
floodplain development permit or approval is required in addition to a building
permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-182. PERMITS; BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA
BUILDING CODE.
   Pursuant to the requirements of federal regulation for participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. Sections 59 and 60), floodplain
development permits or approvals shall be required for the following buildings,
structures and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code and
any further exemptions provided by law, which are subject to the requirements
of this floodplain management code:
      (1)   Railroads and ancillary facilities associated with the railroad.
      (2)   Nonresidential farm buildings on farms, as provided in § 604.50,
Fla. Stat.
      (3)   Temporary buildings or sheds used exclusively for construction
purposes.
      (4)   Mobile or modular structures used as temporary offices.
      (5)   Those structures or facilities of electric utilities, as defined in
§ 366.02, Fla. Stat., which are directly involved in the generation,
transmission, or distribution of electricity.
      (6)   Chickees constructed by the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida
or the Seminole Tribe of Florida. As used in this paragraph, the term CHICKEE
means an open-sided wooden hut that has a thatched roof of palm or palmetto or
other traditional materials, and that does not incorporate any electrical,
plumbing, or other non-wood features.
      (7)   Family mausoleums not exceeding 250 square feet in area which are
prefabricated and assembled on site or preassembled and delivered on site and
have walls, roofs, and a floor constructed of granite, marble, or reinforced
concrete.
      (8)   Temporary housing provided by the Department of Corrections to any
prisoner in the state correctional system.
      (9)   Structures identified in § 553.73(10)(k), Fla. Stat., are not
exempt from the Florida Building Code if such structures are located in flood
hazard areas established on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-183. PERMITS; APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT OR APPROVAL.
   To obtain a floodplain development permit or approval the applicant shall
first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the Town. The
information provided shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the permit
or approval;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
conducted by legal description, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the site;
      (3)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by a site plan or construction documents as
specified in §§
4A-188 through
4A-191 of this floodplain management code;
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work;
      (6)   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent; and
      (7)   Give such other data and information as required by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-184. PERMITS; VALIDITY OF PERMIT OR APPROVAL.
   The issuance of a floodplain development permit or approval pursuant to this
floodplain management code shall not be construed to be a permit for, or
approval of, any violation of this floodplain management code, the Florida
Building Codes, or any other code of the Town. The issuance of permits based on
submitted applications, construction documents, and information shall not
prevent the Floodplain Administrator from requiring the correction of errors
and omissions.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-185. PERMITS; EXPIRATION.
   A floodplain development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance,
or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days
after the work commences. Extensions for periods of not more than 180 days each
must be requested in writing and justifiable cause must be demonstrated by the
applicant.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-186. PERMITS; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to suspend or revoke a floodplain
development permit or approval if the permit was issued in error, on the basis
of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of this
floodplain management code or any other ordinance, regulation or requirement of
the Town.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-187. OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Floodplain development permits and building permits must include a condition
that all other applicable state or federal permits be obtained before
commencement of the permitted development, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   The St. Johns River Water Management District; § 373.036, Fla.
Stat.;
      (2)   Florida Department of Health for onsite sewage treatment and
disposal systems; § 381.0065, Fla. Stat. and Chapter 64E-6, Florida
Administrative Code;
      (3)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for construction,
reconstruction, changes, or physical activities for shore protection or other
activities seaward of the coastal construction control line; § 161.141, Fla.
Stat.;
      (4)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities
subject to the Joint Coastal Permit; § 161.055, Fla. Stat.;
      (5)   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities that
affect wetlands and alter surface water flows, in conjunction with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers; Section 404 of the Clean Water Act; and
      (6)   Federal permits and approvals.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-188. SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS; INFORMATION FOR DEVELOPMENT IN
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (a)   The site plan or construction documents for any development subject to
the requirements of this floodplain management code must be drawn to scale and
must include, as applicable to the proposed development:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zone(s), base flood elevation(s), and ground elevations if necessary for review
of the proposed development;
      (2)   Where base flood elevations or floodway data are not included on
the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, they shall be established in
accordance with §
4A-189(2) or (3) of this floodplain management code;
      (3)   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take place
will have more than 50 lots or is larger than five acres and the base flood
elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, such
elevations shall be established in accordance with §
4A-189(1) of this floodplain management code;
      (4)   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures; in coastal high hazard areas,
new buildings shall be located landward of the reach of mean high tide;
      (5)   Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any filling,
grading, or excavation;
      (6)   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; and evidence that the proposed fill areas
are the minimum necessary to achieve the intended purpose;
      (7)   Delineation of the Coastal Construction Control Line or notation
that the site is seaward of the coastal construction control line, if
applicable;
      (8)   Extent of any proposed alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands,
provided such alteration is approved by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection; and
      (9)   Existing and proposed alignment of any proposed alteration of a
watercourse.
   (b)   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the submission of
site plans, construction documents, and other data that are required by this
floodplain management code but that are not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the proposed
development is such that the review of such submissions is not necessary to
ascertain compliance with this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20- 17)
§ 4A-189. SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTIONS DOCUMENTS; INFORMATION IN FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS (APPROXIMATE ZONE A).
   Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the FIRM and base flood elevation
data have not been provided, the Floodplain Administrator will:
      (1)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data prepared
in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices.
      (2)   Obtain, review, and provide to applicants base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal or state agency or other source or
require the applicant to obtain and use base flood elevation and floodway data
available from a federal or state agency or other source.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation and floodway data are not available from
another source, where the available data are deemed by the Floodplain
Administrator to not reasonably reflect flooding conditions, or where the
available data are known to be scientifically or technically incorrect or
otherwise inadequate:
         (A)   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data
prepared in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices; or
         (B)   Specify that the base flood elevation is three and one-half feet
above the highest adjacent grade at the location of the development, provided
there is no evidence indicating flood depths have been or may be greater than
three and one-half feet.
      (4)   Where the base flood elevation data are to be used to support a
Letter of Map Change from FEMA, advise the applicant that the analyses shall be
prepared by a Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA, and that
it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the submittal
requirements and pay the processing fees.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-190. SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTIONS DOCUMENTS; ADDITIONAL ANALYSES AND
CERTIFICATIONS.
   As applicable to the location and nature of the proposed development
activity, and in addition to the requirements of this section, the applicant
will have the following analyses signed, sealed, and certified to and for
reliance by the Town by a Florida professional engineer licensed pursuant to
Chapter 471, Fla. Stat., for submission with the site plan and construction
documents:
      (1)   For development activities proposed to be located in a regulatory
floodway, a floodway encroachment analysis that demonstrates that the
encroachment of the proposed development will not cause any increase in base
flood elevations; where the applicant proposes to undertake development
activities that do increase base flood elevations, the applicant must submit
such analysis to FEMA as specified in §
4A-191 of this floodplain management code and must submit the Conditional
Letter of Map Revision, if issued by FEMA, with the site plan and construction
documents.
      (2)   For development activities proposed to be located in a riverine
flood hazard area for which base flood elevations are included in the Flood
Insurance Study or on the FIRM and floodways have not been designated,
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that demonstrate that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated flood hazard area encroachments, will not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point within the community. This
requirement does not apply in isolated flood hazard areas not connected to a
riverine flood hazard area or in flood hazard areas identified as Zone AO or
Zone AH on the FIRM.
      (3)   For alteration of a watercourse, an engineering analysis prepared
in accordance with standard engineering practices which demonstrates that the
flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse
will not be decreased, and certification that the altered watercourse shall be
maintained in a manner which preserves the channel's flood-carrying capacity;
the applicant must submit the analysis to FEMA as specified in §
4A-191 of this floodplain management code.
      (4)   For activities that propose to alter sand dunes or mangrove stands
in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), an engineering analysis that
demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the potential for
flood damage.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-191. SITE PLANS AND CONSTRUCTIONS DOCUMENTS; SUBMISSION OF ADDITIONAL
DATA.
   When additional hydrologic, hydraulic or other engineering data, studies,
and additional analyses are submitted to support an application, the applicant
has the right to seek a Letter of Map Change from FEMA to change the base flood
elevations, change floodway boundaries, or change boundaries of flood hazard
areas shown on FIRMs, and to submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The
analyses must be prepared by a Florida professional engineer licensed pursuant
to Chapter 471, Fla. Stat., in a format required by FEMA. Submittal
requirements and processing fees are to be the responsibility of the applicant.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-192. INSPECTIONS; GENERAL.
   Development for which a floodplain development permit or approval is
required are subject to inspection.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-193. INSPECTIONS; DEVELOPMENT OTHER THAN BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The Floodplain Administrator will inspect all development to determine
compliance with the requirements of this floodplain management code and the
conditions of issued floodplain development permits or approvals.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-194. INSPECTIONS; BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE
FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.
   The Floodplain Administrator will inspect buildings, structures and
facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code to determine compliance with
the requirements of this floodplain management code and the conditions of
issued floodplain development permits or approvals.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-195. INSPECTIONS; BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE
FLORIDA BUILDING CODE, LOWEST FLOOR INSPECTION.
   Upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further
vertical construction, the owner of a building, structure or facility exempt
from the Florida Building Code, or the owner's authorized agent, must submit to
the Floodplain Administrator:
      (1)   If a design flood elevation was used to determine the required
elevation of the lowest floor, the certification of elevation of the lowest
floor prepared and sealed by a Florida professional surveyor licensed pursuant
to Chapter 472, Fla. Stat.; or
      (2)   If the elevation used to determine the required elevation of the
lowest floor was determined in accordance with §
4A-189(3)(b) of this floodplain management code, the documentation of height of
the lowest floor above highest adjacent grade, prepared by the owner or the
owner's authorized agent.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-196. INSPECTIONS; BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE
FLORIDA BUILDING CODE, FINAL INSPECTION.
   As part of the final inspection, the owner or owner's authorized agent must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a final certification of elevation of
the lowest floor or final documentation of the height of the lowest floor above
the highest adjacent grade; such certifications and documentations must be
prepared as specified in §
4A-195 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-197. INSPECTION; MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The Floodplain Administrator will inspect manufactured homes that are
installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to determine compliance with the
requirements of this floodplain management code and the conditions of the
issued permit. Upon placement of a manufactured home, certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor shall be submitted to the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-198. VARIANCES AND APPEALS; GENERAL.
   The Board of Adjustment will hear and decide on requests for appeals and
requests for variances from the strict application of this floodplain
management code. Pursuant to § 553.73(5), Fla. Stat., the Board of Adjustment
will hear and decide on requests for appeals and requests for variances from
the strict application of the flood resistant construction requirements of the
Florida Building Code. This section does not apply to Section 3109 of the
Florida Building Code, Building.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-199. APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the administration and enforcement of this
floodplain management code. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board
of Adjustment may appeal such decision to a court as provided by the applicable
rules of judicial procedure.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-200. VARIANCES; LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES.
   The Board of Adjustment will base its decisions on variances on technical
justifications submitted by applicants, the considerations for issuance in §
4A-204 of this floodplain management code, the conditions of issuance set forth
in §
4A-205 of this floodplain management code, and the comments and recommendations
of the Floodplain Administrator and the Building Official. The Board of
Adjustment has the right to attach such conditions as it deems necessary to
further the purposes and objectives of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-201. VARIANCES; RESTRICTIONS IN FLOODWAYS.
   A variance will not be issued for any proposed development in a floodway if
any increase in base flood elevations would result, as evidenced by the
applicable analyses and certifications required in §
4A-190 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-202. VARIANCES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   A variance is authorized to be issued for the repair, improvement, or
rehabilitation of a historic building that is determined eligible for the
exception to the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida
Building Code, Existing Building, Chapter 11 Historic Buildings upon a
determination that the proposed repair, improvement, or rehabilitation will not
preclude the building's continued designation as a historic building and that
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the building. If the proposed work precludes the building's continued
designation as a historic building, a variance will not be granted and the
building and any repair, improvement, and rehabilitation will be subject to the
requirements of the Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-203. VARIANCES; FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or substantial
improvement necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, as
defined in this floodplain management code, provided the variance meets the
requirements of §
4A-201 is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, and all due
consideration has been given to use of methods and materials that minimize
flood damage during occurrence of the base flood.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-204. VARIANCE; CONSIDERATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF VARIANCES.
   In reviewing requests for variances, the Board of Adjustment must consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all other applicable
provisions of the Florida Building Code, this floodplain management code, and
the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents,
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development
to the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed
development that are subject to lower risk of flooding or erosion;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for the area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris
and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-205. STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF VARIANCES.
   Variances will be issued only upon:
      (1)   Submission by the applicant, of a showing of good and sufficient
cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography
of the site limit compliance with any provision of this floodplain management
code or the required elevation standards;
      (2)   Determination by the Board of Adjustment that:
         (A)   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship due to the physical characteristics of the land that render the lot
undevelopable; increased costs to satisfy the requirements or inconvenience do
not constitute hardship;
         (B)   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nor
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing local laws and floodplain management code; and
         (C)   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      (3)   Receipt of a signed statement by the applicant that the variance,
if granted, shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Court in such a
manner that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (4)   If the request is for a variance to allow construction of the
lowest floor of a new building, or substantial improvement of a building, below
the required elevation, a copy in the record of a written notice from the
Floodplain Administrator to the applicant for the variance, specifying the
difference between the base flood elevation and the proposed elevation of the
lowest floor, stating that the cost of federal flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation
(up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage), and stating that
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-206. VIOLATIONS.
   Any development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code
but that is regulated by this floodplain management code that is performed
without an issued permit, that is in conflict with an issued permit, or that
does not fully comply with this floodplain management code, will be deemed a
violation of this floodplain management code. A building or structure without
the documentation of elevation of the lowest floor, other required design
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this floodplain
management code or the Florida Building Code is presumed to be in violation
until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20- 17)
§ 4A-207. VIOLATIONS; AUTHORITY.
   For development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code
but that is regulated by this floodplain management code and that is determined
to be a violation, the Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve notices
of violation or stop work orders to owners of the property involved, to the
owner's agent, or to the person or persons performing the work.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-208. VIOLATIONS; UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
notice of violation or a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove or remedy a violation or unsafe condition, will
be subject to penalties as prescribed by law or § 1-99 of the Town code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-209. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS,
STRUCTURES AND FACILITIES EXEMPT FROM THE FLORIDA BUILDING CODE.
   Pursuant to §
4A-182 of this floodplain management code, buildings, structures, and
facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code, including
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage of such buildings,
structures and facilities, shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the flood load and flood resistant construction requirements of ASCE 24.
Structures exempt from the Florida Building Code that are not walled and roofed
buildings must comply with the requirements of §§
4A-231 through
4A-238 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-210. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES SEAWARD OF THE
COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE.
   If extending, in whole or in part, seaward of the coastal construction
control line and also located, in whole or in part, in a flood hazard area:
      (1)   Buildings and structures must be designed and constructed to comply
with the more restrictive applicable requirements of the Florida Building Code,
Building Section 3109 and Section 1612 or Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.
      (2)   Minor structures and non-habitable major structures as defined in §
161.54, Fla. Stat., must be designed and constructed to comply with the intent
and applicable provisions of this floodplain management code and ASCE 24.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-211. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SUBDIVISIONS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Subdivision proposals, including but not limited to proposals for
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall be reviewed to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths must be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-212. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Where any portion of proposed subdivisions, including but not limited to
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, lies within a flood hazard area, the
following shall be required:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zones, and design flood elevations, as appropriate, shall be shown on
preliminary plats;
      (2)   Where the subdivision has more than 50 lots or is larger than five
acres and base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM, the base flood
elevations determined in accordance with §
4A-189(1) of this floodplain management code; and
      (3)   Compliance with the site improvement and utilities requirements of
§§
4A-213 through
4A-218 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-213. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All proposed new development must be reviewed to determine that:
      (1)   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   All public service utilities and facilities, including but not
limited to sewer, gas, electric, communications, cable television, and water
systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths must be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures and junction boxes.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-214. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; SANITARY SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   All new and replacement sanitary sewage facilities, private sewage treatment
plants (including all pumping stations and collector systems), and on-site
waste disposal systems must be designed in accordance with the standards for
onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems in Chapter 64E-6, Florida
Administrative Code, and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the facilities and discharge from the
facilities into flood waters and impairment of the facilities and systems.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-215. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES.
   All new and replacement water supply facilities must be designed in
accordance with the water well construction standards in Chapter 62-532.500,
Florida Administrative Code, and ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-216. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; LIMITATIONS ON SITES IN REGULATORY FLOODWAYS.
   No development, including but not limited to site improvements, and land
disturbing activity involving fill or regrading, is authorized in the
regulatory floodway, unless the floodway encroachment analysis required in §
4A-190 of this floodplain management code demonstrates that the proposed
development or land disturbing activity will not result in any increase in the
base flood elevation.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-217. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; LIMITATIONS ON PLACEMENT OF FILL.
   Subject to the limitations of this floodplain management code, fill must be
designed to be stable under conditions of flooding including rapid rise and
rapid drawdown of floodwaters, prolonged inundation, and protection against
flood-related erosion and scour. In addition to these requirements, if intended
to support buildings and structures (Zone A only), fill must comply with the
requirements of the Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-218. FLOOD RESISTANT DEVELOPMENT; SITE IMPROVEMENT, UTILITIES, AND
LIMITATIONS; LIMITATIONS ON SITES IN COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONE V).
   In coastal high hazard areas, alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands
will be permitted only if such alteration is approved by the Florida Department
of Environmental Protection and only if the engineering analysis required by
this floodplain management code demonstrates that the proposed alteration will
not increase the potential for flood damage. Construction or restoration of
dunes under or around elevated buildings and structures must comply with §
4A-238(3) of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-219. MANUFACTURED HOMES; GENERAL.
   All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas must be installed by
an installer that is licensed pursuant to § 320.8249, Fla. Stat., and must
comply with the requirements of Chapter 15C-1, Florida Administrative Code, and
the requirements of this floodplain management code. If located seaward of the
coastal construction control line, all manufactured homes shall comply with the
more restrictive of the applicable requirements.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-220. MANUFACTURED HOMES; FOUNDATIONS.
   All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured homes installed in
flood hazard areas must be installed on permanent, reinforced foundations that:
      (1)   In flood hazard areas (Zone A) other than coastal high hazard
areas, are designed in accordance with the foundation requirements of the
Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 and this floodplain
management code.
      (2)   In coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), are designed in accordance
with the foundation requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.3 and this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-221. MANUFACTURED HOMES; ANCHORING.
   All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured homes must be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage and must be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring include, but are
not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
anchoring requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for wind resistance.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-222. MANUFACTURED HOMES; ELEVATION.
   (a)   Manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or substantially
improved must comply with §
4A-222(b) and (c) of this floodplain management code, as applicable.
   (b)   General elevation requirement. Unless subject to the requirements of §
4A-222(c) of this floodplain management code, all manufactured homes that are
placed, replaced, or substantially improved on sites located: (a) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision; (b) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; (c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or (d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a
flood, must be elevated such that the bottom of the frame is at or above the
elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida
Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A) or Section R322.3 (Zone V).
   (c)   Elevation requirement for certain existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions. Manufactured homes that are not subject to §
4A-222(b) of this floodplain management code, including manufactured homes that
are placed, replaced, or substantially improved on sites located in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, unless on a site where substantial
damage as a result of flooding has occurred, must be elevated such that either
the:
      (1)   Bottom of the frame of the manufactured home is at or above the
elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida
Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A) or Section R322.3 (Zone V);
or
      (2)   Bottom of the frame is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are not less than 36
inches in height above grade.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-223. MANUFACTURED HOMES; ENCLOSURES.
   Enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes must comply with the
requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322, for such
enclosed areas, as applicable to the flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-224. MANUFACTURED HOMES; UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
   Utility equipment that serves manufactured homes, including electric,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities, must comply with the requirements of the Florida Building
Code, Residential Section R322, as applicable to the flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-225. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND PARK TRAILERS; TEMPORARY PLACEMENT.
   Recreational vehicles and park trailers placed temporarily in flood hazard
areas must:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which means the
recreational vehicle or park model is on wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanent attachments such as additions, rooms, stairs, decks and
porches.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-226. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND PARK TRAILERS; PERMANENT PLACEMENT.
   Recreational vehicles and park trailers that do not meet the limitations in
§
4A-225 of this floodplain management code for temporary placement must meet the
requirements of §§
4A-219 through
4A-224 of this floodplain management code for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-227. TANKS; UNDERGROUND TANKS.
   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas must be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-228. TANKS; ABOVE-GROUND TANKS, NOT ELEVATED.
   Above-ground tanks that do not meet the elevation requirements of §
4A-229 of this floodplain management code must:
      (1)   Be permitted in flood hazard areas (Zone A) other than coastal high
hazard areas, provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
flood-borne debris.
      (2)   Not be permitted in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-229. TANKS; ABOVE-GROUND TANKS, ELEVATED.
   Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas must be attached to and elevated to
or above the design flood elevation on a supporting structure that is designed
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during conditions of the
design flood. Tank-supporting structures must meet the foundation requirements
of the applicable flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-230. TANKS; TANK INLETS AND VENTS.
   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents must be:
      (1)   At or above the design flood elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
      (2)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-231. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR OTHER
DEVELOPMENT.
   All development, including man-made changes to improved or unimproved real
estate for which specific provisions are not specified in this floodplain
management code or the Florida Building Code must:
      (1)   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   Meet the limitations of §
4A-216 of this floodplain management code if located in a regulated floodway;
      (3)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood;
      (4)   Be constructed of flood damage- resistant materials; and
      (5)   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the design
flood elevation, except that minimum electric service required to address life
safety and electric code requirements is permitted below the design flood
elevation provided it conforms to the provisions of the electrical part of
building code for wet locations.
      (6)   Critical facilities. Construction of new critical facilities that
are assigned Risk Category III and Risk Category IV pursuant to the Florida
Building Code, Building, shall be, to the extent possible, located outside the
0.2% annual chance floodplain.
Critical facilities constructed within a SFHA shall have the lowest floor
elevated three or more feet above the level of the base flood elevation at the
site. Flood proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displayed by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-232. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; FENCES IN REGULATED FLOODWAYS.
   Fences in regulated floodways that have the potential to block the passage
of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, must meet the
limitations of §
4A-216 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-233. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; RETAINING WALLS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
IN REGULATED FLOODWAYS.
   Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways must meet the limitations of §
4A-216 of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-234. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; ROADS AND WATERCOURSE CROSSINGS IN
REGULATED FLOODWAYS.
   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-
water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from
one side of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated
floodways must meet the limitations of §
4A-216 of this floodplain management code. Alteration of a watercourse that is
part of a road or watercourse crossing must meet the requirements of §
4A-190(3) of this floodplain management code.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-235. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; CONCRETE SLABS USED AS PARKING PADS,
ENCLOSURE FLOORS, LANDINGS, DECKS, WALKWAYS, PATIOS AND SIMILAR NONSTRUCTURAL
USES IN COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONE V).
   In coastal high hazard areas, concrete slabs used as parking pads, enclosure
floors, landings, decks, walkways, patios and similar nonstructural uses are
permitted beneath or adjacent to buildings and structures provided the concrete
slabs are designed and constructed to be:
      (1)   Structurally independent of the foundation system of the building
or structure;
      (2)   Frangible and not reinforced, so as to minimize debris during
flooding that is capable of causing significant damage to any structure; and
      (3)   Have a maximum slab thickness of not more than four inches.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-236. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; DECKS AND PATIOS IN COASTAL HIGH HAZARD
AREAS (ZONE V).
   In addition to the requirements of the Florida Building Code, in coastal
high hazard areas decks and patios must be located, designed, and constructed
in compliance with the following:
      (1)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure
must have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above the
design flood elevation and any supporting members that extend below the design
flood elevation must comply with the foundation requirements that apply to the
building or structure, which must be designed to accommodate any increased
loads resulting from the attached deck.
      (2)   A deck or patio that is located below the design flood elevation
must be structurally independent from buildings or structures and their
foundation systems, and must be designed and constructed either to remain
intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart into small
pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing structural
damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (3)   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of more than 12
inches or that is constructed with more than the minimum amount of fill
necessary for site drainage will not be approved, unless an analysis prepared
by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful diversion
of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase damage to
the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (4)   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of 12 inches or less
and that is at natural grade or on nonstructural fill material that is similar
to and compatible with local soils and is the minimum amount necessary for site
drainage may be approved without requiring analysis of the impact on diversion
of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-237. OTHER DEVELOPMENT IN COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONE V).
   In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than buildings
and structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the appropriate
federal, state, or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and
not structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses
prepared by qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities
include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters; and
      (3)   On-site sewage treatment and disposal systems defined in 64E-6.002,
Florida Administrative Code, as filled systems or mound systems.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 4A-238. OTHER FORMS OF DEVELOPMENT; NONSTRUCTURAL FILL IN COASTAL HIGH HAZARD
AREAS (ZONE V).
   In coastal high hazard areas:
      (1)   Nonstructural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than one
unit vertical to five units horizontal will be permitted only if an analysis
prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures.
      (2)   Where authorized by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection or applicable local approval, sand dune construction and restoration
of sand dunes under or around elevated buildings are permitted without
additional engineering analysis or certification of the diversion of floodwater
or wave runup and wave reflection if the scale and location of the dune work is
consistent with local beach-dune morphology, and the vertical clearance is
maintained between the top of the sand dune and the lowest horizontal
structural member of the building.
(Ord. 2014-01, adopted 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord.
2019-06, adopted 1-15-20)
CHAPTER 5A: COASTAL SETBACK REGULATIONS
Section
   
5A-1   Definitions
   
5A-2   Coastal setback line established
   
5A-3   Permitted structures
   
5A-4   Certain structures prohibited
   
5A-5   Relocation of lines
   
5A-6   Variances
   
5A-7   Exemptions
   
5A-8   Alternate remedies
   
5A-9   Penalty
   
5A-10 – 5A-99   Reserved
§ 5A-1. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HABITABLE MAJOR STRUCTURE. Houses or single-family residential buildings,
mobile homes, trailers, multiple-family residential buildings, condominiums,
motels, hotels, apartments, restaurants and other types of residential,
commercial or public buildings.
   MAJOR STRUCTURE. Houses or single-family residential buildings, mobile
homes, modular homes, trailers, multiple-family residential buildings,
condominiums, motels, hotels, apartments, restaurants, shops, towers and other
similar residential, commercial, industrial, recreational, or public buildings;
swimming pools, bathhouses, detached garages, utility buildings, septic tanks
and associated drain fields; package sewer and water plants; parking areas,
impervious paved areas; sewer, water, electric, telephone, television cable,
and other utility lines; storm drains; water retention areas; drainage
structures; private roads or streets and underground storage tanks.
   MINOR STRUCTURE. Dune and beach walkover structures; beach access ramps and
walkways; stallways; viewing platforms; gazebos; boardwalks; lifeguard support
stands; cantilevered decks or porches; sand fences; privacy fences; fishing or
ocean piers; and pipelines.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-2. COASTAL SETBACK LINE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established and exists a town coastal setback line, for all
property located within the Town. The coastal setback line shall be in the same
location as the Florida Coastal Construction Line as adopted on December 4,
1986 by the Department of Environmental Protection and described in Rule 62B-
26.017, Florida Administrative Code.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2008-02, adopted 3-19-08; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-3. PERMITTED STRUCTURES.
   Minor structures which are pile-supported and are elevated to a height
sufficient to permit maintenance of dune-stabilizing vegetation beneath the
minor structure may be constructed seaward of the costal setback line; provided
that all applicable federal, state (including the State Department of Natural
Resources), and Town zoning, building and construction codes and regulations
are satisfied.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-4. CERTAIN STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No major structures shall be constructed seaward of the coastal
setback line.
   (b)   No minor structures which are not pile supported and elevated to a
height sufficient to permit maintenance of dune-stabilizing vegetation growing
beneath the minor structure shall be constructed seaward of the coastal setback
line. (Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86)
   (c)   All excavations, including the removal or alteration of soil, sand, or
vegetation by digging, dredging, filling, drilling, cutting, scooping, or
hollowing out shall be prohibited seaward of the coastal setback line.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-5. RELOCATION OF LINES.
   The Town Commission hereby declares that as a result of anticipated long-
term coastline changes, due to storm events, beach erosion, dune damage, and
rising relative sea level, causing the coastline to continue to move landward,
it shall be the intent of the Town Commission to reconsider the location of the
coastal setback line from time to time as such coastline changes dictate the
necessity therefor.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-6. VARIANCES.
   (a)   Variances from the provisions of §§
5A-2 through
5A-4 may be granted by the Board of Adjustment of the Town, after a public
hearing, notwithstanding conflicting provision as to variances contained in
this Land Development Code, pursuant to the following criteria and Procedures:
      (1)   A fully completed application for a variance shall be submitted by
the property owner of record, or his authorized representative, to the Town
Clerk on a form provided by the Town. The application shall include, as a
minimum, the following information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant.
         b.   Street address of the Property, if available.
         c.   A statement describing the proposed work, activity, and
construction seaward of the coastal setback line.
         d.   A list of names and addresses or owners of all properties located
within 500 feet of the subject property.
         e.   A notice containing the aforementioned information shall be
posted by the applicant on the affected property at least 15 days prior to the
public hearing. If the property abuts a public road right-of-way, the notice
shall be posted in such a manner as to be visible from the road right-of-way.
An affidavit signed by the owner or applicant evidencing posting of the
affected real property shall be received by the Town Board of Adjustment, prior
to the public hearing.
         f.   Written approval of the applicant’s development plans by the
State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Beaches and Shores,
following submission by the applicant of the information necessary for the
agency to render such approval.
   (b)   The applicant shall also supply two copies of a topographic survey of
the subject property, prepared or verified for accuracy not more than six
months prior to the date of application and certified by a licensed
professional Florida surveyor and mapper registered in the state. The survey
must be prepared at the expense of the variance applicant with all applications
for a variance pursuant to this section. The survey must be certified to and
for reliance by the town. The topographic survey shall include the following
specific information:
      (1)   The location of the contour line corresponding to elevation zero
feet NGVD;
      (2)   The location of any existing vegetation line on the subject
property;
      (3)   The location of the established State Department of Environmental
Protection Coastal Construction Control Line and the mean high water line, for
the full width of the subject property, including the location and number of
the two nearest State Department of Environmental Protection's baseline
monuments.
   (c)   The applicant shall also submit two copies of detailed final
construction plans and specifications for all structures proposed to be
constructed seaward of the coastal setback line. These documents shall be
signed and sealed by a professional engineer or architect, as appropriate, who
must be registered in the state.
   (d)   The Board of Adjustment may grant the requested variance, after a
public hearing, in those cases where the facts presented at the public hearing
demonstrate the following:
      (1)   That the subject property experienced less than 25 feet of beach-
dune erosion since September, 1972. The erosion will be measured by determining
the extent of horizontal recession from the toe of the dune as it exists at the
time of application to the point at the dune as it existed in September, 1972,
which corresponds to the same elevation as the toe of the dune as it exists at
the time of application.
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not be injurious to adjacent
properties, nor contrary to the public interest.
   (e)   In the event the Board of Adjustment grants a requested variance, the
Board may attach to said variance such reasonable conditions as the Board deems
necessary to maintain the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (f)   In determining the extent of erosion experienced on the subject
property, and the extent to which the requested variance may be granted, the
Board of Adjustment shall take into account the recommendation or comments, if
any, of the State Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Beaches and
Coastal Systems; the historical seasonal fluctuations in erosion for the
subject property; and the certified topographical survey and other information
submitted by the applicant.
   (g)   General conditions of variance granted.
      (1)   With regard to any variance granted pursuant to this section after
August 1, 2012, if the rights authorized by a variance are not exercised within
730 days of the date of grant of such variance, they shall lapse and may be
reestablished only after notice, a new hearing, and an evaluation pursuant to
this section.
      (2)   All variances issued pursuant to this section are conditioned upon
the development depicted on the survey submitted pursuant to this subsection
and will not be applicable to or permit other development.
      (3)   In compliance with 44 CFR § 60.3(a)(2), all other applicable state
or federal permits must be obtained before the commencement of development.
   (h)   All other applicable federal, state and Town zoning, building,
planning and construction codes, rules and regulations shall be satisfied.
   (i)   A courtesy notice of the public hearing under this section shall be
mailed by the Board of Adjustment to all property owners within 500 feet of the
subject property, as listed in the application presented; provided, however,
that the failure to send or the fact that intended recipient may not have
received said notice shall not otherwise invalidate any action taken by the
Board of Adjustment hereunder.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2012-04, adopted 7-18-12)
   (j)   The provisions of §§
7A-151,
7A-154, and
7A-155 shall apply to proceedings for a variance under this
Chapter 5A.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-7. EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The setback provisions of §§
5A-2 through
5A-4 shall not apply to any structure for which a building permit has been
issued by the h Building Official, or for which a final site plan or a final
development plan has been submitted to or approved by the Town, prior to
January 20, 1986, the effective date of this chapter.
   (b)   The setback provisions of §§
5A-2 through
5A-4 shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any water service laterals which are not more than inch in
diameter.
      (2)   Basic 110 volt, 20 amp maximum, electrical service.
   (c)   The setback requirements defined in §
5A-2 shall not apply to any modification, maintenance or repair to any existing
structure within limits of the existing foundation which does not require,
involve or include any additions to, or repair or modification of; the existing
foundation of that structure. Specifically excluded from this exemption are
seawalls and any additions or enclosures added, constructed or installed below
the first dwelling floor or lowest deck of the existing structure.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-8. ALTERNATE REMEDIES.
   In addition to any other remedies, whether civil or criminal, for any
violation of this chapter by any person, the proper Town authorities may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding, including an injunction, in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 5A-9. PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60
days, or by both a fine and imprisonment. Each day upon which such violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 85-8, passed 1-20-86; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 5A-10. – 5A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 6A: SUBDIVISION
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
6A-1   Approval required prior to filing plats
   
6A-2 – 6A-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6A-1. APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO FILING PLATS.
   (a)   No person shall file for record or cause to be filed for record any
plat or map of a subdivision of any tract of land, or portion thereof located
within the Town whereby the tract or portion thereof is shown on the plat or
map to be subdivided into lots and blocks, either with or without street
rights-of-way, unless the plat or map, before filing for record, shall have
been submitted to the Town Commission and approved in regular session thereof.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to convey property by reference to a plat or map
of a subdivision of any tract of land, or portion thereof located within the
Town, unless the plat or map has been previously approved by the Town
Commission, or other governmental body having jurisdiction, and filed for
record.
   (c)   All plats or maps of the subdivision of any tract of land, or portion
thereof; submitted to the Town Commission shall be prepared consistent with the
regulations in Chapter 177, Fla. Stat., and of this Land Development Code.
(`75 Code, § 20-1) (Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 6A-2. – 6A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 7A: ZONING
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
7A-1   Short title
   
7A-2   Interpretation; application
   
7A-3   Definitions
   
7A-4 – 7A-14   Reserved
Article II. Districts and Boundaries
   
7A-15   Official zoning map
   
7A-16   Rules of interpretation of district boundaries
   
7A-17   Application of district regulations
   
7A-18 – 7A-29   Reserved
Article III. Zoning Districts
   
7A-30   District regulations established
   
7A-31   1-RS Single-Family Residential District
   
7A-32   2-RS Single-Family Residential District
   
7A-33   3-RS Single-Family Residential District
   
7A-34   4-RM Multi-Family Residential District
   
7A-35   5-RMO Oceanfront Multi-Family District
   
7A-36   6-B Downtown Business District
   
7A-37   7-C General Commercial District
   
7A-38   8-B Residential-Business Zone
   
7A-39   9-I Institutional District
   
7A-40   Churches, temples, places of worship, libraries, museums and schools in
Residential District
   
7A-41 – 7A-49 Reserved
Article IV. Supplementary District Regulations
   
7A-50   Off-street parking
   
7A-51   Site plan approval for Multi-Family Districts 4-RM and 5-RMO, 8-
B Residential-Business District, 6-B Downtown Business District, and 7-
C Commercial District and all uses structures approved by special exception
   
7A-51.1   Site plan approval for single-family residential zoning districts 1-
RS, 2-RS, and 3-RS
   
7A-52   Signs
   
7A-53   Fences and walls
   
7A-54   Redivision of lots
   
7A-55   Building construction
   
7A-56   Prohibiting certain commercial vehicles in residential districts
   
7A-57   Accessory structures
   
7A-58   Vision clearance at corners
   
7A-59   Exceptions to height regulations
   
7A-60   Structures to have access
   
7A-61   Establishments licensed to sell alcoholic beverages; location
   
7A-62   Home occupations
   
7A-62.1   Marijuana dispensaries
   
7A-63   Townhouse restrictions
   
7A-64   Animals; pets
   
7A-65   Breezeways
   
7A-66   Street endings
   
7A-67   Trailers, boats and recreational vehicles
   
7A-68   Satellite antennas
   
7A-69   Display of merchandise
   
7A-70   Federal and state elevation certificates and documentation
   
7A-71    Residential lighting
   
7A-72 – 7A-79   Reserved
Article V. Nonconforming Uses
   
7A-80   Intent
   
7A-81   Lots of record
   
7A-82   Uses of land
   
7A-83   Nonconforming structures
   
7A-84   Nonconforming uses of structures and premises in combination
   
7A-85   Nonconforming characteristic of use
   
7A-86   Repairs and maintenance
   
7A-87   Uses under special exception provisions
   
7A-88 – 7A-99   Reserved
Article VI. Amendments
   
7A-100   Regulations, restrictions, and boundaries may be amended
   
7A-101   Procedure
   
7A-102   Limitations
   
7A-103   Binding development agreements
   
7A-104   Reconsideration of district boundary changes
   
7A-105 – 7A-119   Reserved
Article VII. Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses
   
7A-120   Fees and charges
   
7A-121   Payment of fees, costs, and charges prior to Issuance of permits or
certificates
   
7A-122 – 7A-134   Reserved
Article VIII. Planning and Zoning Board
   
7A-135   Establishment; terms and membership
   
7A-136   Proceedings of Board
   
7A-137   Powers and duties
   
7A-138 – 7A-149   Reserved
Article IX. Board of Adjustment
   
7A-150   Establishment; terms and membership
   
7A-151   Proceedings of Board
   
7A-152   Powers and duties
   
7A-153   Hearings
   
7A-154   Decisions of Board
   
7A-155   Rehearings
   
7A-156   Informing Board of powers and duties
   
7A-157   Repealed
   
7A-158 – 7A-169   Reserved
Article X. Administration and Enforcement
   
7A-170   Designating the administrative and enforcement officials
   
7A-171   Duties of Administrative Official, Board of Adjustment, Town
Commission and courts on matters of appeal
   
7A-172   Complaints regarding violations
   
7A-173   Penalty
   
7A-174 – 7A-199   Reserved
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 7A-1. SHORT TITLE.
   This
Chapter 7A shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Code of the Town of
Melbourne Beach, Florida.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. I, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-2. INTERPRETATION; APPLICATION.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the protection of the public
health, safety, morals, and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this
chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive or those imposing the
higher standards, shall govern.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XV, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-3. DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure constructed or used for residence, business,
industry or other private or public purposes, including structures that are
accessory to such uses. BUILDING shall include, but not be limited to, single-
family dwellings, sheds, garages, carports, store rooms and other stationary
structures.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. II, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 76-3,
passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-4.– 7A-14. RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 7A-15. OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (a)   The Town is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon and as
amended by Ordinance No. 95-04, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this Land Development Code.
   (b)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor attested by the Town Clerk and shall bear the seal of the Town under the
following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map
referred to in the Land Development Code, together with the date of the
adoption of this Land Development Code. If, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and other applicable law, changes are made in district
boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes
shall be made on the official zoning map promptly after the Town Commission has
made a determination whether the proposed rezoning is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and the applicable Town Charter provisions regarding
rezoning approval. These changes will be recorded with an entry on the official
zoning map as follows:
      “On (date), by official action of the Town Commission, the following
change(s) were made in the Official Zoning Map: (brief description of nature of
change),” which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town
Clerk..
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. III, § 1)
   (c)   In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Town Commission may by resolution adopt a new official zoning
map which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official
zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the
Town Clerk, and shall bear the seal of the Town under the following words:
“This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the
Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of
the Land Development Code of the Town of Melbourne Beach, Florida.” Unless the
prior official zoning map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the
prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved
together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. III, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 95-04, passed 1-17-96; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 7A-16. RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following Town limits shall be
construed as following Town limits;
   (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such center lines;
   (5)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (1) through (4) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map;
   (6)   In cases where the actual location of physical features varies from
those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
by divisions (1) through (5) above, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the
district boundaries; and
   (7)   Where a district boundary divides a lot which was in single ownership
on September 26, 1972, the Board of Adjustment may permit, as a special
exception, the extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not
to exceed 30 feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the
lot.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. III, § 3) (Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-17. APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations established by this Land Development Code within each
district shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class
or kind of structure or land, except as hereinafter provided:
   (1)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and
no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (2)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      a.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families than is
permitted for by this chapter;
      b.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area than is permitted by this
chapter;
      c.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than is permitted by this Land Development Code; or
      d.   Which is in violation of this chapter.
   (3)   No part of a yard or other open space or off-street parking or loading
space required in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this Land Development Code, shall be included as part of a yard, open
space or off- street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (4)   No yard or lot existing on September 26, 1972 shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards or
lots created after said date shall meet the minimum requirements established by
this Land Development Code.
   (5)   Within each district, the regulations established by this Land
Development Code shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each
class or kind of structure, land, or water.
   (6)   Every building or structure hereafter erected shall be located on a
lot as defined herein. Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be on a lot adjacent to a public street, or with access to a public
street.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. IV) (Ord. passed 9-26-72)
   (7)   Unless provided for to the contrary by interlocal agreement, after an
area of unincorporated Brevard County has been annexed, county zoning and
subdivision regulations shall remain in full force and effect in said area
until the area is assigned an initial zoning classification by the Town
consistent with the town's Comprehensive Plan.
(Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-18. – 7A-29. RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 7A-30. DISTRICT REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   District regulations shall be set forth in the following sections, and as
set forth in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI) (Ord. passed 9-26-72)
   This following table is to provide general information regarding zoning
criteria, specific language included in each section of the Zoning Ordinance
takes precedence over this table.
1-RS, 2-RS, AND 3-RS SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONING CRITERIA
 
CRITERIA                                          Living              Minimum Yards (feet)
(1)             Lot            Lot                Area (min
         Lot    Width    Lot   Coverage  Minimum  sq ft
         Area   (min ft  Depth (max % by Pervious excluding Height
DISTRICT (min   at       (min  principal Area %   garage    (maximum) Front Side     Side   Rear
         sq ft) building ft)   structure per Lot  and                       Interior Corner
                line)          only)              porch)

1-RS     12,000 100      120   30        30       1,800     28        25    15       25     25
2-RS     11,250 90       100   30        30       1,600     28        25    15       25     25
3-RS     10,000 90       100   30        30       1,400(2)  28        25    15       25     25
(1)   Compliance with applicable supplementary regulations provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A is required.
(2)   One half of the garage area, not to exceed 200 square feet, excluding porches may be used
to meet minimum square footage requirements.
 
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-04, adopted 9-18-19)
§ 7A-31. 1-RS SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to an
area of low-density single- family residential development. Lot sizes and other
restrictions are intended to protect and promote high-quality residential
development.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Home occupations (See §
7A-62).
      (3)   Electric Utility Substation.
      (4)   K-12 Schools.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Structures clearly incidental and
subordinate to the principal use, such as: patios, private docks, swimming
pools, utility sheds, garages, playhouses and similar uses or structures.
   (d)   Special exceptions: Public recreation areas.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Grow house.
      (3)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 12,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 100 feet (at front building line).
Notwithstanding any provision of Article V,
Chapter 7A, specifically including §
7A-83(3) to the contrary, existing single-family dwellings and previously
permitted accessory structures built prior to September 26, 1972, shall be
grandfathered in and shall be allowed to be rebuilt in the event of a disaster.
Any such rebuilt single-family dwelling or accessory structures shall not
exceed the established footprint, number of stories, or increase any
nonconformity of the former single-familydwelling or accessory structures prior
to the disaster. If any structure subject to this section had less than a 5/12
roof pitch prior to disaster, the structure may be rebuilt with a roof pitch
not to exceed a 5/12 pitch, which shall not be deemed to increase any
nonconformity of the structure pursuant to §
7A-83(1). Otherwise, structures shall be rebuilt using no greater than
preexisting roof pitch.
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 120 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, principal structure, 30%.
      (5)   Minimum living area, 1,800 square feet excluding garages and
porches.
      (6) Maximum height of the building. Maximum height, 28 feet.
      (7)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior setback, 15 feet from lot line.
         c.   Side comer lot setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         e.   Ocean setback. No building or structure shall be constructed on
oceanfront property within the Town boundaries seaward of the coastal setback
line established pursuant to Chapter 5A. In addition to the structures
permitted in
Chapter 5A, beach access shall be permitted by an elevated boardwalk supported
on pilings with appropriate steps.
      (8)   No structure shall have more than two stories.
      (9)   Minimum pervious area percentage per lot, 30%. Lots failing to meet
the minimum pervious area percentage requirement on September 18, 2019 are
deemed to constitute a nonconforming character of use subject to Section
7A-85(b).
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-4,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord.
2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2014-08, adopted 10-29- 14; Am. Ord. 2016-
02, adopted 12-21-16; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-04,
adopted 9-18-19; Am. Ord. 2024-02, adopted 5-15- 24)
§ 7A-32. 2-RS SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to an
area of low-density single- family residential development. Lot sizes and other
restrictions are intended to protect and promote high-quality residential
development.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Home occupations (See §
7A-62).
      (3)   Electric Utility Substation.
      (4)   K-12 Schools.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Structures clearly incidental and
subordinate to the principal use, such as patios, private docks, swimming
pools, utility sheds, garages, playhouses and similar uses or structures.
   (d)   Special exceptions: Public recreation areas.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Grow house.
      (3)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 11,250 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 90 feet (at front building line).
Notwithstanding any provision of Article V,
Chapter 7A, specifically including §
7A-83(3) to the contrary, existing single-family dwellings and previously
permitted accessory structures built prior to September 26, 1972, shall be
grandfathered in and shall be allowed to be rebuilt in the event of a disaster.
Any such rebuilt single-family dwelling or accessory structures shall not
exceed the established footprint, number of stories, or increase any
nonconformity of the former single-family dwelling or accessory structures
prior to the disaster. If any structure subject to this section had less than a
5/12 roof pitch prior to disaster, the structure may be rebuilt with a roof
pitch not to exceed a 5/12 pitch, which shall not be deemed to increase any
nonconformity of the structure pursuant to §
7A-83(l). Otherwise, structures shall be rebuilt using no greater than
preexisting roof pitch.
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, principal structure, 30%.
      (5)   Minimum living area, 1,600 square feet excluding garages and
porches.
      (6) Maximum height of the building. Maximum height, 28 feet.
      (7)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior lot setback, 15 feet from lot line.
         c.   Side corner lot setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 25 feet from lot line.
      (8)   No structure shall have more than two stories.
      (9)   Minimum pervious area percentage per lot, 30%. Lots failing to meet
the minimum pervious area percentage requirement on September 18, 2019 are
deemed to constitute a nonconforming character of use subject to Section
7A-85(b).
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-4,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord.
2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-29- 14; Am. Ord. 2016-02,
adopted 12-21-16; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-04, adopted
9-18-19; Am. Ord. 2024-02, adopted 5-15- 24)
§ 7A-33. 3-RS SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to an
area of low-density single- family residential development. Lot sizes and other
restrictions are intended to protect and promote high-quality residential
development.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Home occupations (See §
7A-62).
      (3)   Electric Utility Substation.
      (4)   K-12 Schools.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Structures clearly incidental and
subordinate to the principal use, such as patios, private docks, swimming
pools, utility sheds, garages, playhouses and similar uses and structures.
   (d)   Special exceptions: Public recreation areas.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Grow house.
      (3)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 90 feet (at front building line).
Notwithstanding any provision of Article V, Chapter 7A, specifically including
§
7A-83(3) to the contrary, single-family dwellings and previously permitted
accessory structures located on lots that were divided before the year 2000
and/or built prior to September 26, 1972, shall be grandfathered in and shall
be allowed to be rebuilt in the event of a disaster. Any such rebuilt single-
family dwelling or accessory structures shall not exceed the established
footprint, number of stories, or increase any nonconformity of the former
single-family dwelling or accessory structures prior to the disaster. If any
structure subject to this section had less than a 5/12 roof pitch prior to
disaster, the structure may be rebuilt with a roof pitch not to exceed a 5/12
pitch, which shall not be deemed to increase any nonconformity of the structure
pursuant to §
7A-83(l). Otherwise, structures shall be rebuilt using no greater than
preexisting roof pitch.
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, principal structure, 30%.
      (5)   Minimum living area, 1,400 square feet including one-half of the
garage area not to exceed 200 square feet, excluding porches.
      (6)   Maximum height of the building. Maximum height, 28 feet.
      (7)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior lot setback, 15 feet from lot line.
         c.   Side corner lot setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 25 feet from lot line.
      (8)   No structure shall have more than two stories.
      (9)   Minimum pervious area percentage per lot, 30%. Lots failing to meet
the minimum pervious area percentage requirement on September 18, 2019 are
deemed to constitute a non-conforming character of use subject to Section
7A-85(b).
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 3) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-4,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord.
2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-29- 14; Am. Ord. 2016-02,
adopted 12-21-16; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-04, adopted
9-18-19; Am. Ord. 2024-02, adopted 5-15- 24)
§ 7A-34. 4-RM MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to an
area of medium-density residential development with a variety of housing types.
Lot sizes and other restrictions are intended to promote and protect medium-
density residential development while preserving adequate open space and
ensuring compatibility with other residential areas of the community.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Multi-family residences.
      (2)   Single-family residences (provided such residences meet the
following 1-RS Single- Family Residential District requirements).
 
CRITERIA                                  Living              Minimum Yards (feet)
(*)             Lot            Lot        Area (min
         Lot    Width    Lot   Coverage   sq ft
         Area   (min ft  Depth (max % by  excluding Height
DISTRICT (min   at       (min  principal  garage    (maximum) Front Side     Side   Rear
         sq ft) building ft)   structure) and                       Interior Corner
                line)                     porch)

1-RS     12,000 100      120   30         1,800     28        25    15       25     25
(*)   Compliance with applicable supplementary regulations provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A is required.
 
      (3)   Townhouses (See §
7A-63).
      (4)   Home occupations (See §
7A-62).
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses clearly
incidental and subordinate to the principal use and in keeping with the intent
and purpose of the district.
   (d)   Special exceptions: Public recreation areas.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Grow house.
      (3)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   Rental units rented for periods of less than one month.
      (5)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 12,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum density, six dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   Minimum lot width, 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot depth, 120 feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage, 40%.
      (6)   Minimum living area, 1,300 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (7)   Maximum height of building. Maximum height, 28 feet.
      (8)   No structure shall have more than two stories.
      (9)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior setback, 15 feet from lot line.
         c.   Side corner setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 25 feet from lot line.
      (10)   Minimum distance between structures, 15 feet.
   (g)   Landscaping regulations: Front and side yard setbacks, excluding
parking areas and driveways, shall be landscaped with ground cover, trees, and
shrubs; other decorative arrangements may be acceptable. Uncovered parking
areas shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs. Except for driveways, the
areas abutting the street right-of- way from the curb to the property line
shall be landscaped and maintained by the owner. However, in no case shall the
area landscaped be less than 33% of the total lot area, not including the
rights-of-way.
   (h)   Supplementary regulations: As provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A.
   (i)   Where a lot is developed and the rear or side yard abuts a lot
developed as a single-family, detached residential dwelling, or abuts a
developed or undeveloped lot within the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS single-family
residential zoning district, a nonsolid wall, or fence six (6) feet in height,
shall be constructed on or parallel to that rear or side lot line. Not less
than 25% of the total surface area of the wall shall allow the free-flowing
passage of air while still serving as a visual barrier. The wall shall be
erected by the owner of the 4-RM zoned property. The fence or wall shall be
constructed as follows:
      (1)   Materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of long-lasting,
durable materials, such as precast or poured concrete, concrete block,
composite hardboard (Hardi-board or Hardi Plank), or recycled plastics. Fences
or walls of sheet, link or corrugated iron, steel, or concertina wire, PVC,
pressure treated woods, non-treated woods, and aluminum are prohibited. Barbed
wire shall not be constructed or placed on top of a fence.
         a.   Where concrete materials are used, dyes, tints, patterns or
textures may be added to mitigate any "plain concrete" appearance.
         b.   To change the appearance of an "unbroken, monotonous blank wall",
it is encouraged that walls or fences be divided into discrete sections no more
than 10 feet in length, by columns, pilings, posts, architectural detail, or a
change in orientation, texture, pattern, materials or color.
      (2)   The six (6) foot wall or fence shall extend the full length of the
adjoining residential property; however, forward of the front building line of
an adjoining residential lot, the fence or wall shall be no higher than four
(4) feet.
      (3)   The wall or fence shall comply with all Town Code requirements for
vision clearance at corners and curb lots.
      (4)   Maintenance. Fences and walls shall be continuously maintained by
the owner of the 4-RM property in an orderly and good condition, at no more
than their maximum allowed height.
      (5)   With regard to lots that are developed on or before May 1, 2012,
the wall or fence will be constructed by the property owner when the use of the
property is changed or the existing use is substantially redeveloped. For the
purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
         a.   Change of use shall mean a change from the use existing to any
other use.
         b.   Substantially redeveloped shall mean any increase in size, square
footage, height, coverage or intensity of the use or any structure associated
with the use, or the replacement or renovation the cost of which represents
greater than 30% of the assessed value of the structures on the property as
recorded in the most recent records of the property appraiser.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 4) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-4,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord.
2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am. Ord. 2014-08,
adopted 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-35. 5-RMO OCEANFRONT MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to
certain areas adjacent to the ocean (between Atlantic Street and the ocean).
Restrictions herein are intended to ensure the preservation of the natural
features of the area. Lot sizes and other restrictions provide for medium-
density, multi-family residential development compatible with the preservation
of amenities associated with oceanfront property.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Multi-family residences.
      (2)   Single-family residences (provided such residences meet the
following 1-RS Single-Family Residential District requirements).
 
CRITERIA                                  Living              Minimum Yards (feet)
(*)             Lot            Lot        Area (min
         Lot    Width    Lot   Coverage   sq ft
         Area   (min ft  Depth (max % by  excluding Height
DISTRICT (min   at       (min  principal  garage    (maximum) Front Side     Side   Rear
         sq ft) building ft)   structure) and                       Interior Corner
                line)                     porch)

1-RS     12,000 100      120   30         1,800     28        25    15       25     25
(*)   Compliance with applicable supplementary regulations provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A is required.
 
      (3)   Townhouses (See §
7A-63).
      (4)   Government-operated parks and beaches.
      (5)   Electric Utility Substations.
      (6)   K-12 Schools.
      (7)   Home occupations (See §
7A-62).
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses clearly
incidental and subordinate to the principal use and in keeping with the intent
and purpose of the district.
   (d)   Special exceptions: Public recreation areas.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (2)   Grow house.
      (3)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   Rental units rented for periods of less than one month.
      (5)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks: Gross lot area
shall be determined by using the bluff line as the easterly boundary line.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 12,000 square feet.
      (2)   Maximum density, six dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   Minimum lot width, 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot depth, 120 feet (from front lot line to ocean bluff
line).
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage, 40%.
      (6)   Maximum building length, 150 feet.
      (7)   Minimum living area, 1,300 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (8)   Maximum height of the building. Maximum height, 28 feet and no more
than 2 stories.
      (9)   Structures built within the 5-RMO zoning district that exceed 28
feet in height and are three stories may be reconstructed in the event of any
involuntary catastrophic destruction subject to the following:
         a.   No building or structure shall exceed 36 feet regardless of the
originally approved or constructed height.
         b.   No structure shall exceed the originally approved height as
demonstrated by an approved building permit or other substantial evidence
provided by the property owner.
         c.   Upon reconstruction that results in a building height lower than
originally approved, any future reconstruction that becomes necessary, for any
reason, shall not exceed the height of the most recent reconstruction or 28
feet, whichever is greater.
         d.   If a building permit or other substantial evidence documenting
that the destroyed building exceeded 28 feet in height is not provided, then
the maximum height of any reconstructed building shall be 28 feet.
         e.   Notwithstanding §
7A-35(f)(8) above, if the originally approved building permit or other
substantial evidence provided documents that the building included three
stories then the reconstructed building shall be allowed to have three stories.
      (10)   Minimum yard requirement
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from the lot line.
         b.   Side setback, 25% of frontage shall be kept clear as a breezeway
from the ocean. In no case shall any side setback be less than 12½ feet.
         c.   Ocean setback. No building or structure shall be constructed on
oceanfront property within the Town boundaries seaward of the coastal setback
line established pursuant to
Chapter 5A. In addition to the structures permitted in
Chapter 5A, beach access shall be permitted by an elevated boardwalk supported
on pilings with appropriate steps.
      (11)   Minimum distance between structures, 15 feet.
   (g)   Landscaping regulations: Front and side yard setbacks (excluding
parking areas and driveways) shall be landscaped with ground cover, trees, and
shrubs; other decorative arrangements such as rock gardens, walkways, dwarf
trees, cobble, brick, and substantially similar arrangements may be acceptable.
Uncovered parking areas shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs. Except for
driveways the areas abutting the street rights-of-way shall be landscaped to a
depth of seven feet; the rights-of-way from the curb to the property line may
be landscaped and maintained at the owner's option. However, in no case shall
the area landscaped be less than 33% of the total lot area, not including
rights-of-way.
   (h)   Supplementary regulations: As provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A.
   (i)   Where a lot is developed and the rear or side yard abuts a lot
developed as a single-family, detached residential dwelling or abuts a
developed or undeveloped lot within the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS single-family
residential zoning district, a nonsolid wall, or fence six (6) feet in height,
shall be constructed on or parallel to that rear or side lot line. Not less
than 25% of the total surface area of the wall shall allow the free-flowing
passage of air while still serving as a visual barrier. The wall shall be
erected by the owner of the 5-RMO zoned property. The fence or wall shall be
constructed as follows:
      (1)   Materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of long-lasting,
durable materials, such as precast or poured concrete, concrete block,
composite hardboard (Hardi-board or Hardi Plank), or recycled plastics. Fences
or walls of sheet, link or corrugated iron, steel, or concertina wire, PVC,
pressure treated woods, non-treated woods, and aluminum are prohibited. Barbed
wire shall not be constructed or placed on top of a fence.
         a.   Where concrete materials are used, dyes, tints, patterns or
textures may be added to mitigate any "plain concrete" appearance.
         b.   To change the appearance of an "unbroken, monotonous blank wall",
it is encouraged that walls or fences be divided into discrete sections no more
than 10 feet in length, by columns, pilings, posts, architectural detail, or a
change in orientation, texture, pattern, materials or color.
      (2)    The six (6) foot wall or fence shall extend the full length of the
adjoining residential property; however, forward of the front building line of
an adjoining residential lot, the fence or wall shall be no higher than four
(4) feet.
      (3)   The wall or fence shall comply with all Town Code requirements for
vision clearance at corners and curb lots.
      (4)   Maintenance. Fences and walls shall be continuously maintained by
the owner of the 5-RMO property in an orderly and good condition, at no more
than their maximum allowed height.
      (5)   With regard to lots that are developed on or before May 1, 2012,
the wall or fence will be constructed by the property owner when the use of the
property is changed or the existing use is substantially redeveloped. For the
purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
         a.   Change of use shall mean a change from the use existing to any
other use.
         b.   Substantially redeveloped shall mean any increase in size, square
footage, height, coverage or intensity of the use or any structure associated
with the use, or the replacement or renovation the cost of which represents
greater than 30% of the assessed value of the structures on the property as
recorded in the most recent records of the property appraiser.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-4,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord.
2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am. Ord. 2014-08,
passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17) Penalty, see §
7A-173
§ 7A-36. 6-B DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply on
centrally located areas adjacent to major arterial streets and convenient to
major residential areas. The types of uses permitted are intended to provide
limited business activities serving the needs of residential neighborhoods.
Uses should reflect an atmosphere of providing basic consumer needs of the
residential community.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures. The following uses and structures are
permitted for any use or group of uses that are developed, either separately or
as a unit with certain site improvements shared in common:
      (1)   Retail stores, sales and display rooms, including places where
goods are produced and sold at retail on the premises.
      (2)   Personal service establishments such as barber and beauty shops,
laundry, and dry- cleaning pickup stations, and tailor shops.
      (3)   Professional offices, studios, clinics, general offices, and
business schools.
      (4)   Banks and financial institutions.
      (5)   Educational and cultural institutions.
      (6)   Public and private parking lots.
      (7)   Governmental and municipal buildings and public recreation areas.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses of one or more
of the principal uses clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use
and in keeping with the low-density commercial character of the District.
   (d)   Special exceptions:
      (1)   Bar/lounge.
      (2)   Houses of worship. A house of worship must have a maximum of 150
seats in the main assembly area. The main assembly area must include side rooms
and areas that can convert into part of main assembly room.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast inns. To be permitted, a bed and breakfast inn
must meet the provisions of §
7A-152(c)(2) and (3) of this code and the following requirement: If the
facility proposed to be a bed and breakfast inn is an existing structure(s),
the architectural features must be preserved. A rendering of the elevation must
be submitted by the applicant and shall be attached to the special exception
approval to assure future preservation of the architectural features.
      (4)   Restaurant, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   At least 51% of the total gross revenues must come on a bi-
monthly basis from the retail sale on the premises of food and non-alcoholic
beverages. Proceeds of catering sales are not to be included in the calculation
of the total gross revenues. "Catering sales" include food or non-alcoholic
beverage sales prepared by the restaurant owner/operator on the premises for
service by the owner/operator outside the restaurant premises.
         b.   For restaurants that serve any alcoholic beverages, the
restaurant owner/operator is required upon request by the Town Manager, a Town
code enforcement officer, or any Town law enforcement officer to "open the
restaurant's records" to substantiate that 51% or more of the total gross
revenues reported on a bi-monthly basis is derived from the sale of food and
non-alcoholic beverages, exclusive of revenues derived from catering. The
restaurant owner/operator has the burden of proof of compliance with the
requirements that 51% or more of the total gross revenues reported on a bi-
monthly basis is derived from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages,
exclusive of revenues derived from catering. Failure to substantiate or prove
compliance with this requirement results in the rebuttable presumption that the
restaurant is in actuality a bar or lounge.
            1.   For restaurants that serve any alcoholic beverages to qualify
as a restaurant pursuant to this code, the restaurant must maintain separate
records of all purchases and gross retail sales of food and non-alcoholic
beverages and all purchases and gross retail sales of alcoholic beverages. The
records required in this subparagraph must be maintained on the premises of the
restaurant, or such other designated place approved in writing by the Town
Manager for a period of three years after the month of sale. The Town Manager
will approve written requests to maintain the aforementioned records off the
premises when the place to be designated is the restaurant's business office,
open eight hours per work day, of a corporate officer, attorney, or accountant;
the place to be designated is located in Brevard County; and the place to be
designated is precisely identified by complete mailing address not using a post
office box. A failure to keep the foregoing sale records creates a presumption
that the restaurant is operating as a bar/lounge.
            2.   Since the burden is on the holder of the "restaurant" zoning
designation to demonstrate compliance with the foregoing requirements of the
designation as restaurant, the records required to be kept must be legible,
clear, and in the English language, and must be made available within 14 days
upon demand by the Town Manager, a code enforcement officer of the Town or Town
law enforcement.
         c.   The required percentage must be computed by adding all gross
sales of food, non-alcoholic beverages, and alcoholic beverages and thereafter
dividing that sum into the total of the gross sales of food plus non-alcoholic
beverages.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Drive-in, drive-up, drive through, or any other similar feature
that provides for receipt of goods, services, food, money or information by a
consumer while seated in a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (3)   Grow house.
      (4)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (5)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 60 feet (at front building line).
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 150 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, 50%.
      (5)   Minimum floor area, 300 square feet.
      (6)   Maximum height, 35 feet.
      (7)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior lot setback, none; provided a public access is
available to the rear of the lot for trash removal and fire protection.
Otherwise, a minimum side setback of 15 feet on one side of the structure is
required.
         c.   Side corner lot setback, 20 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 20 feet from lot line, except 25 feet when abutting
a residential area, and 15 feet when abutting an alley.
         e.   Ocean setback. No building or structure shall be constructed on
oceanfront property within the Town boundaries seaward of the coastal setback
line established pursuant to
Chapter 5A. In addition to the structures permitted in
Chapter 5A, beach access shall be permitted by an elevated boardwalk supported
on pilings with appropriate steps.
   (g)   Sidewalk and parking lots: Sidewalks and parking lots shall be
constructed and maintained by the owner along the public streets or highways
abutting any developments in this District.
   (h)   Supplementary regulations: As provided in §
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A.
   (i)   Where a lot is developed for commercial use and the rear or side yard
abuts a lot developed as a single-family, detached residential dwelling, or
abuts a developed or undeveloped lot within the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS single-
family residential zoning district, a masonry wall six (6) feet in height must
be constructed on or parallel to that rear or side lot line. Not less than 25%
of the total surface area of the wall shall allow the free-flowing passage of
air while still serving as a visual barrier. The wall must be erected and
maintained by and at the expense of the owner of the 6-B zoned property. The
wall must be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Materials. Walls must be constructed of long-lasting, durable
masonry materials, such as precast or poured concrete or concrete block. Walls
of sheet, link or corrugated, iron, steel, or concertina wire, PVC, pressure
treated woods, non-treated woods, and aluminum are prohibited. Barbed wire must
not be constructed or placed on top of a wall or used as part of a wall.
         (A)   Dyes, tints, patterns or textures may be added to mitigate any
"plain concrete" appearance. Plain concrete walls are not permitted.
         (B)   To change the appearance of an "unbroken, monotonous blank
wall", it is encouraged that walls be divided into discrete sections no more
than 10 feet in length, by columns, pilings, posts, architectural detail, or a
change in orientation, texture, pattern, materials or color.
      (2)   The six (6) foot wall must extend the full length of the adjoining
residential property; however, forward of the front building line of an
adjoining residential lot, the wall must be no higher than four (4) feet.
      (3)   The wall must comply with all Town code requirements for vision
clearance at corners and curb lots.
      (4)   Maintenance. Walls must be continuously maintained on both sides of
the wall at no more than their maximum allowed height at the expense of and by
the owner and occupant of the property within the 6-B zoning district in an
orderly, non-deteriorating, and good condition free of graffiti, peeling or
blistering paint or materials, broken or missing sections or posts, broken
concrete block masonry, and the like.
      (5)   With regard to lots that were granted a special exception for an
eating and drinking establishment, on or before April 1, 2013, a masonry wall
meeting the foregoing requirements must be constructed by and at the expense of
the property owner of the 6-B zoned property when the use of the property is
changed to a restaurant or the pre-existing eating and drinking establishment
use is substantially redeveloped. For the purposes of this sub-paragraph, the
following definitions apply:
         (A)   "Change of use" means a change from the use existing to any
other use.
         (B)   "Substantially redeveloped" means any increase in size, square
footage, height, coverage or intensity of the use or any structure associated
with the use, or the replacement or renovation the cost of which represents
greater than 30% of the assessed value of the structures on the property as
recorded in the most recent records of the property appraiser.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 6) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 74-3,
passed 9-24-74; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2003-04, adopted 12-
17-03; Am. Ord. 2-2005, adopted 7-20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am.
Ord. 2008-08, adopted 9-3-08; Am. Ord. 2009-03, adopted 4-15-09; Am. Ord. 2013-
02, adopted 5-15-13; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2018-03, adopted 8-15-18)
§ 7A-37. 7-C GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply on
centrally-located areas adjacent to major arterial streets and convenient to
major residential areas. The type of uses permitted are intended to provide
business activities serving the needs of residential neighborhoods and the
motorist. Uses should reflect an atmosphere of providing basic consumer needs
of the residential community.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures. The following uses and structures are
permitted for any use or group of uses that are developed, either separately or
as a unit with certain site improvements shared in common:
      (1)   Retail stores, sales and display rooms, including places where
goods are produced and sold at retail on the premises.
      (2)   Personal service establishments such as barber and beauty shops,
laundry, and dry cleaning pickup stations, and tailor shops.
      (3)   Professional offices, studios, clinics, general offices, and
business schools.
      (4)   Banks and financial institutions.
      (5)   Educational and cultural institutions.
      (6)   Public and private parking lots.
      (7)   Governmental and municipal buildings and public recreation areas.
      (8)   Service stations subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Any combustible material receptacle that has a capacity of over
110 gallons shall be underground.
         b.   The following activities are prohibited:
            1.   Storage or display of rental trucks and trailers;
            2.   Storing vehicles;
            3.   Excessive lighting including lighting that is not restricted
to the site without glare or direct illumination onto adjacent properties; and
            4.   Outdoor speaker system.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses of one or more
of the principal uses clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use
and in keeping with the low-density commercial character of the District.
   (d)   Special exceptions:
      (1)   Bar/lounge.
      (2)   Houses of worship. A house of worship must have a maximum of 150
seats in the main assembly area. The main assembly area must include side rooms
and areas that can convert into part of the main assembly room.
      (3)   Restaurants, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   At least 51% of the total gross revenues must come on a bi-
monthly basis from the retail sale on the premises of food and non-alcoholic
beverages. Proceeds of catering sales are not to be included in the calculation
of the total gross revenues. "Catering sales" include food or non-alcoholic
beverage sales prepared by the restaurant owner/operator on the premises for
service by the owner/operator outside the restaurant premises. The restaurant
owner/operator has the burden of proof of compliance with the requirements that
51% or more of the total gross revenues reported on a bi-monthly basis is
derived from the sale of food and non-alcoholic beverages, exclusive of
revenues derived from catering. Failure to substantiate or prove compliance
with this requirement results in the rebuttable presumption that the restaurant
is in actuality a bar or lounge.
         b.   For restaurants that serve any alcoholic beverages, the
restaurant owner/operator is required upon request by the Town Manager, a Town
code enforcement officer, or any Town law enforcement officer to "open the
restaurant's records" to substantiate that 51% or more of the total gross
revenues reported on a bi-monthly basis is derived from the sale of food and
non-alcoholic beverages, exclusive of revenues derived from catering.
            1.   For restaurants that serve any alcoholic beverages to qualify
as a restaurant pursuant to this code, the restaurant must maintain separate
records of all purchases and gross retail sales of food and non-alcoholic
beverages and all purchases and gross retail sales of alcoholic beverages. The
records required in this subparagraph must be maintained on the premises of the
restaurant, or such other designated place approved in writing by the Town
Manager for a period of three years after the month of sale. The Town Manager
must approve written requests to maintain the aforementioned records off the
premises when the place to be designated is the restaurant' s business office,
open eight hours per work day, of a corporate officer, attorney, or accountant;
the place to be designated is located in Brevard County; and the place to be
designated is precisely identified by complete mailing address not using a post
office box. A failure to keep the foregoing sale records creates a presumption
that the restaurant is operating as a bar/lounge.
            2.   Since the burden is on the holder of the "restaurant" zoning
designation to demonstrate compliance with the foregoing requirements of the
designation as restaurant, the records required to be kept must be legible,
clear, and in the English language, and must be made available within 14 days
upon demand by the Town Manager, a code enforcement officer of the Town or Town
law enforcement officer.
         c.   The required percentage must be computed by adding all gross
sales of food, non-alcoholic beverages, and alcoholic beverages and thereafter
dividing that sum into the total of the gross sales of food plus non-alcoholic
beverages.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Drive-in, drive-up, drive through, or any other similar feature,
excepting service stations that provides for receipt of goods, services, food,
money, or information by a consumer in a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (3)   Grow house.
      (4)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (5)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes and setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 60 feet (at front building line).
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 150 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, 50%.
      (5)   Minimum floor area, 300 square feet.
      (6)   Maximum height, 35 feet.
      (7)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior lot setback, none; provided a public access is
available to the rear of the lot for trash removal and fire protection.
Otherwise, a minimum side setback of 15 feet on one side of the structure is
required.
         c.   Side corner lot setback, 20 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 20 feet from lot line, except 25 feet when abutting
a residential area, and 15 feet when abutting an alley.
      (8)   Service station requirements:
         a.   Building setbacks shall be a minimum of 70 feet from road rights-
of-way with canopies and pumps at a minimum of 30 feet; on streets where no
pumps are located, setbacks shall be at least 55 feet.
         b.   Two curb cuts for ingress and egress are required for each street
side. All curb cuts which adjoin state-controlled rights-of-way must also be
approved by the State Department of Transportation.
   (g)   Landscaping regulations: Front and side yard setbacks (excluding
parking areas and driveways) shall be landscaped with ground cover, trees, and
shrubs; other decorative arrangements such as rock gardens, walkways, dwarf
trees, cobble, brick and like arrangements may be acceptable. Uncovered parking
areas shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs. Except for driveways, the
areas abutting the street rights-of- way from the curb to the property line
shall be landscaped. The rights-of-way from the curb to the property line shall
be landscaped and maintained by the owner. However, in no case shall the area
landscaped be less than 20% of the total lot area, not including rights-of-way.
   (h)   Sidewalk and parking lots: Sidewalks and parking lots shall be
constructed and maintained by the owner along the public streets or highways
abutting any developments in this District.
   (i)   Supplementary regulations: As provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A.
   (j)   Where a lot is developed for commercial use and the rear or side yard
abuts a lot developed as a single-family, detached residential dwelling, or
abuts a developed or undeveloped lot within the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS single-
family residential zoning district, or zone 8-B, a masonry wall six (6) feet in
height must be constructed on or parallel to that rear or side lot line. Not
less than 25% of the total surface area of the wall shall allow the free-
flowing passage of air while still serving as a visual barrier. The wall must
be erected and maintained by and at the expense of the owner of the 7-C zoned
property. The wall must be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Materials. Walls must be constructed of long-lasting, durable
masonry materials, such as precast or poured concrete or concrete block. Walls
of sheet, link or corrugated, iron, steel, or concertina wire, PVC, pressure
treated woods, non-treated woods, and aluminum are prohibited. Barbed wire must
not be constructed or placed on top of a wall or used as part of a wall.
         a.   Dyes, tints, patterns or textures may be added to mitigate any
"plain concrete" appearance. Plain concrete walls are not permitted.
         b.   To change the appearance of an "unbroken, monotonous blank wall",
it is encouraged that walls be divided into discrete sections no more than 10
feet in length, by columns, pilings, posts, architectural detail, or a change
in orientation, texture, pattern, materials or color.
      (2)   The six (6) foot wall must extend the full length of the adjoining
residential property; however, forward of the front building line of an
adjoining residential lot, the wall must be no higher than four (4) feet.
      (3)    The wall must comply with all Town code requirements for vision
clearance at corners and curb lots.
      (4)   Maintenance. Walls must be continuously maintained on both sides of
the wall at no more than their maximum allowed height at the expense of and by
the owner and occupant of the property within the 7-C zoning district in an
orderly, non-deteriorating, and good condition free of graffiti, peeling or
blistering paint or materials, broken or missing sections or posts, broken
concrete block masonry, and the like.
      (5)   With regard to lots that were granted a special exception for an
eating and drinking establishment on or before April 1, 2013, a masonry wall
meeting the foregoing requirements must be constructed by the property owner
when the use of the property is changed to a restaurant or the pre-existing
eating and drinking establishment use is substantially redeveloped. For the
purposes of this sub-paragraph, the following definitions apply:
         a.   "Change of use" means a change from the use existing to any other
use.
         b.   "Substantially redeveloped" means any increase in size, square
footage, height, coverage or intensity of the use or any structure associated
with the use, or the replacement or renovation the cost of which represents
greater than 30% of the assessed value of the structures on the property as
recorded in the most recent records of the property appraiser.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 7) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am. Ord. 2008-08, adopted
9-3-08; Am. Ord. 2009-03, adopted 4-15-09; Am. Ord. 2013-02, adopted 5-15-13;
Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord.
2018-03, adopted 8-15-18)
§ 7A-38. 8-B RESIDENTIAL-BUSINESS ZONE.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to the
historical area of the Town along Ocean Avenue. Lot sizes and other
restrictions are intended to promote and protect medium-density residential and
business development while preserving adequate open space and the historical
nature of the area and ensuring compatibility with other areas of the
community.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Multi-family residences.
      (2)   Single-family residences (provided such residences meet the
following 3-RS Single- Family Residential District requirements).
 
CRITERIA                                  Living              Minimum Yards (feet)
(1)             Lot            Lot        Area (min
         Lot    Width    Lot   Coverage   sq ft
         Area   (min ft  Depth (max % by  excluding Height
DISTRICT (min   at       (min  principal  garage    (maximum) Front Side     Side   Rear
         sq ft) building ft)   structure) and                       Interior Corner
                line)                     porch)

3-RS     10,000 90 (2)   100   30         1,400 (2) 28        25    15       25     25
(1)   Compliance with applicable supplementary regulations provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A is required.
(2)   One half of the garage area, not to exceed 200 square feet, excluding porches may
be used to meet minimum square footage requirements.
 
      (3)   Duplexes.
      (4)   Houses of worship. A house of worship must have a maximum of 150
seats in the main assembly area. The main assembly area must include side rooms
and areas that can convert into part of the main assembly room.
   (c)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses of one or more
of the principal uses clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use
and in keeping with the intent and purpose of the District.
   (d)   Special exceptions:
      (1)   Personal service establishments primarily engaged in providing
services involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or
apparel. These include barbershop, beauty shop, clothes cleaning and repair,
dry cleaning drop- off/pickup stations, nail care, reducing salons and health
clubs, shoe repair, tailor, and similar uses no primarily offering a product
for sale.
      (2)   Professional offices, clinics, general offices, business schools
and similar uses.
      (3)   Educational and cultural institutions.
      (4)   Governmental and municipal buildings and public recreation areas.
      (5)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (e)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Drive-in, drive-up, drive through, or any other similar feature
that provides for receipt of goods, services, food, money or information by a
consumer while seated in a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (3)   Grow house.
      (4)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (5)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (f)   Lot and principal structures, sizes, and setbacks, all uses except
single-family residences:
      (1)   Minimum lot area, 9,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width, 60 feet (at building setback line).
      (3)   Minimum lot depth, 150 feet.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage, 40%.
      (5)   Minimum floor area.
         a.   Single-family structures, 1,400 square feet including one-half of
the garage area not to exceed 200 square feet, excluding porches.
         b.   Multifamily structures:
            1.   One-bedroom apartment, 800 square feet minimum.
            2.   Two-bedroom apartment, 1,000 square feet minimum. Additional
bedrooms require an increase of 150 square feet for each additional bedroom.
            3.   Duplex, 2,000 square feet (1,000 square feet for each dwelling
unit).
            4.   Businesses, 300 square feet minimum.
      (6)   Maximum density, 15 dwelling units per acre.
      (7)   Maximum height, 28 feet.
      (8)   Minimum yard requirements:
         a.   Front setback, 25 feet from lot line.
         b.   Side interior lot setback, none; provided a public access is
available to the rear of the lot for trash removal and fire protection.
Otherwise, a minimum side setback of 15 feet on one side of the structure is
required.
         c.   Side corner lot setback, 20 feet from lot line.
         d.   Rear setback, 20 feet from lot line; except 25 feet when abutting
a residential area, and 15 feet when abutting an alley.
      (9)   Minimum distance between structures on the same lot, 15 feet.
   (g)   Sidewalk and parking lots. Sidewalks and parking lots shall be
constructed and maintained by the owner along the public streets or highways
abutting any developments in this district.
   (h)   Supplementary regulations: As provided in §§
7A-50 through
7A-69, and
Chapter 9A.
   (i)   Where a rear or side line of a developed lot abuts residentially zoned
property (1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS single-family residential zoning districts), and
the 8-B property has been granted a special exception use permit, a nonsolid
wall or fence six (6) feet in height, shall be constructed on or parallel to
that rear or side lot line. Not less than 25% of the total surface area of the
wall shall allow the free-flowing passage of air while still serving as a
visual barrier. The wall shall be erected by the owner of the 8-B zoned
property. The fence or wall shall be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of long-lasting,
durable materials, such as precast or poured concrete, concrete block,
composite hardboard (Hardi-board or Hardi Plank), or recycled plastics. Fences
or walls of sheet, link or corrugated, iron, steel, or concertina wire, PVC,
pressure treated woods, non-treated woods, and aluminum are prohibited. Barbed
wire shall not be constructed or placed on top of a fence.
         a.   Where concrete materials are used, dyes, tints, patterns or
textures may be added to mitigate any "plain concrete" appearance.
         b.   To change the appearance of an "unbroken, monotonous blank wall",
it is encouraged that walls or fences be divided into discrete sections no more
than 10 feet in length, by columns, pilings, posts, architectural detail, or a
change in orientation, texture, pattern, materials or color.
      (2)   The six (6) foot wall or fence shall extend the full length of the
adjoining residential property; however, forward of the front building line of
an adjoining residential lot, the fence or wall shall be no higher than four
(4) feet.
      (3)   The wall or fence shall comply with all Town Code requirements for
vision clearance at corners and curb lots.
      (4)   Maintenance. Fences and walls shall be continuously maintained by
the owner of the 8-B property in an orderly and good condition, at no more than
their maximum allowed height.
   (j)   Where the rear or side lot of a developed lot abuts residentially
zoned property (1-RS, 2-RS or 3 RS single-family residential zoning districts)
and the 8-B property is used for multi-family residential purposes, a fence,
six feet in height, shall be constructed parallel to that rear or side lot
line. The fence shall be erected by the owner of the 8-B zoned property. The
fence shall extend the full length of the adjoining residential property
located in the 1-RS, but shall be no higher than four feet, forward of the
front building line of the adjoining residential lot. Further, the fence shall
comply with code requirements for vision clearance at corners and curb lots.
Fences shall be maintained in good condition by the owner of the 8-B zoned
property.
   (k)   Vested rights for properties granted special exception uses prior to
September 17,2008. Provided that all the conditions set forth in §
7A-38(l) are met, all properties having been granted development approval, and
which were developed on or before September 17, 2008, for any or all of the
following special exception uses, shall be permitted to maintain those uses on
the property, in the same manner and to substantially the same extent that the
uses were approved, subject to the same conditions and limitations placed upon
any prior established use:
      (1)   Retail stores, sales and display rooms, including places where
goods are produced and sold at retail on the premises.
      (2)   Personal service establishments such as laundry and dry cleaning
pickup stations, and similar uses.
      (3)   Professional studies, business schools and similar uses.
      (4)   Vocational and trade schools not involving operations of an
industrial nature.
      (5)   Banks and financial institutions.
      (6)   Public and private parking lots.
      (7)   Public recreation areas.
   Additionally, the provisions of §
7A-38(e)(5) shall not apply to those properties granted, and developed with,
any or all of the special exceptions listed in this §
7A-38(k) as of September 17. 2008. In applying this subsection (k), no pre-
existing use to which vested rights applies shall be expanded, either in size
or scope, beyond the use as approved, developed, and in existence on or before
September 17, 2008.
   (l)   Conditions, applicable uses and structures associated with §
7A-38(k).
   The establishment of any use under the provisions of §
7A-38(k) shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The number of off-street parking spaces provided on the site are
consistent with special exception approval granted prior to September 17, 2008.
The degree of parking nonconformity shall not be increased by any extent.
      (2)   A structural feature or structure which is integrally associated
with the use, but which is now prohibited under §
7A-38(e)(1), shall be considered part of the approved special exception use and
may be reestablished in the event of its destruction. However, if the structure
or structural feature is nonconforming with respect to any provision of §
7A-38(f), the provisions of §
7A-83 shall apply to the nonconforming structure.
      (3)   Signs that do not meet the current provisions of §
7A-52(d) shall be considered nonconforming signs and subject to the provisions
of §
7A-52(f).
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 8) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-
14-07; Am. Ord. 2007-08, adopted 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 2008-08, adopted 9-3-08;
Am. Ord. 2008-09, adopted 11-19-08; Am. Ord. 2009-03, adopted 4-15-09; Am. Ord.
2014-08, passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2016-01, adopted 10-19-16; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-39. 9-I INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   Intent. The provisions of this district are intended to apply to lands
operated for a public governmental use including Town lands and/or structures
owned by or leased to the Town of Melbourne Beach. Such lands are intended to
provide for public facilities, public assembly, and public recreational,
educational, or cultural services to residents of and visitors to the Town.
   (b)   Principal uses and structures:
      (1)   Public buildings and activities, such as Town halls, public safety
buildings, auditoriums, community centers, historic buildings, and similar
uses.
      (2)   Public educational institutions.
      (3)   Public recreational uses.
      (4)   Libraries.
      (5)   Special event uses such as:
         a.   Town sponsored events.
         b.   Non-commercial exhibits or shows.
         c.   Private party, meeting, wedding or other private gatherings.
         d.   Non-commercial similar uses.
   (c)   Use of Town properties or other public lands by entities other than
the Town.
   Except as may otherwise be limited by deed restrictions or other conditions
attached to the use of Town lands or structures, the Town may rent, lease, or
sublease such properties to others and may allow the use of such properties for
special events under the following circumstances, conditions and limitations:
   A special event permit shall be required for any event held by an entity
other than the Town of Melbourne Beach and such special event shall be governed
by the definitions, application requirements, processes and regulations set
forth in
Chapter 52 of the Town's Code of Ordinances.
   (d)   Accessory uses and structures: Customary accessory uses of one or more
of the principal uses clearly incidental and subordinate to the principal use
and in keeping with the intent of the district.
   (e)   Special exceptions: None.
   (f)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   Any use which is not public in character.
      (2)   Drive-in, drive-up, drive through, or any other similar feature
that provides for receipt of goods, services, food, money or information by a
consumer while seated in a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Facility or base for mobile marijuana dispensary.
      (4)   Grow house.
      (5)   Marijuana dispensary.
      (6)   All other uses not specifically or provisionally permitted herein.
   (g)   Lot and structure requirements: None.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VI, § 9) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2014-08,
passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-40. CHURCHES, TEMPLES, PLACES OF WORSHIP, LIBRARIES, MUSEUMS AND SCHOOLS
IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (a)   All churches, temples, places of worship, libraries, museums and
schools existing in a 1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM or 5-RMO zoning district and in
existence on the effective date of this section (April 25, 1990), shall be
regarded as conforming uses. However, no church, temple, place of worship,
library, museum or school existing in a 1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM or 5-RMO zoning
district and in existence on the effective date may expand beyond the lot lines
and existing parcel on which said church, temple, place of worship, library,
museum or school in a 1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM or 5-RMO zoning district existed
on the effective date; provided, further, that no separate platted lot (or
lots) in the 1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM or 5-RMO zoning districts which is
unimproved on December 13, 1989 may be used for expansion of such use or
structure.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude the future
expansion or reconstruction of improvements on the existing lot or parcel of
any church, temple, place of worship, library, museum, or school located in a
1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM, or 5-RMO zoning district and in existence on the
effective date of this section, if a site plan for such expansion or
reconstruction is duly approved by the Town using the procedures and criteria
otherwise generally established in the Town Code of Ordinances for approval of
site plans; provided, however, that no separate platted lot (or lots) in the 1-
RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM, or 5-RMO zoning districts which are unimproved on
December 13, 1989 may be used for expansion of such use or structure. Spires
and steeples may be reconstructed to their originally approved height in the
event of destruction, structural deterioration, or other circumstances
requiring replacement.
   (c)   The term IN EXISTENCE ON THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS SECTION, as used
in this section, shall include all churches, temples, places of worship,
libraries, museums and schools in a 1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM or 5-RMO zoning
district:
      (1)   That were approved special exceptions on the effective date of this
section;
      (2)   That were constructed in said zoning districts and existing prior
to the existence of zoning in the Town of Melbourne Beach but which had not
been expanded since the inception of zoning; or
      (3)   That were subject to an application for a special exception or
expansion of a special exception filed and pending consideration before the
Board of Adjustment on or before December 13, 1989 and for which the Board of
Adjustment had not issued a final determination on said application on or
before the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-25-90; Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-41. – 7A-49. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 7A-50. OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (a)   Minimum requirements. In the interest of the health, safety and
welfare of the general public and in the promotion and preservation of traffic
safety, all buildings, structures and uses shall be provided with adequate off-
street parking and off- street loading facilities in accordance with the
parking and loading requirements of this section. Off-street parking and off-
street loading areas shall be maintained to be structurally sound and neat and
orderly in appearance and continued as part of the primary use of the site.
   If the gross floor area of the principal structure on the site is expanded
or enlarged, or if the use on the site is changed to one which would require a
larger number of parking spaces than the previous use, then off-street parking
serving the site shall be increased by the number of additional parking spaces
required by the new use. Deficiencies in the number of required parking spaces
shall not be increased. If an existing deficiency is maintains or reduced then
the change of use may be approved.
   Parking space computation shall be based on the gross floor area unless
otherwise stipulated in the Land Development Code.
   The minimum off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with
the following:
      (1)   Business, Office, Professional Office, Financial, Medical, Dental,
Clinic, or retail uses. One space per 200 square feet of gross floor area or
fraction thereof.
      (2)   Barbershops and beauty parlors. One space per 100 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
      (3)   Churches, temples or places of worship. One space for each three
seats or seating places, or one space for each 150 square feet of gross floor
area, or fraction thereof, of the main assembly hall, whichever is greater,
based on maximum occupancy as determined by the fire marshal.
      (4)   Libraries, museums. One space for each 300 square feet of gross
floor area, or fraction thereof, that is open to the public.
      (5)   Multi-family dwelling units. Two parking spaces per unit must be
provided. At least one of these spaces must be fully enclosed.
      (6)   Restaurants, lounges, and other eating or drinking establishments.
One space per 75 feet of gross floor area devoted to customer service.
      (7)   Single-family dwelling units. Enclosed parking space must be
provided for at least two vehicles.
      (8)   Vocational, trade, and academic schools above ninth grade level:
One space for every two students (computed on total student capacity as
determined by the fire marshal and/or the State of Florida).
      (9)   Schools ninth grade level and below: one and 1/2 spaces for each
classroom.
      (10)   Daycare/nurseries: one and one half spaces for each employee based
on the number of employees determined by State licensing agency to be present
when operating at full capacity.
      (11)   Bed and breakfast inns. One on-site parking space per guestroom
and an additional two on-site parking spaces for the resident manager/
innkeeper.
      (12)   Drug stores and pharmacies. One space for each 200 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof.
      (13)   Parking requirements for uses not specifically listed shall be
determined by the Building Official based on the most similar use listed which
is most similar in the number of automobile trips generated as computed using
the most recent edition of the I.T.E. Trip Generation Manual.
   (b)   Location and design of off-street parking spaces for other than
single-family residential dwellings and duplex residential structures.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be located on the same property with the
principal structure and use to be served, unless otherwise authorized by the
Town Commission. Off-site parking may be authorized in the following instances:
         a.   Insufficient parking is available on the property containing the
principal structure.
         b.   The off-site parking area is located a maximum of 300 feet to the
property line as measured along a straight line from the closest point of each
property to one another.
         c.   Compliance with all other applicable parking regulations are
complied with.
         d.   No public right-of-way or other public property shall be used to
meet the parking requirements.
      (2)   Sufficient on site space shall be provided to ensure for ingress
and egress to parking spaces and internal traffic circulation.
         a.   Minimum design standards. Minimum dimensions of parking spaces
shall be ten
feet (10') by twenty feet (20'). When a curb stop or curbing is used as a wheel
stop for head-in parking, the twenty foot (20') dimension may be eighteen feet
(18') of paving from the curb stop plus a two foot (2') overhang area. The
overhang area shall not be counted as buffering or landscaping area to meet
minimum landscape requirements.
         b.   Minimum ingress/egress. Parking areas shall have parking spaces
meeting the standards set forth in subparagraph (2)a. above, and shall meet the
following standards with regard to driveways or aisles through a parking lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e0bd313f68578e206ebe917ba6cad23e623523e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6666.png]
      (3)   Required off-street parking areas for three or more automobiles
shall have individual spaces marked and shall be so designed, maintained, and
regulated in such a manner that no parking or maneuvering incidental to parking
shall be on any public right-of-way, public street, walk, or alley, and so that
any automobile may access and exit from the parking space without moving
another automobile.
   (c)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   No truck over ¾-ton, trailer, major recreational equipment, travel
van, boat or similar object may be parked in front of the front building line
of a residence unless it is not visible from the street.
      (2)   Handicapped parking space requirements. Handicapped parking spaces
shall be posted as per the Federal Highway Administration Uniform Traffic Code.
The required number of handicapped parking spaces and design shall be as
required by Florida Statutes.
   (d)   Off-street loading requirements. Loading space dimensions: length, 45
feet; width, 14 feet; and height, 14 feet. Sufficient maneuvering area shall be
provided where it is anticipated that trucks or trailers exceeding 45 feet in
length will be utilized in loading or unloading. Loading spaces shall be within
the confines of the property.
      (1)   Every single-occupancy retail or office establishment permitted use
having a floor area of 3,000 square feet or more, requiring the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of materials and merchandise shall have at least one
permanently maintained off-street loading space for each 3,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (2)   Single-occupancy retail operations with a gross floor area of less
than 3,000 square feet shall provide sufficient receiving space on the property
so as not to hinder the fast movement of vehicles and pedestrians over a
sidewalk, street or alley as determined by the Town Planner.
      (3)   All refuse and garbage shall be held in suitable containers at the
rear of the front line of the structure for subsequent pickup.
   (e)   No off-street parking of vehicles is allowed except on hard surfaced
areas. Hard surface shall include asphalt, concrete or other similar
stabilizing material. Pervious surfacing material considered by the Planning
and Zoning Board may be approved by the Town Commission as part of the site
plan review and approval process where circumstances of use are conducive to
this type of pavement. Marl is specifically prohibited for use in parking areas
and driveways.
   (f)   Where artificial lighting of parking areas is provided, it shall be
designed and arranged so as to shield public streets and adjacent properties
from direct glare.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 83-3,
passed 3-15-83; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87;
Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 3-10-93; Am. Ord. 94-01, passed 6-15-94; Am. Ord. 2003-
04, adopted 12-17-03; Am. Ord. 2-2005, adopted 7-20-05; Am. Ord. 2014-08,
passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2018-03, adopted
8-15-18; Am. Ord. 2019-06, adopted 1-15-20)
§ 7A-51. SITE PLAN APPROVAL FOR MULTI- FAMILY DISTRICTS 4-RM AND 5-RMO, 8-
B RESIDENTIAL-BUSINESS DISTRICT, 6-B DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT, AND 7-
C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND ALL USES AND STRUCTURES APPROVED BY SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions is to provide a harmonious
and compatible relationship between business uses in the Town and in
neighboring residential areas and, in the case of multi- family development, to
encourage a harmonious linkage with the surrounding developments. These
provisions are also provided so that the approval of any special exception may
be conditioned on an applicable site plan. This is provided with a review and
evaluation of all site plans by the Civil Engineer, Building Official and/or
Planning Official, Planning and Zoning Board, and the Town Commission.
   (b)   Site plan approval required. A site plan must be reviewed and
evaluated by the Civil Engineer, Building Official and/or Planning Official and
Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the Town Commission prior to issuance
of a permit for development of any of the following:
      (1)   New construction for buildings and related structures in a 4-RM, 5-
RMO, 6-B, 7-C, or 8-B zoning district.
      (2)   Construction or alterations that will increase the height of an
existing building or structure, including but not limited to additional
stories, false roofs, false walls, and facades, in a 4-RM, 5-RMO, 6-B, 7-C or
8-B zoning district.
      (3)   Construction or alteration that will expand the interior of an
existing building devoted to an existing use if the expansion is to a special
exception use or if the expansion would result in a requirement for additional
parking spaces.
      (4)   Construction or alteration that will expand the exterior of an
existing building including but not limited to porches, patios, decks,
balconies or other features, that have the potential to increase the activities
on the site in a manner that would create a need for additional off-street
parking or loading facilities, in a 4-RM, 5-RMO, 6-B, 7-C, or 8-B zoning
district.
      (5)   Construction or alteration that occurs in conjunction with a change
in the usage (activity) of an existing building or structure in a 4-RM, 5-RMO,
6-B, 7-C, or 8-B zoning district.
      (6)   Churches, museums, places of worship, temples, libraries or schools
in a 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS zoning district.
      (7)   For all development related to a special exception use, the special
exception use shall not be considered approved until a site plan meeting all
criteria of the Land Development Code has been reviewed by Town staff and the
Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the Town Commission.
   (c)   General consideration and site plan review.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board, Civil Engineer, Building Official
and/or the Planning Official shall ascertain that proposed lot sizes, lot
coverage, building heights, yard requirements, stormwater retention, loading
provisions, off-street parking provisions and other provisions that are
regulated by the Land Development Code are adequate to meet the requirements of
this Land Development Code and that proposed uses are harmonious with the
adjacent uses and with the area.
      (2)   In addition to the above general consideration, the Civil Engineer,
Building Official and/or the Planning Official, Planning and Zoning Board and
the Town Commission, in the exercise of their authority, shall also consider
the following standards and factors and shall show in the record that each
factor was considered.
         a.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures, with
reference to automotive and pedestrian safety, traffic flow and control,
provision of services and access in case of fire or catastrophe.
         b.   Manner of drainage to and from the property.
         c.   Utilities, with reference to hook- in locations and availability
and capability for the use projected.
         d.   Off-street parking areas and loading areas with attention to
automotive and pedestrian safety, traffic flow and control, access in case of
fire or catastrophe, and convenience to the units it is designed to serve.
         e.   Landscaping in conjunction with parking areas and open spaces
(see
Chapter 9A).
         f.   Density of development, within the framework of the permitted
density in the case of multi-family uses.
         g.   In multi-family development, consideration shall be given to
recreation and open spaces, with attention to the location, size and
development of the areas in regard to their adequacy, their effect on privacy
of adjacent living areas and their relationship to community-wide open spaces
and recreation facilities.
         h.   General character and compatibility with reference to ensuring
the proposed plan will be designed so as not to cause substantial depreciation
of property values or reduce the safety, light, air and general convenience of
neighboring developments.
         i.   Setbacks, distances between structures, required screening for
adjoining areas, lighting and signs.
      (3)   With regard to site plans for a special exception use, the special
exception and the site plan shall also be evaluated by the Board of Adjustment
considering each of the foregoing requirements in paragraph (2) above; the
requirements for issuance of a special exception set forth in §
7A-152; and the special exception requirements set forth in an applicable
zoning district, all as a part of the process for approving a special exception
as set forth in §
7A-152. Approval of a special exception site plan by the Board of Adjustment
shall be conditioned upon approval of the site plan (but not the special
exception) by the Planning and Zoning Board and the Town Commission. Any non-
approval of a special exception site plan by the Town Commission shall require
re-examination and consideration for approval of the special exception and site
plan by the Board of Adjustment.
   (d)   Procedure for obtaining site plan approval shall be as follows:
      (1)   Preapplication conference. The applicant shall meet with the
Building Official to discuss basic site plan requirements, consider preliminary
features of the site and the proposed development and determine if the proposed
use conforms to the zoning requirements of the district.
      (2)   Site plan checklist. The applicant shall properly fill out a
checklist provided by the Building Official. This checklist will summarize the
site plan and it will be used as a guide for site plan evaluation.
      (3)   Preliminary site plan. Following the preapplication conference,
seven copies of a preliminary site plan prepared by a registered civil engineer
or architect, licensed to practice in the State of Florida, showing the
proposed general layout and a vicinity map showing the location of abutting
streets, existing and proposed utilities and storm drainage systems in
accordance with the site plan requirements shall be submitted to the Building
Department.
      (4)   General statement. A statement describing the general character of
the intended development and the proposed method of preserving and maintaining
open space shall accompany the seven copies of the preliminary site plan.
      (5)   Review and recommendations. Applications for site plan approval
shall be submitted to the Building Official who shall forward copies of the
proposed plans to the Police Department and the Fire Department for their
written recommendations regarding health, safety and welfare.
      (6)   Upon completion of the above five steps and receipt of the above
recommendations, the Planning and Zoning Board shall review the site plan and
those recommendations and submit their own recommendations to the Town
Commission within 30 days after the receipt of the above plans and
recommendations, and in no event later than one week prior to the date of a
public hearing which is hereby required to be held. The Town Commission then
shall review all recommendations and either approve, disapprove, or approve
with conditions the plan or portions of the plan submitted not later than the
second regular Commission meeting following the receipt of the written
recommendations.
   (e)   Site plan requirements. Site plans shall include:
      (1)   Name, location, owner and designer of the proposed development and
the intended use(s).
      (2)   Location of the site in relation to surrounding properties,
including the means of ingress and egress to such properties and any screening
or buffers on such properties.
      (3)   Date, north arrow and graphic scale (not less than one inch equals
20 feet).
      (4)   Location of all property lines, existing streets, easements,
utilities, as well as proposed drainage structures and culverts and proposed
streets, driveways and general lot layout.
      (5)   Location of all trash and litter receptacles.
      (6)   Location and design of landscape areas, including all existing
trees (whether to be affected by the construction or not) which shall also be
reflected on a professionally signed and sealed survey.
      (7)   All structures, major features and fences, including all existing
outbuildings and accessory structures (whether to be affected by the
construction or not) which shall also be reflected on a professionally signed
and sealed survey, shall be fully dimensioned, including the distance between
structures and the distance between driveways, parking areas and property or
lot lines.
      (8)   Sign locations.
      (9)   Off-street parking and loading provisions in detail.
      (10)   A professionally prepared drainage plan drawn to scale showing
flow paths and retention areas and certifying that retention requirements are
met.
      (11)   A professionally prepared plan drawn to scale and depicting the
exterior appearance of proposed construction including landscaping, parking
lots, and general layout. An elevation sketch of the front building facade
indicating height dimension.
      (12)   A performance bond. After the site plan for a commercial structure
has been approved but prior to the issuance of a building permit, the owner
and/or developer shall present to the Building Official proof that he (the
owner and/or developer) has secured a performance bond in favor of the Town in
an amount equal to 1 1/2 times the value of the construction for which a
building permit is requested. This performance bond is required to restore the
site to its preconstruction condition or completion of building should
construction be abandoned at any stage for any reason.
   (f)   Final approval to site plan.
      (1)   Upon the site plan being approved and a building permit being
issued, the development shall be built substantially in accordance with the
site plan and the plans and specifications. Deviations from the approved site
plan being made are subject to the approval of the Town Manager, Civil
Engineer, and Building Official. Substantial deviations as defined by the Town
Manager, Civil Engineer or Building Official require approval of the Town
Commission and will follow the initial site plan approval process.
      (2)   Approval of a site plan shall become a binding condition on the use
of the land encompassed by the approved site plan under the applicable land use
classification. Upon any conveyance of any portion of such land encompassed by
the approved site plan, the grantee or transferee shall also be bound by the
approved site plan. All changes will be recorded with the original site plan
and retained at the Town Hall.
      (3)   Site plans are approved for six months only. During that time a
building permit must be applied for. In the event a permit is not applied for
within that six-month period, application must be made for a new site plan
approval. Any change in the zoning code that occurs during that period will be
applicable to the new site plan approval. Site plans approved as a condition of
a special exception shall be valid for six months after the exception is
granted; provided that any change in the zoning code that occurs during that
period will be applicable to the new site plan approval.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, 2) (Ord. 75-1, passed 2-11-75; Am. Ord. 78-9,
passed 5-22-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-06, adopted 1-15-20)
§ 7A-51.1. SITE PLAN APPROVAL FOR SINGLE- FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
1-RS, 2-RS, AND 3-RS.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to assure that all development
of principal permitted uses within the 1-RS, 2-RS, and 3-RS meets the
requirements of this
chapter 7A. This review shall be applicable for all principal uses, certain
accessory uses, and special exceptions within the 1-RS, 2-RS, and the 3-RS
zoning districts, except for churches, museums, places of worship, temples,
libraries, or schools in the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS zoning districts, which shall
be reviewed pursuant to §
7A-51. At a minimum, all site plans subject to this section shall be reviewed
and evaluated by the Civil Engineer, Building Official and the Town Commission.
As provided in subsection (b), the Planning and Zoning Board and the Zoning
Official may from time to time also be required to review and evaluate site
plans pursuant to this section.
   (b)   Site plan approval required.
      (1)   A site plan must be reviewed and evaluated by the Civil Engineer,
Building Official and approved by the Town Commission prior to issuance of a
permit for development and construction of a principal use, an accessory use
developed simultaneous with a principal use, or special exception in the 1-RS,
2-RS, or 3-RS zoning district, as provided in subsection (c).
      (2)   From time to time, the Town Commission may by voice vote direct
that all or certain of the site plans subject to review pursuant to this
section shall also be reviewed and evaluated by the Zoning Official and/or the
Planning and Zoning Board. The review and evaluation authority of site plans
pursuant to this section by the Zoning Official and/or the Planning and Zoning
Board may also be withdrawn from time to time by voice vote of the Town
Commission.
      (3)   Review and evaluation of site plans by the Planning and Zoning
Board pursuant to this section, if provided for by the Town Commission, shall
occur after review by the Civil Engineer and Building Official and prior to
review and approval by the Town Commission. Upon completion of review by the
Planning and Zoning Board, the Planning and Zoning Board shall make a
recommendation to the Town Commission with regard to appropriate action to be
taken by the Town Commission relating to a site plan reviewed pursuant to this
section.
      (4)   Review and evaluation of site plans by the Zoning Official, if
provided for by the Town Commission, shall occur prior to review and evaluation
by the Planning and Zoning Board and the Town Commission. Upon completion of
review by the Zoning Official, the Zoning Official shall make a recommendation
with regard to appropriate action to be taken relating to a site plan reviewed
pursuant to this section.
   (c)   Site plan review and approval pursuant to this section shall occur
with regard to any of the following types of development:
      (1)   New construction for any principal use structure, any accessory use
structure developed simultaneous with any principal use structure, or the
expansion or redevelopment of any principal use structure, or use permitted by
special exception, in the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS zoning districts. As used in the
foregoing sentence, the term “simultaneous” shall mean that a building permit
for development of an accessory use structure is to be issued within 180 days
of the issuance of a building permit for new construction of, or the expansion
or redevelopment of, any principal use structure;
      (2)   Construction or alterations that will increase the height of an
existing principal use building or structure, including but not limited to
additional stories, false roofs, false walls, and facades, in the 1-RS, 2-RS,
or 3-RS zoning districts;
      (3)   Construction or alteration that will expand the footprint of an
existing principal use structure or building, or use permitted by special
exception, including but not limited to porches, patios, decks, balconies, or
the like of an existing structure, all in the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS zoning
districts; and
      (4)   Construction or alteration that occurs in conjunction with a change
in the principal use or use permitted by special exception of an existing
building or structure, all in the 1-RS, 2-RS, or 3-RS zoning districts.
   (d)   General consideration and site plan review for development. The Civil
Engineer, Building Official and, if so directed, the Zoning Official and the
Planning and Zoning Board shall ascertain that proposed lot area, lot width,
lot depth, lot coverage, minimum living area, building or structure height,
yard requirements, applicable ocean setback, number of stories, stormwater
retention, and use of a principal structure are consistent with and adequate to
meet the requirements of this Land Development Code and other applicable
provisions of the Land Development Code or are or will be subject to a variance
permitting the varying of applicable provisions of the Land Development Code.
   (e)   Procedure for obtaining site plan approval shall be as follows:
      (1)   Preapplication conference. The applicant shall meet with the
Building Official to discuss basic site plan requirements, consider preliminary
features of the site and the proposed development, and determine if the
proposed use conforms to the zoning requirements of the district.
      (2)   Site plan checklist. The applicant shall properly fill out a
checklist provided by the Building Official. This checklist will summarize the
site plan, and it will be used as a guide for site plan evaluation.
      (3)   Preliminary site plan. Following the preapplication conference,
seven copies of a preliminary site plan prepared and sealed by a civil engineer
or architect, registered and licensed by the state, showing the proposed
general layout and a vicinity map showing the location of abutting streets,
existing and proposed use of the site, and all the factors required by
subsections (d) and (f) shall be submitted to the Building Department.
      (4)   Review and recommendations. Applications for site plan approval
shall be submitted to the Civil Engineer and Building Official, who shall
review and evaluate the site plan to assure compliance with the requirements of
this section, making recommendations to the Town Commission and, if applicable,
the Planning and Zoning Board. If the Town Commission has directed that site
plans of the type submitted are to be evaluated by the Zoning Official and/or
the Planning and Zoning Board, a copy of the site plan shall be forwarded by
the Building Department to the Zoning Official and/or the Planning and Zoning
Board for review and evaluation to assure compliance with the requirements of
this section. The Zoning Official and/or the Planning and Zoning Board shall
make recommendations to the Town Commission and, if applicable, the Planning
and Zoning Board.
      (5)   Upon completion of the review and evaluation of the Civil Engineer,
Building Official and, if applicable, the Zoning Official, the recommendations
with regard to approval of the site plan shall be forwarded to the Planning and
Zoning Board, if review has been directed by this board. Otherwise, the site
plan and recommendations shall be forwarded directly to the Town Commission and
placed on the Commission's consent agenda. If directed by the Town Commission,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall review and evaluate the site plan as
provided by this section. Upon completion of review and evaluation, the site
plan shall be forwarded to the Town Commission, together with the comments and
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board and other staff reviewing
authorities. If review has not been directed by the Town Commission to be
conducted by the Planning and Zoning Board, the applicable Town staff report
and recommendations shall be forwarded directly to the Town Commission and
placed on the Commission's consent agenda. The Town Commission then shall
review all comments and recommendations and take appropriate action with regard
to the proposed site plan.
   (f)   Site plan requirements. Site plans shall include:
      (1)   Name, location, owner, and designer of the proposed development and
the intended use;
      (2)   Location of the site in relation to surrounding properties,
including the means of ingress and egress to such properties;
      (3)   Date, north arrow, and graphic scale (not less than one inch equals
20 feet);
      (4)   Location of all property lines, existing streets adjacent to the
subject property, easements, as well as proposed driveways and general lot
layout, which shall also be reflected on a professionally signed and sealed
survey;
      (5)   All proposed structures, major features, and fences, including all
existing outbuildings, accessory structures and trees (whether to be affected
by the construction or not) which shall also be reflected on a professionally
signed and sealed survey, shall be fully dimensioned, including the height of
all structures and the distance between principal and accessory structures on
siteand the distance between structures and driveways, and property or lot
lines;
      (6)   A professionally prepared drainage plan drawn to scale showing flow
paths and retention areas and certifying that retention requirements are met;
      (7)   A professionally prepared plan drawn to scale and depicting the
height dimension of the proposed structure, construction, or expansion or
redevelopment thereof.
   (g)   Final approval to site plan.
      (1)   Upon the site plan being approved and a building permit being
issued, the development shall be built substantially in accordance with the
site plan and the plans and specifications and in such a manner that no
requirements of the Land Development Code are violated. Deviations from the
approved site plan being made are subject to the approval of the Town Manager,
Civil Engineer and Building Official. Substantial deviations as defined by the
Town Manager or Civil Engineer or Building Official require approval of the
Town Commission and will follow the initial site plan approval process.
      (2)   Approval of a site plan shall become a binding condition on the use
of the land encompassed by the approved site plan under the applicable land use
classification. Upon any conveyance of any portion of such land encompassed by
the approved site plan, the grantee or transferee shall also be bound by the
approved site plan. All changes will be recorded with the original site plan
and retained at the Town Hall.
      (3)   Site plans for the 1-RS, 2-RS, and 3-RS zoning districts are
approved for 365 days. During that time a building permit must be applied for.
In the event a permit is not applied for within that 365-day period,
application must be made for a new site plan approval. Any change in the Land
Development Code that occurs during that period will be applicable to the new
site plan approval.
(Ord. 2010-01, adopted 3-17-10; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord.
2019-06, adopted 1-15-20)
§ 7A-52. SIGNS.
   (a)   Single-family districts:
      (1)   Permitted signs and regulations.
         a.   Signs permitted in 1-RS, 2-RS and 3-RS Single-Family Residential
Districts shall be by sign exceptions as per subsection (g).
   (b)   Multi-family districts (4-RM, 5-RMO). Single-family dwellings in this
district will follow sign criteria for single-family districts as per
subsection (g).
      (1)   Permitted signs and size regulations: One attached sign or one
freestanding sign shall be permitted per apartment complex. Attached signs
shall not exceed 25% of the total surface area of the wall to which the sign is
attached. In no case shall any attached sign exceed nine square feet in total
surface area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed nine square feet in total
area nor ten feet in height.
   (c)   Business districts (6-B, 7-C).
         Permitted signs and size regulations:
         a.   One attached sign per business establishment excluding signs
installed, affixed, or painted on windows or doors. Attached signs shall not
exceed 10% of the total surface area of the front of the building to which the
sign is attached or exceed 100 square feet in total surface area, whichever
amount shall be less. Measurement of fronts of buildings will include false
fronts and any mansard roof frontage. Signs shall not extend above the roof
line for buildings with a flat roof or above the eve line for buildings with a
sloped roof. Where multiple businesses occupy a building the cumulative total
of attached signs shall not exceed 10% of the surface area of the front of the
building or 100 square feet, whichever amount shall be less.
         b.   One freestanding sign per developed site. A maximum of 45 square
feet of cumulative sign area shall be permitted on a development site. One or
more businesses may advertise on the sign. If more than one sign is utilized on
a development site then the signs shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any
freestanding or shingle sign of a neighboring business. The maximum size of an
individual sign when multiple signs are used on a development site is 32 square
feet.
         c.   One shingle sign not to exceed 12 square feet per business
establishment is permitted in lieu of the freestanding sign in front.
         d.   All business establishments are permitted one shingle sign at the
rear of each establishment, provided said sign does not exceed 12 square feet.
         e.   Freestanding signs in the 6-B, 7-C and 8-B zoning districts shall
be monument style signs. The sign shall be constructed of materials that are
architecturally compatible with the primary building on the site. The sign
shall not have internal lighting. Spot lights illuminating the sign shall be
shielded so that the source of light is not visible to vehicular traffic or
pedestrians. Shingle signs are not permitted for special exceptions. To the
extent of any inconsistency in this section with other sections, with regard to
special exceptions this sub-paragraph supersedes other provisions in this
section.
   (d)   Residential-business districts (8-B).
         Permitted signs and size regulations:
         a.   One attached sign or one freestanding sign shall be permitted per
apartment complex.
         b.   One attached sign shall be permitted per business establishment.
Attached signs shall not exceed 10% of the total surface area of the wall to
which the sign is attached or exceed 16 square feet in total surface area
except that buildings with over 30 feet of frontage may add an additional four
square feet of sign for each ten linear feet of frontage over 30 feet. Attached
signs for special exception uses shall be limited to a maximum of 16 square
feet.
         c.   One freestanding sign per commercial structure shall be
permitted.
         d.   The total surface area of all freestanding signs shall not exceed
25 square feet or 15 feet in height. Such signs must be a minimum of 20 feet
from the front building line. Signs less than 20 feet are allowed but may not
exceed ten feet in height and nine square feet in surface area.
         e.   Freestanding signs for special exception uses shall be monument
style signs. The maximum size shall be 20 square feet. The maximum height shall
be eight feet. The minimum setback is five feet. Only one freestanding sign is
allowed per special exception site. The sign shall be constructed of materials
that are architecturally compatible with the primary building on the site. The
sign shall not have internal lighting. Spot lights illuminating the sign shall
be shielded so that the source of light is not visible to vehicular traffic or
pedestrians. To the extent of any inconsistency in this section with other
sections, with regard to special exceptions this sub-paragraph supersedes other
provisions in this section.
   (e)   Sign setbacks and additional regulations for all signs.
      (1)   Signs may be placed on the property line. No part of a sign may
overhang adjacent property or the right-of-way. In no case may a freestanding
or shingle sign be placed within 20 feet of an intersection unless the bottom
of said sign is ten feet or more from the ground.
      (2)   Attached signs affixed to a building shall be placed only on the
front facade or roof and shall not protrude above the roof line or beyond the
side corners of the front facade, project out more than two feet from the wall
or extend more than one-half the distance above the base of the roof to the
roof peak.
      (3)   Signs of any type may not be placed on the roof of any structure.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or permittee to fail to remove
any sign after ten days which advertises business, real estate or products no
longer conducted, available or for sale on the premises.
      (5)   Indirect lighting sources in use shall be shaded to eliminate glare
on roadways, streets or surrounding properties.
      (6)   Internally lit signs and signs illuminated by neon lights or bare
bulbs shall not exceed two footcandles illumination at any property line.
   (f)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   A sign or advertising structure existing within the Town limits on
the effective date of Ordinance 85-7, passed November 12, 1985, or a sign or
advertising structure existing in an area annexed to the Town after the
effective date of this Land Development Code, which, by its height, square foot
area, location, or use of structural support does not conform to the
requirements of this Land Development Code shall hereafter be termed
nonconforming.
      (2)   All nonconforming signs or advertising structures within the Town
limits shall be permitted to remain until such time as:
         a.   The sign or advertising structure becomes a hazard or
obstruction.
         b.   It becomes necessary to replace or rebuild the sign or building,
at which time it shall conform to this section.
      (3)   No conforming sign or sign structure shall be erected on the same
lot with an existing nonconforming sign until the nonconforming sign has been
removed.
   (g)   Sign exceptions. The following signs are exempt from the provisions of
this section:
      (1)   Memorial signs, tablets, plaques or names of buildings and date of
erection when the same are two square feet or less in size and are cut into any
masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other noncombustible material.
      (2)   Property numbers and names of occupants of premises having no
commercial connotations and shall not exceed one square foot of total surface
area.
      (3)   Legal notices and identification, informational or directional
signs erected or required by governmental bodies.
      (4)   Reserved.
      (5)   Traffic and other municipal signs, legal notices, and other safety
directional signs.
      (6)   Private directional signs when not more than two square feet in
surface area.
      (7)   Subdivision entrance signs not exceeding 32 square feet and not
having any part of the sign structure exceeding eight feet in height. No more
than two signs per entrance will be allowed.
      (8)   Bulletin boards and signs of churches, schools and clubs not
exceeding 32 square feet in area and not exceeding one per organization. If
located on a corner lot, a 32-square-foot sign facing each street is allowed.
      (9)   A construction or home improvement sign shall not exceed 16 square
feet in surface area, not to be illuminated, and shall be removed immediately
after completion of construction or improvement.
      (10)   Any dispensing mechanism positioned outside of a business premise
such as for ice cream, candy, soda, newspapers and such or for fuel pumps and
the like, with a trademark or identification; also, any lighting fixture for
the sole purpose of aiding in after-dark business operations or safety with a
trademark or identification.
      (11)   One real estate sign per interior lot or one sign facing each
thoroughfare per corner lot shall be allowed. Real estate signs shall not
exceed six square feet in total surface area or four feet in height.
      (12)   Political signs shall be permitted and display of the sign shall
conform to the following:
         a.   Maximum size of a political sign, four square feet.
         b.   Signs may not be placed on rights-of-way.
         c.   Political signs related to an election must be removed within 72
hours after the election.
   (h)   Prohibited signs.
      (1) All other signs not specifically or provisionally permitted herein,
such as, but not limited to, flashing signs, billboard signs and banner signs.
      (2)   No private sign (sign erected by a non-governmental person or
entity) is permitted on rights-of-way.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 4) (Ord. adopted 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 76-3,
adopted 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 85-7, adopted 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, adopted 5-12-
87; Am. Ord. 2004-09, adopted 11-17-04; Am. Ord. 2008-08, adopted 9-3-08; Am.
Ord. 2009-03, adopted 4-15-09; Am. Ord. 2011-02, adopted 6-15-11; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17) Penalty, see §
7A-177
§ 7A-53. FENCES AND WALLS.
   Limitations and restrictions. Fences and walls hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, or altered, shall meet the following requirements:
   (1)   Zoning requirements.
Zoning District Allowed Minimum Requirement
Zoning District Allowed            Minimum Requirement
1-RS            Fence, Hedge, Wall None
2-RS            Fence, Hedge, Wall None
3-RS            Fence, Hedge, Wall None
4-RM            Fence, Wall        Fence or Wall upon criteria listed in 7A-53
                                   (11) (separating residential property)
5-RMO           Fence, Wall        Fence or Wall upon criteria listed in 7A-53
                                   (11) (separating residential property)
6-B             Wall               Wall (separating all commercial uses from
                                   residential property)
7-C             Wall               Wall (separating all commercial uses from
                                   residential property)
                                   Fence (separating residential zoning
                                   districts [1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS] when the 8-
                                   B property is used for multi-family
8-B             Fence, Wall        residential use)
                                   Fence or Wall (separating zoning districts
                                   [1-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS] when a special exception
                                   has been granted for the 8-B property)
 
   (2)   Fence/wall height - all zoning districts except as otherwise provided.
      a.   Fences/walls on rear property lines may be erected up to a maximum
height of six (6) feet.
      b.   Fences/walls on interior side lot lines may be erected up to a
maximum height of six (6)feet from the rear property line up to the front
building line.
      c.   Portions of fences/walls that extend beyond the front building line
may be erected up to a maximum height of four (4) feet, except that on
residentially zoned lots abutting State Road A1A and Oak Street south of Ocean
Avenue fences/walls that extend beyond the front building line may be erected
up to a maximum height of six (6) feet. For any fence/wall installed on any lot
beyond the front building line on or after March 16, 2023, any portion of the
fence/wall running parallel to any right-of-way frontage shall have no less
than four (4) feet of vegetation planted on the right-of-way side of the fence/
wall.
      d.   Fences/walls on corner side lot lines may be erected up to a maximum
height of six (6) feet from the rear property line up to the front building
line.
      e.   Portions of fences/walls on corner side lot lines that extend beyond
the front building line may be erected up to a maximum height of four (4) feet,
except that on residentially zoned lots abutting State Road A1A and Oak Street
south of Ocean Avenue fences/walls that extend beyond the front building line
may be erected up to a maximum height of six (6) feet. For any fence/wall
installed on any lot beyond the front building line on or after March 16, 2023,
any portion of the fence/wall running parallel to any right-of-way frontage
shall have no less than four (4) feet of vegetation planted on the right-of-way
side of the fence/wall. Any fence/wall installed on any corner side lots that
extend beyond the front building line must meet the sight triangular clearance
requirements of § 7A-53(4) and § 7A-58 as may be amended.
      f.   Chain link fences, to a maximum height of ten (10) feet, may be
erected around tennis courts. The fences may be erected on the property line,
behind the front building line, or on the rear property line, if the fence does
not encroach upon any easements, rights-of-way, or similar encumbrances.
      g.   Ornamental entrances, fountains, plant containers, and similar
architectural features exceeding the wall height restriction will be permitted,
provided that:
         i.   No such feature shall exceed in height the wall height
restriction for that district plus one (1) foot;
         ii.   There shall be only one such feature in any front, side or rear
yard, except that there may be two (2) entrance gates; and
         iii.   Entrance gates must be designed such that they do not encroach
into any right-of-way.
   (3)   Fence/wall height measurement. The required fence/wall height is
measured from the finished grade of the land where the fence/wall is located
prior to berming or placement of fill in excess of that required by the Code of
Ordinances, to the highest point of the fence/wall, including posts and
ornamental and architectural features. A survey prepared by a licensed Florida
mapper and surveyor with reference elevations shall be submitted with all wall
and fence permit applications. Fence/wall height shall be measured from the
surveyed elevation prior to placement of fill.
   (4)   Vision clearance at corners. Fences/walls on corner lots shall not be
located within the triangular clearance area formed by lines that are measured
from the point of intersection of the rights-of-way a distance of 25 feet,
along the lot lines, parallel to each street and the line that connects the
endpoints of the two lines measured from the point of intersection of the
rights-of-way.
   (5)   Maintenance. All fences/walls shall be continuously maintained in a
good and non- deteriorated condition, free of graffiti, peeling or blistering
paint, broken or missing boards or posts, broken concrete block masonry, and
the like.
   (6)   Submission of plans and building permits. Plans showing the exact
location of all walls, fences, and hedges, and the proposed height,
construction, and materials to be used, shall be submitted to the Building
Official for approval, and the issuance of a permit for same upon payment for
the permit. Termite and rot-resistant durable wood or rust and corrosion
resistant material (or finish) shall be used.
   (7)   Enclosing of easements, rights-of-way, and sidewalks.
      (a)   In the event a lot owner fences or encloses any utility easement,
as a condition of any fence/wall permit, the lot owner agrees and understands
that utilities, rights-of-way, and sidewalks may need repair, maintenance,
installation or removal, from time to time, and that to do so it may be
necessary for utility companies or public and governmental agencies, or their
respective employees, agents, or independent contractors, to remove certain
portions of a lot owner’s fence/wall. The lot owner/occupant agrees as a permit
condition to hold harmless the Town, any other governmental agencies, and any
utility company, and their respective employees, agents, officials, and
independent contractors, in both their official and individual capacities, from
any costs related to fencing/walls or damages to fencing/walls arising from
removal, repair, installation or maintenance of any utilities, rights-of- way,
sidewalks or fences/walls. As used in this paragraph, the term utilities shall
include cable television companies.
      (b)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for a fence or wall
constructed on an easement or right-of-way the property owner shall sign an
affidavit stating agreement with the conditions of this section.
   (8)   Installation. Fencing/walls shall be installed in such a manner as not
to detract from the value of the adjoining residential property; in particular,
the fence/wall shall have the finished side face the adjoining property. Walls
and fences shall be installed abutting the property line in such a manner that
they are located entirely on the property of the owner of the structure.
   (9)   Fences/walls abutting beach or river access way or rights-of-way.
Fences/walls up to a height of six (6) feet are allowed adjacent to and
abutting any public or private motor vehicle or pedestrian access or right-of-
way connecting to the Indian River Lagoon or the beach along the Atlantic
Ocean. Said fence/wall may be located forward of the front building line;
provided that said fence shall not be of a chain-link type. All of said fence/
wall shall be setback a minimum of five (5) feet from any right-of-way line.
   (10)   Hedges.
      (a)   Where hedges are provided they shall be neatly trimmed and
maintained. Hedges are permitted to be planted and grown immediately adjacent
to fences.
      (b)   Where existing hedges are utilized in any zoning district as an
alternative to a fence, consistent with this code, on February 18, 1998; said
hedge may continue to be utilized as a substitute for a fence; provided, that
said hedge is at all times, living, neatly trimmed and maintained, and is
substantially opaque in that it operates to block light emissions to abutting
properties. At such time that a hedge used as a substitute for a fence pursuant
to this paragraph is no longer living or is in such condition that it is no
longer substantially opaque in that it operates to block light emissions to
abutting properties, then the property owner shall install a fence that
conforms to this section.
   (11)   Development sites that do not conform with §§
7A-34,
7A-35,
7A-36,
7A-37 or
7A-38 of the Land Development Code as of November 19, 2008 shall be required to
come into compliance when development, or redevelopment occurs that
represents50% or more of the current market value of the improvements contained
on the property, or a change in the use of the property consisting of
residential to commercial or residential to a special exception use.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 76-3,
passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 97-04, passed 3-16-98;
Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am. Ord. 2008-09, adopted 11-19-08; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23)
§ 7A-54. REDIVISION OF LOTS.
   No lot or group of lots shall be redivided in a manner to leave a lot or
lots of a size which cannot be used because of the inability to meet the
remaining requirements of the Land Development Code.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, 6) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-55. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   All buildings shall be constructed with the lowest floor level at
least 18 inches above the crown of the highest street perpendicular to the
foundation to which the property abuts. When an applicant for a building permit
submits plans for review by the Town of the proposed construction, the building
plans of the principal structure shall be fully dimensioned sealed to-scale
drawings, clearly showing street elevation, existing property elevation,
proposed finished floor elevation, FEMA flood zones and elevation, and maximum
height.
   (b)   All buildings shall be elevated as required by federal, state and
local minimum elevations. The greatest of the minimum elevations stipulated by
any of the governmental agencies with jurisdiction shall be required. Any
elevation of a building above the required elevation will be included in the
measurement of building height. In the absence of higher federal or state
elevations, the Town of Melbourne Beach requires minimum building elevations to
be measured from a point 18 inches above the crown of the street on which the
property abuts. In the event the existing grade of a property is higher than 18
inches above the crown of the road or higher than federal or state requirements
then the building height shall be measured from the existing grade.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 7) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2004-01,
adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17)
§ 7A-56. PROHIBITED CERTAIN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   One commercial vehicle of not more than 3/4-ton capacity may be stored in
any private garage in a residential district. Space shall not be leased for a
commercial vehicle.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 8) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-57. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (a)   (1)   No accessory structure shall be erected in any front yard.
Unless specifically defined in this chapter, no accessory structure shall be
erected in any side yard. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, no
accessory structure shall exceed the height of the main structure. Unless
specifically allowed in this chapter, no accessory structure other than a
utility shed shall be constructed within 15 feet of any lot line.
      (2)   Accessory structures may be constructed simultaneously with, or
following the construction of the main building and shall not be used until
after the principal structure has been fully erected. Erection of tents as
accessory structures is prohibited. No home occupation or business may be
conducted in any accessory structure. No accessory structure which contains
living quarters shall be constructed on any lot.
   (b)   Accessory buildings erected on lots fronting on two streets shall
conform to main structure setbacks for the rear yard.
   (c)   Trailers may be used for the storage of equipment during construction
provided such trailers are used only during the construction period. A
temporary trailer permit shall be required for all structures, and shall be
renewable every six months.
   (d)   All utility sheds require a building permit. Utility sheds may not be
larger than 160 square feet in floor area and 11.6 feet in height. Utility
sheds shall be substantially screened by a vegetative barrier or fence from the
front and side streets. Utility sheds must be behind the rear of the front line
of the principal structure. On any corner lot, the shed must be both behind the
rear of the front line of the principal structure and behind the building line
of the side of any structure abutting any street with a 2 feet setback. Utility
sheds are limited to one shed per address. Utility sheds may be placed on the
rear property line. The roof line has to be within the lot line of the property
line. No water hook to the utility shed is permitted.
   (e)   Swimming pools shall be constructed behind the front line of the
principal structure. Setbacks are as follows: Setbacks from the building line
shall be 5 feet; side and rear setbacks shall be ten feet; and screen enclosure
setbacks shall be 7½ feet. All swimming pools shall be enclosed as required by
the Florida Building Code. (See § 7A-53(8).)
   (f)   Portable storage containers - limitations and restrictions.
      (1)   Portable temporary storage containers shall be allowed in single
family residential zoning districts subject to the following:
         a.   The property shall be improved with a single family residence.
         b.   The container shall remain on the property a maximum of 15 days,
including the day of delivery and removal.
         c.   A container may be delivered to a site a maximum of three times
per calendar year.
         d.   A minimum of 30 days shall elapse between placements of a
container on a property.
         e.   The container shall be placed on a driveway or in the side or
rear yard.
         f.   When placed on the driveway within the front setback area the
container shall be located so that pedestrian and vehicular traffic is not
obstructed and so that the view of an operator of a motor vehicle entering or
exiting a right-of-way is not obstructed.
         g.   In the case of a Town-wide declaration establishing emergency
conditions the container may remain on a site for the length of time of the
civil emergency established pursuant to §
16-4 of the Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, but in no event longer than 60
days from the termination date of the emergency unless extended by the Town
Commission.
         h.   In the event the Town of Melbourne Beach is within the area of a
hurricane watch the container must be removed within 24 hours of the issuance
of the watch or tied down in a manner sufficient to withstand sustained winds
of 160 miles per hour.
      (2)   Portable temporary storage containers used in connection with
permitted construction activity may be located in any zoning district subject
to the following conditions:
         a.   The container shall not encroach on sidewalks, rights-of-way,
adjacent properties, or obstruct the view of motorists.
         b.   The container may remain on the lot for the duration of
construction authorized by an active building permit.
         c.   The container shall be removed within 30 days of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy or final inspection.
         d.   The container shall be a maximum of eight feet in width, 16 feet
in length, and eight feet in height.
         e.   Hazardous materials including flammable and biohazard substances
shall not be stored in the containers.
         f.   In the event the Town of Melbourne Beach is within the area of a
hurricane watch the container must be removed within 24 hours of the issuance
of the watch or tied down in a manner sufficient to withstand sustained winds
of 160 miles per hour.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 9) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-
14-07; Am. Ord. 2006-17, adopted 3-21-07; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17;
Am. Ord. 2024-01, adopted 7-17-24)
§ 7A-58. VISION CLEARANCE AT CORNERS.
   Vision clearance at corners. Fences/walls on corner lots shall not be
located within the triangular clearance area formed by lines that are measured
from the point of intersection of the rights-of-way a distance of 25 feet,
along the lot lines, parallel to each street and the line that connects the
endpoints to the two lines measured from the point of intersection of the
rights-of-way.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII § 10) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2006-12, adopted 8-14-07; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23)
§ 7A-59. EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Amateur radio antennas. Except as otherwise provided by Federal or
state law or determinations of that law, an amateur radio station antenna
structure, such as but not limited to a HAM radio station, may be erected at
heights and dimensions sufficient to accommodate amateur service communications
upon the showing of a need for a reasonable accommodation with regard to the
Town’s height regulations for reception or transmission purposes by the
applicant. Consistent with Federal administrative determinations, Town code
provisions relating to height are not intended to preclude amateur service
communications.
   (b)   Waiver from height regulations.
      (1)   Chimneys, cupolas, spires, and television antennae. For the purpose
of permitting the placement of non-structural and/or non- functional decorative
type structures on the roof of residential buildings that would exceed the
maximum height permitted in a zoning district, such structures shall not be
included in the measurement of height provided all of the following conditions
are met:
         a.   The structure is decorative or, in the placement of a chimney or
television antenna only, may be functional.
         b.   The structure is neither habitable, air conditioned, finished,
nor occupiable space.
         c.   The structure conforms to the specific definitions and conditions
listed below.
         d.   The part of the chimney that rises above the roof line shall
comply with but not exceed the minimum height in the Florida Building and
Safety Codes.
         e.   Cupolas exceeding the maximum building height shall be limited as
follows:
            1.   Maximum dimensions shall be 36 inches by 36 inches by 36
inches.
            2.   A maximum of four cupolas exceeding the allowed building
height are permitted per structure.
         f.   Spires that exceed the maximum building height shall have a
maximum base of 24 inches by 24 inches and a maximum height of 42 inches.
         g.   Television antennas shall be permitted to exceed the maximum
allowed height of a structure by 56 inches.
         h.   Elevator towers and equipment rooms shall be allowed to exceed
the maximum building height by a maximum of ten feet. Any elevator tower and
equipment room shall be the minimum size and height necessary to accommodate
the elevator utilized. Documentation of the necessary height and size of the
elevator tower and equipment room shall be provided by a licensed elevator
contractor.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 11) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2004-01,
adopted 9-15-04; Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17)
§ 7A-60. STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street, and shall have a minimum of 25 feet of unobstructed access for
safe and convenient servicing, fire protection, and required off-street
parking.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 12) (Ord., passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 7A-61. ESTABLISHMENTS LICENSED TO SELL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATIONS.
   No establishment licensed to sell alcoholic or intoxicating beverages may be
located within 500 feet of any school, church, temple, synagogue or other
permanent place of worship within the Town. No school, church, temple,
synagogue or other permanent place of worship shall be permitted to locate
within 500 feet of any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic or intoxicating
beverages. The 500-foot dimension shall be measured from the nearest point on
the boundary of the lot on which such establishment is proposed to be located
to the lot on which such establishment licensed to sell alcoholic or
intoxicating beverages, or school, church, temple, synagogue, or other
permanent place of worship, as the case may be, is located.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 13) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-62. HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (a)   In any district where a home occupation is allowed, it shall be
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling
purposes and shall not change the character thereof. When permitted, home
occupations shall be conducted in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupations.
      (2)   There shall be no display of goods visible from any street or
neighboring property.
      (3)   Home occupations shall be allowed on either the first or second
floor of any residence. However, no home occupation shall occupy an area
greater than 25% of the area of that floor on which the home occupation is
conducted, exclusive of the area of any open or similar space not suited or
intended for occupancy as living quarters. No rooms which have been constructed
as an addition to the residence, nor any attached garage or porch which has
been converted into living quarters, shall be considered as floor area until
two years after the date of completion thereof.
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in an accessory building;
such occupation must be conducted in the main residence of the owner and
proprietor.
      (5)   No motor power other than electric motors shall be used in
conjunction with such home occupations. The total horsepower of such motors
shall not exceed three horsepower, or one horsepower for any single motor.
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises or
causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
      (7)   Occupations which generate greater volumes of traffic than would
normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, such as barbershops, beauty
shops, public dining or tea room facilities, antique or gift shops,
fortunetelling or clairvoyance, and repair shops are prohibited.
      (8)   The following uses or activities are not permitted home
occupations: grow house; marijuana dispensary; mobile marijuana dispensary; or
telephone call center, supply or vehicle storage for a marijuana dispensary or
mobile marijuana dispensary.
   (b)   A person desiring to conduct a home occupation in a district where
such use is permitted shall first apply to the Building Official, and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Location of residence wherein the home occupation, if approved,
will be conducted;
      (3)   Total floor area of the first floor of the residence;
      (4)   Area of room or rooms to be utilized in the conduct of the home
occupation;
      (5)   A sketch showing the floor plan and the area thereof to be utilized
for the conduct of the home occupation;
      (6)   The nature of the home occupation sought to be approved; and
      (7)   The days and hours of operation.
Upon compliance with the foregoing procedure, the Building Official shall issue
a permit for such home occupation. Any home occupation permit may be revoked by
the Building Official 30 days after written notice has been given, when it has
been determined that the home occupation has become a public nuisance.
   (c)   The Building Official may request a public hearing before the Board of
Adjustment when in doubt concerning the compliance of the proposed home
occupation with the criteria outlined in division (a) of this section.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 14) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-
29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-62.1. MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES.
   Marijuana dispensaries and mobile marijuana dispensaries are banned and
prohibited within the Town limits of the Town of Melbourne Beach.
(Ord. 2014-08, passed 10-29-14; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord.
2018-03, adopted 8-15-18)
§ 7A-63. TOWNHOUSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Townhouse deed restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be incumbent upon the owner or developer of a townhouse
project to execute, file and record with the Clerk of the County Circuit Court
a covenant of deed restrictions for townhouse development in the Town, as a
condition for the approval of the site plan and the issuance of a building
permit for the townhouse development. However, same shall meet all
prerequisites as herein stated.
      (2)   All of the described properties shall be held, sold and all of the
restrictions and imitations are intended to be and shall be taken as a
consideration for any deed of conveyance hereafter made, subject to zoning
ordinances, certain easements, restrictions, covenants and other conditions
which are for the purpose of protecting the value and desirability of, and
which shall run with, the real property and be binding on all parties having
any right, title or interest in the described properties or any part thereof,
their heirs, successors and assigns and shall serve to the benefit of each
owner thereof to protect them and the property rights of the other citizens of
the Town.
      (3)   The developer of the townhouse properties shall also form a not-
for-profit incorporated townhouse owners association for the purpose of
administering the operation and management of the townhouse properties. The
association shall be composed of the owners of record of any lot and townhouse
which is a part of the townhouse properties. The bylaws of the townhouse owners
association shall specifically delineate the property rights and obligations of
each owner, his voting rights and such special and maintenance assessments as
may be made.
      (4)   Further, a stipulation shall be made for the architectural control
of the physical properties such as alteration or addition to buildings; the
erection of fences or walls; the restriction of nuisances and offensive use of
premises; the keeping of pets; erection of unauthorized clotheslines, antennas,
or planting of shrubs; and the storage of inoperable vehicles and the repair
thereto. It shall be stated that the general rules of law will apply to party
walls, arbitration of disputes, and the enforcement of covenants and
amendments. However, in all cases, such association bylaws, covenants and
provisions shall be subordinate to this code of ordinances.
   (b)   Site plan approval. In addition to meeting the criteria in §
7A-51, all site plans for townhouse construction shall be subject to review and
approval by the Town Manager and Town Attorney prior to the issuance of a
building permit. The Town Manager and Town Attorney shall review the covenants
and deed restrictions to assure that they will achieve the purposes and
requirements set forth herein and are in proper legal form.
   (c)   Townhouse lot and structure requirements. Lot and structure
requirements for townhouse construction are based on the entire group of
townhouses rather than the individual units, except as follows: The individual
townhouse units shall have a minimum of 1,300 square feet living area with a
minimum width of 18 feet.
   (d)   Townhouse use and structures. Townhouses are hereby authorized for
construction in 5-RMO, 4-RM, and 8-B Districts in the Town.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. VII, § 15) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 78-5,
passed 3-14-78; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 7A-64. ANIMALS; PETS.
   Pets, as defined in §
1A-3, are permitted in residential areas. Wild animals, as defined in §
1A-3, are not permitted to be kept by persons in the Town.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-65. BREEZEWAYS.
   (a)   Breezeways shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   These requirements shall be applicable only to the 5-RMO, 6-B, and
9-I zoning districts.
      (2)   A minimum of 25% of the ocean frontage measured along the right-of-
way shall be established as a breezeway.
      (3)   Fences, walls and landscaping meeting the requirements of §§
7A-35,
7A-36, and
7A-53(8) and (9) shall be permitted in the breezeway and shall not be
considered to be non- conforming. Trees shall be permitted to be planted within
breezeways; provided, that trees are not aligned in such as way as to form a
“wall” of trees.
      (4)   Breezeways shall run parallel to side or corner side lot lines as
applicable.
      (5)   The breezeway shall remain otherwise unobstructed.
      (6)   Lots occupied by a single-family dwelling and any accessory
structures shall be exempt from this section during the time that the single-
family dwelling is the primary use of the lot.
   (b)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Notwithstanding §§
7A-80 through 7A-87, inclusive, fences, walls and landscape designs within
breezeways located within the 5-RMO, 6-B, and 9-I zoning districts on January
1, 2008, may continue to exist and shall be exempt from division (a) hereof;
provided, that said fences, walls, and landscape designs are not materially
altered, enlarged, extended, or moved in whole or in part. However, any fence,
wall, or landscape design may be altered to decrease its nonconformity. This
provision shall also apply to replacement walls erected pursuant to §
7A-53(12); provided, that the wall being replaced was in existence prior to
January 1, 2008, and provided that the replacement wall is not enlarged or
extended to be longer or larger than the wall being replaced.
      (2)   The Building Official shall document and maintain a file of the
existence in January 1, 2008, of any fences, walls, and landscape designs
within breezeways in the 5-RMO, 6-B, and 9-I zoning districts as of January 1,
2008.
      (3)   When the nonconforming portion of any fence, wall or element of a
landscape design within a breezeway in the 5-RMO, 6-B, or 9-I zoning district
is discontinued, removed, destroyed by weather or other act of God, or ceases
for a period of more than 180 consecutive days, or for 18 non-consecutive, non-
calendar months (one month = 30 days) within any 1,095-day (three non-calendar
year) period, and the property owner has not diligently pursued replacement or
resumption thereof, the nonconforming portion of the fence, wall, or landscape
design shall not thereafter be reestablished except in conformance with
division (a) and all other regulations in the Land Development Code.
(Am. Ord. 2007-10, adopted 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-66. STREET ENDINGS.
   All public rights-of-way in the Town which terminate or end at the shoreline
of the Indian River or the beach line adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean are hereby
reserved by the Town for use by the public for ocean and river access. This
shall apply to any street, roadway or avenue within the Town, whether paved or
unpaved and whether used or not used by vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-67. TRAILERS, BOATS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   General parking restrictions. Trailers, boats and recreational
vehicles which do not exceed 45 feet in overall length may be parked, stored or
stopped on any lot in the Town provided the following provisions are complied
with:
      (1)   Such trailers, boats, and recreational vehicles, or any
combinations thereof, shall not be used for residential, office or commercial
purposes.
      (2) Such trailers, boats and recreational vehicles, or any combinations
thereof, shall not be connected in any manner to utilities, except for
connection to electric service for the purpose of charging batteries or
maintenance only. The use of trailers and recreational vehicles for sleeping,
housekeeping or living quarters while so parked shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Such trailers, boats and recreational vehicles shall be located to
the rear of the front building line and in no event, less than 25 feet from the
front lot line, except for purposes of loading and unloading as provided for in
§
7A-67(c)(1). Additionally, on any corner lot, no trailer, boat or recreational
vehicle shall be located in front of the building line of any side of the
structure which abuts a street, unless the boat, trailer or recreational
vehicle is substantially screened, but not completely shielded from view, by a
vegetative barrier or fence.
      (4)   Such trailers, boats, and recreational vehicles shall not be parked
on any part of the road right-of-way.
      (5)   Such trailers, if collapsible, shall be parked or stored in a
collapsed condition only.
      (6)   The sites upon which such trailers, boats, and recreational
vehicles are parked shall be well-kept and free from weeds and other growth.
      (7)   Any deviations from the provisions of this subsection (a) shall be
by special permit issued by the Town Commission setting forth the specific use
to be made and the term of such use.
      (8)   Recreational vehicle side-room extensions may only be extended for
the purposes of loading and unloading and shall be collapsed between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (9)   For purposes of this subsection (a), a boat shall be measured from
tongue of the trailer to the tip of the extension of the stern or propeller of
an attached engine.
   (b)   Parking cargo trailers restricted. Cargo trailers shall not be parked
in the Town, except for
purposes of loading and unloading for no more than 48 hours in any seven
consecutive day period, unless stored fully within a garage, carport or fenced
yard.
   (c)   Temporary parking; placement, storage, or parking on vacant lots.
      (1)   Parking trailers, boats, and recreational vehicles on residential
lots prohibited, with exceptions. Trailers, boats, and recreational vehicles
which exceed 45 feet in overall length, whether powered or unpowered, shall not
be parked, stored, or placed on any residential lot located within the Town
except for purposes of active loading and delivery. Loading and unloading of
any trailer, boat, recreational vehicle or combination thereof exceeding 45
feet in overall length or not parked in compliance of with subsection (a) of
this section shall not exceed 48 hours in any seven consecutive day period.
      (2)   No trailer, boat, recreational vehicle, or camper, regardless of
size, may be parked, placed, or stored on any vacant lot. No trailer, boat,
recreational vehicle, or camper, regardless of size, may be used as a place to
live, temporarily or permanently, on any vacant lot. For the purposes of this
paragraph, a VACANT LOT is a lot without a structure used as a principal
permitted use or use for which a special exception has been issued.
(Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2009-07, adopted 8-19-09; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2020-03, adopted 10-21-20)
§ 7A-68. SATELLITE ANTENNAS.
   Satellite antennas are allowed in all zoning districts. Satellite antennas
with a diameter of 24 inches or less shall be installed according to
manufacturer's instructions and be located to the rear of the front building
line. Satellite antennas which are greater than 24 inches in diameter will be
considered accessory structures and must be installed according to the
following conditions:
   (1)   Satellite antennas may not be mounted on the roof or wall of any
building.
   (2)   Satellite antennas must be located to the rear of the front building
line.
   (3)   Satellite antennas must be set back from all property lines a distance
equal to the higher of the height of the peak of the antenna or supporting
structure.
   (4)   Satellite antennas and their supporting structures must be designed to
withstand winds of 110 miles per hour.
(Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 95-01, passed 7-19-95; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-69. DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any business establishment to display any
merchandise held for sale to the public except within the building where said
business is located. However, the Town Commission, in special circumstances to
avoid an injustice or the working of a practical difficulty, may grant special
permission to store or display merchandise for renewable periods of up to one
year upon request from any business. Such permission is freely revokable at the
will of the Town Commission.
(Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-70. FEDERAL AND STATE ELEVATION CERTIFICATES AND DOCUMENTATION.
   (a)   Applications for construction of any new structure or substantial
improvement to an existing structure located with Flood Zones A1 - A-130, AE,
AH, A (with BFE), VE, V-1 - V-130, and V (with BFE) shall be accompanied by a
completed FEMA Elevation Certificate that is signed and sealed by a land
surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify elevation
certification.
   (b)   Applications for construction of any new habitable structure or
substantial improvement to a habitable structure that are located wholly or
partially seaward of the Coastal Construction Control Line shall include
documentation from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection that
establishes the lowest elevation of the lowest allowable horizontal member of
the structure.
(Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-71. RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING.
   All artificial exterior lighting and all lighting emanating from inside any
primary or accessory structure on any residential lot shall be positioned or
shielded to prevent glare or spillover onto adjacent properties and to prevent
any illumination of adjacent properties that is objectionable to a person of
ordinary and reasonable sensibilities or that otherwise creates a nuisance that
interferes with the quiet enjoyment of any adjacent or neighboring property.
This section shall apply to all lots in the l-RS, 2-RS, 3-RS, 4-RM, and 5-RMO
zoning districts. This section does not apply to street lighting in public or
private rights-of-way or adjacent utility easements. Residential properties
shall also be in compliance with marine turtle protection lighting standards
found in Article II of Chapter 40 of the Town Code, as applicable.
(Ord. 2019-05, adopted 9-18-19)
§§ 7A-72.–7A-79. RESERVED.
 ARTICLE V. NONCONFORMING USES  
§ 7A-80. INTENT.
   (a)   Within the districts established by this chapter, or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exists lots, structures, uses of land and
structures and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was
passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under
the terms of this chapter or future amendments.
   (b)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuation. Such
uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-81. LOTS OF RECORD.
   (a)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single platted lot that is of record on September 26, 1972, the original date
of adoption of this provision. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not
of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership. This provision
shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area,
width, or depth, or any combination thereof, that are generally applicable in
the district, provided that yard setbacks of the lot shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
   (b)   If two or more platted lots or combinations of platted lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record on September 26, 1972, at
the time of original adoption of this provision, and if all or part of the lots
do not meet the requirements for lot width, area, or depth or any combination
thereof as established by this Land Development Code, the lands involved shall
be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this Land
Development Code, and no portion of the parcel shall be used or sold which does
not meet lot width and area requirements established by this Land Development
Code, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any
lot with width, area, or depth or any combination thereof below the
requirements in this Land Development Code.
   (c)   In any district where non-residential buildings and uses are
permitted, or permitted by special exception, said buildings and uses may be
erected and conducted on a platted lot or lots that were of record on or before
September 26, 1972, the original date of adoption of the town's zoning
requirements now codified as
Chapter 7A. This provision shall apply even though such lot or lots fail to
meet the requirement for area, width, or depth, or any combination thereof,
that are generally applicable to the district, provided that yard setbacks of
the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 3) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2010-02, adopted 3-17-10; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-
17)
§ 7A-82. USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the original effective date of adoption of this Land Development
Code, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the
terms of this Land Development Code as enacted, such use may be continued, so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on September 26, 1972, or on
the effective date of an amendment to the Land Development Code making said use
nonconforming; unless such use is changed to a use permitted in the district in
which such use is located;
   (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use on September 26, 1972,
or on the effective date of an amendment to the Land Development Code making
said use nonconforming;
   (3)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 180 consecutive days, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by the Land Development Code for the
district in which such land is located; and
   (4)   No additional structure shall be erected in connection with or in
support of such nonconforming use of land.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 4) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-83. NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists on September 26, 1972, or on the effective
date of an amendment to the Land Development Code making said structure
nonconforming, that could not be built under the terms of the Land Development
Code by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   (1)   No such structures may be enlarged or altered in any way which
increases any existing nonconformity. This includes but is not limited to
increasing the height, width, or length of any structure that does not meet the
setback. Any enlargements or alterations must meet all zoning requirements such
as setbacks, heights, and location.
   (2)   Any structure or portion thereof may be altered to decrease its
nonconformity.
   (3)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of the appraised value of the structure as determined by the Brevard
County Property Appraiser at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this Land Development
Code.
   (4)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-84. NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES IN COMBINATION.
   (a)   If a lawful use involving individual structures, or of a structure and
premises in combination, exists on September 26, 1972, or on the effective date
of an amendment to the Land Development Code making said use nonconforming,
that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this Land
Development Code, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this code
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended through any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use existing on
September 26, 1972, or on the effective date of an amendment making same
nonconforming, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside
such building.
      (3)   Any structure, or structure and land in use if superseded by a
permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which such structure is located and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be
resumed;
      (4)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six consecutive months or for
18 months during any three-year period (except when government action impedes
access to the premises), the structure, or structure and premises in
combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this chapter
is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50% of the appraised value of
the structure as determined by the Brevard County Property Appraiser at time of
destruction.
      (6)   Nonconformities not involving the use of a principal structure (for
example, open storage, building supplies, vehicles, mobile homes, implement and
machinery storage, junkyards, commercial animal yards, and the like), shall be
discontinued within two years of the effective date of this Land Development
Code.
      (7)   The casual, intermittent or temporary use of land or structures
shall not be sufficient to establish the existence of a nonconforming use. Such
use shall not be validated by the adoption of this Land Development Code,
unless it complies with the terms of this Land Development Code.
   (b)   Drive-in, drive-up, or drive-through facility. The use of a structure
and premises as a drive-in, drive-up, or drive-through use is specifically
prohibited in the 6-B, 7-C, and 8-B zoning districts. As of January 1, 2013,
two drive-in, drive-up, or drive-through uses and structures existed in the
town, one in the 7-C zoning district and one in the 8-B zoning district. Those
uses constitute a non-conforming use of the premises and structure and also
constitute an accessory use to a principal use and structure bank and financial
institution. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, if at any time
the use of the bank and financial institution to which the drive-in, drive-up,
or drive-through facility is an accessory use is changed to any other use,
either in whole or in part and regardless of whether the new principal use is
permitted, the accessory use will be deemed to be discontinued or abandoned,
and the structure, or structure and use of the premises in combination, shall
not thereafter be used as a drive-through.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 6) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2013-05, adopted 9-18-13; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-
17)
§ 7A-85. NONCONFORMING CHARACTERISTICS OF USE.
   (a)   Characteristics of use, such as off-street parking, off-street
loading, and landscaping requirements, shall be interpreted to be synonymous
with a part of the nonconforming classification of uses and structures legally
permitted and existing on September 26, 1972, or on the date when the use was
rendered nonconforming to the LDC.
   (b)   Nonconforming lots, structures, uses and characteristics of use in
combination. If on the effective date of this code, a lot of record, structure,
use or characteristics of use of land, in any combination thereof, exists that
would not be permitted under the terms of this code, but was lawful at the time
of its original existence, that use may be continued unless otherwise deemed
abandoned or terminated or required to be eliminated or brought into
conformance by other applicable provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-86. REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or
on the repair or replacement of non- bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or
plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of the current replacement value of
the building, provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed on
September 26, 1972, or on the effective date of any amendment making said
building or use nonconforming, shall not be increased.
   (b)   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 7) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-87. USES UNDER SPECIAL EXCEPTION PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Any use for which a special exception has been approved by the Board
of Adjustment shall be deemed to be a conforming use on the subject premises so
long as the special exception is allowed in the zoning district as per this
code.
   (b)   If a special exception use is eliminated from this code for the
applicable zoning district, a previously granted special exception shall no
longer be deemed to be a conforming use, but will henceforth be deemed to be a
non-conforming use.
   (c)   Boundaries.
      (1)   No special exception shall be expanded or enlarged beyond the
boundaries of the tract or parcel of land as specifically defined in the
special exception without Board of Adjustment approval;
      (2)   Non-conforming uses in existence prior to October 31, 1990 (with or
without an approved special exception) shall not be expanded or enlarged beyond
the boundaries of the tract or parcel of land without Board of Adjustment
approval.
   (d)   Structures.
      (1)   No structure constituting any part of any Board of Adjustment
approved special exception may be expanded or enlarged without Board of
Adjustment approval;
      (2)   No non-conforming structure which has been in existence prior to
October 31, 1990 (with or without an approved special exception) may be
expanded or enlarged without Board of Adjustment approval;
      (3)   Structures associated with special exceptions approved by the Board
of Adjustment on or after October 31, 1990 shall not be expanded or enlarged
without Board of Adjustment approval of the site plan.
   (e)   After January 1, 2015, all special exceptions approved by the Board of
Adjustment shall be conditioned upon development and use consistent with the
site plan accompanying the approved special exception.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. V, § 8) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 90-9, passed
10-31-90; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2019-06, adopted 1-15-
20)
§§ 7A-88. – 7A-99. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. AMENDMENTS
§ 7A-100. REGULATIONS; RESTRICTIONS AND BOUNDARIES MAY BE AMENDED.
   The zoning district boundaries and site specific regulations may be amended,
supplemented, changed or repealed in the manner prescribed by law.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIII) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-101. PROCEDURE.
   (a)   A district boundary change, zoning map amendment, or change in the
zoning classification, which are applicable to a particular parcel of land and
not an entire zoning district may be initiated by:
      (1)   The owner or owners of at least 75% of the property described in
the application;
      (2)   Duly authorized agents evidenced by a power of attorney;
      (3)   Town Commission;
      (4)   Planning and Zoning Board; or
      (5)   Any department or agency of the Town.
   (b)   All proposed amendments shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Board which shall study such proposals to determine:
      (1)   The need and justification for the change;
      (2)   The effect of the change, if any, on the particular property and on
surrounding properties;
      (3)   The amount of undeveloped land in the general area and in the Town
having the same classification as that requested;
      (4)   The proposed change in relationship to the purpose and intent of
the present zoning and the zoning requested; and
      (5)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to and consistency with
the Comprehensive Plan.
   (c)   Public Notice.
      (1)   No recommendation for change of the zoning classification
applicable to a particular parcel of land or amendment of the zoning map
adopted by §
7A-15 may be made by the Planning and Zoning Board until due public notice has
been given of a public hearing. For purposes of this sub- section, due public
notice consists of notice of a public hearing which shall be given at least 15
days in advance of the hearing by the publication in a newspaper of regular and
general circulation in the Town and notice shall be posted at the Town Hall.
Said notice shall disclose the date, time, and place of the public hearing; the
current zoning designation; the proposed zoning designation; that the rezoning
application may be reviewed by the public; the location, days, and time during
which the application may be examined by the public; notice that the Planning
and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency will accept written or oral comment from
the public with regard to the application; and notice that anyone wishes to
appeal any action of the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency may
need a verbatim transcript of the public hearing and that said person shall be
responsible for furnishing said transcript. No recommendation for change shall
be made by the Planning and Zoning Board unless and until the public hearing
has been advertised.
      (2)   Adherence to the requirements to amend the land development code
which are set forth in §
1A-5 need not be followed for zoning map amendments or recordation of the same
in §
7A-15. The provisions of this section must be followed in such cases.
   (d)   For proposed zoning changes of the zoning district designation of a
particular parcel or parcels of land, a notice of the public hearing shall be
mailed to the property owners of record of a parcel or parcels of land any part
of which is located within a radius of 500 feet of the parcel of land to be
rezoned; however, failure to receive such notice shall not affect any action or
proceedings taken hereunder. Public rights-of-way shall not be construed as
parcels of land. At a minimum said notice shall be deposited in the first
class, U.S. mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to the owners of
parcels of land, at least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing. The
names and addresses of the owners of parcels of land any part of which are
located within 500 feet shall be obtained from the current records of the
Brevard County Property Appraiser. Said notice shall contain a map depicting
the location of the parcel of land to be rezoned; the date, time, and place of
the public hearing; the current zoning designation; the proposed zoning
designation; that the rezoning application may be reviewed by the public; the
location, days, and time during which the application may be examined by the
public; notice that the Planning and Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency will
accept written or oral comment from the public with regard to the application;
and notice that anyone who wishes to appeal any action of the Planning and
Zoning Board/Local Planning Agency may need a verbatim transcript of the public
hearing and that said person shall be responsible for furnishing said
transcript.
   (e)   When any proposed change of a zoning district boundary lies within 500
feet of the boundary of an incorporated or unincorporated area notice shall be
forwarded to the Planning Board or governing body of such incorporated or
unincorporated areas in order to give such body an opportunity to appear at the
hearing and express its opinion on the effect of the district boundary change.
   (f)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit the request for change or
amendment to the Town Commission with written reasons for its recommendation.
   (g)   The Town Commission shall hold public hearings on the recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Board, giving public notice as required by State
Statute.
   (h)   Any zoning approval given by the Town Commission shall be by 80%
favorable vote of the total Town Commission.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-102. LIMITATIONS.
   No proposal for a zoning change or amendment affecting particular property
or properties shall contain conditions, limitations, or requirements not
applicable to all other property in the district to which the particular
property is proposed to be rezoned, except where such conditions, limitations,
or requirements are voluntarily proffered by an applicant proposing a zoning
change or amendment as part of a statutory or non-statutory binding development
agreement.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2020-04, adopted 9-16-20)
§ 7A-103. BINDING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (a)   For purposes of this chapter, binding development agreements are
defined as agreements voluntarily proffered by applicants proposing a zoning
change on a particular property or properties that propose conditions,
limitations, or requirements not applicable to all other property in the
district to which the particular property or properties is proposed to be
rezoned. Binding development agreements may only be utilized in proposals for
zoning amendments and may only propose conditions, limitations, or requirements
that are more restrictive than those found in the zoning district to which a
property or properties is proposed to be rezoned. A binding development
agreement may provide for specific conditions of site development or
dedications, such as those reflected on site or subdivision plans, but only to
the extent that such plans are proposed as part of a proposal for rezoning.
Binding development agreements man be either statutory or non-statutory.
      (1)   Statutory binding development agreements. Statutory binding
development agreements are those adopted in accordance with the Florida Local
Government Development Agreement Act. F.S. §§ 163.3220 through 163.3243, or as
may be amended.
      (2)   Non-statutory binding development agreements. Non-statutory binding
development agreements are those adopted under the authority of the home rule
powers of the town under Article VIII, § 2 of the Constitution of the State of
Florida and F.S. Ch. 166.
   (b)   An applicant proposing a zoning change or amendment affecting a
particular property or properties may voluntarily proffer conditions,
limitations, or requirements not applicable to all other properties in the
district to which the particular property or properties is proposed to be
rezoned by way of a statutory or non-statutory binding development agreement.
   (c)   Statutory and non-statutory binding development agreements may be
considered by the Planning and Zoning Board and the Town Commission as part of
any proposal for zoning change or amendment affecting particular a property or
properties.
   (d)   An approved statutory or non-statutory binding development agreement
shall be recorded in the public records of Brevard County, Florida and shall
act as a restrictive covenant which runs with the particular property or
properties subject to the binding development agreement.
   (e)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the initial term of a statutory or
non-statutory binding development agreement may not exceed 30 years, but may be
automatically extended for an unlimited number of successive defined renewal
periods upon the mutual consent of the town and the applicant for rezoning at
the time of adoption of the binding development agreement after an initial
public hearing. A public hearing for the consideration of a binding development
agreement man be noticed and held in conjunction with a public hearing for a
proposal for rezoning.
   (f)   Nothing in this section shall obligate the Planning and Zoning Board
or Town Commission to consider or approve any proposed binding development
agreement. Nor shall this section be interpreted to create any independent
cause of action against the Town of Melbourne Beach arising from the denial of
a proposed binding development agreement by the Town Commission.
(Ord. 2020-04, adopted 9-16-20)
§ 7A-104. RECONSIDERATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   When a proposed change in district boundaries has been acted upon by the
Town Commission and disapproved or failed to pass, such proposed change, in the
same or substantially similar form, shall not be reconsidered by the Town
Commission for a period of one year. Such restriction shall not apply to the
property owner if the original request was initiated by the Town Commission,
Planning and Zoning Board or any department or agency of the Town.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-105.–7A-119. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES
§ 7A-120. FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees and charges in connection with matters pertinent to zoning petitions,
special exceptions, variances and appeals shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the Town Commission.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIV, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 81-6,
passed 5-12-81; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 7A-121. PAYMENT OF FEES, COSTS AND CHARGES PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMITS OR
CERTIFICATES.
   No permit or certificate shall be issued and no inspection, public notice,
or other action relative to zoning, petitions for changes in zoning, or
appeals, shall be instituted until after applicable fees, costs, and charges
have been paid. When, in accordance with the provisions of this section, a fee
is paid and application is filed, there shall be no return or rebate of any
funds so received, regardless of the Town's determination in the matter
involved. All fees, costs and charges shall be, upon collection, deposited in
the General Fund of the Town.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XIV, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-122. – 7A-134. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 7A-135. ESTABLISHMENT; TERMS AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board is a five- member body plus two
alternates established by the Town Commission. The term of office of the first
members of the Board shall be one year for one member, two years for two
members, three years for two members and three years for each alternate with
appointments thereafter to be for a term of three years for each member. The
alternates will have a voice but not a vote in all Planning and Zoning Board
deliberations, unless one or more regular members are absent, in which case the
alternates are authorized to vote in accordance with their designation as
alternate number one and alternate number two, in that order.
   (b)   Members and alternates shall be appointed by the Town Commission and
may be removed by the Commission for cause and after a public hearing held on
written charges. Vacancies shall be filled by the Town Commission for the
unexpired term of the members affected.
   (c)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall appoint the Chairperson of the
Board on a yearly basis.
   (d)   Three members of the Planning and Zoning Board shall constitute a
quorum.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. IX) (Ord., passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-01, passed 1-20-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-136. PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of
its affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of the Land Development Code.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as a majority of Board members may determine. The Chairperson, or in his
absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating other official actions, all of
which shall be a public record and be immediately filed in the office of the
Town Clerk for the Board. The Town Clerk or said individuals designee shall act
as Secretary to the Board.
(Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-137. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall have the powers and duties set
forth herein.
   (b)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall study the resources, possibilities
and needs of the Town, land development regulations, and the comprehensive
plan, and prepare plans and maps for the systematic future development and
betterment of the Town and from time to time make such recommended changes as
are deemed advisable.
   (c)   Any building construction that differs from single-family inclusive of
accessory buildings, is by definition to be identified as a commercial
structure. A commercial structure is further differentiated from residential
construction by stricter building codes (reference Standard Building Code) and
a higher state rated contractors' licensing. (See § 489.105, Fla. Stat.)
   (d)   A member of the Planning and Zoning Board selected by the Planning and
Zoning Board may attend all meetings of the Board of Adjustment for the purpose
of providing input to the Board of Adjustment with regard to applicable
provisions of the Land Development Code. However, if said Planning and Zoning
Board member fails to attend a meeting of the Board of Adjustment any action
taken by the Board of Adjustment in the absence of said Planning and Zoning
Board member shall not be invalid or void by reason of said absence. Said
member of the Planning and Zoning Board will have no vote and will not be
considered to be a member of the Board of Adjustment, ex officio or otherwise.
   (e)   The Planning and Zoning Board at public hearings is expected to advise
the Town Commission on all matters relating to proposed changes in this Land
Development Code.
   (f)   The Planning and Zoning Board will at all times also operate as the
Town’s land development regulation commission and the Town’s Local Planning
Agency, all in accordance with and as provided for by the Community Planning
Act (§§ 163.3161 et seq., Fla. Stat.) and §
2A-17 of this code.
   (g)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review site plans for all multi-
family residential and commercial construction as provided by §
7A-51 to determine compliance with the Land Development Code, compliance with
all height and setback regulations and §
7A-59 of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances, and to prepare written
recommendations for the Town Commission. If the Town Commission has directed
from time to time that the Planning and Zoning Board undertake review of site
plans for development within the 1-RS, 2-RS, and 3-RS zoning districts as
provided by §
7A-51.1, the Planning and Zoning Board will review site plans for single-family
residential and other development as provided by §
7A-51.1 to determine compliance with the Land Development Code and to prepare
written recommendations for the Town Commission.
   (h)   No permit for building, remodeling, or building expansion shall be
issued on any multi- family residential or commercial structure until a site
plan required to be reviewed pursuant to §
7A-51 is reviewed and approved by the Zoning Official for compliance with all
provisions of the Town of Melbourne Beach Code of Ordinances.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. IX) (Ord., passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 87-01, passed 1-20-87; Am. Ord. 2004-01, adopted 9-15-04;
Am. Ord. 2006-06, passed 5-17-06; Am. Ord. 2010-01, adopted 3-17-10; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-138. – 7A-149. RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 7A-150. ESTABLISHMENT; TERMS AND MEMBERSHIPS.
   (a)   There is hereby established a Board to be called the Board of
Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment is a five-member body plus two alternates
established by the Town Commission. Such Board shall be composed of, when
reasonably possible, one architect, one engineer, one member at large from the
building industry, one building contractor and one member at large from the
public. The term of office of the first members of the Board shall be one year
for one member, two years for two members, three years for two members, and
three years for each alternate with appointment thereafter to be for a term of
three years for each member.The alternates will have a voice but not a vote in
all Board of Adjustment deliberations, unless one or more regular members are
absent, in which case the alternates are authorized to vote in accordance with
their designation as alternate number one and alternate number two, in that
order.
   (b)   Members and alternates shall be appointed by the Town Commission and
may be removed by the Commission for cause and after a public hearing held on
written charges. Vacancies shall be filled by the Town Commission for the
unexpired term of the members affected.
   (c)   The Board of Adjustment shall appoint the Chairperson of the Board on
a yearly basis.
   (d)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In varying the
application of any provisions of this code or in modifying an order of the
Building Official, affirmative votes of the majority present, but not less then
three affirmative votes, shall be required. If the Planning and Zoning Board
member designated to attend Board of Adjustment meetings pursuant to §
7A-137 shall fail to attend a meeting of the Board of Adjustment, any action
taken by the Board of Adjustment in the absence of said Planning and Zoning
Board member shall not be invalid or void by reason of said absence.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. IX) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed 11-
12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-151. PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD.
   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of its
affairs, and in keeping with the provisions of the Land Development Code.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as a majority of Board members may determine. The Chairperson, or in his
absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating other official actions, all of
which shall be a public record and be immediately filed in the office of the
Town Clerk for the Board. The Town Clerk or said individuals designee shall act
as Secretary to the Board.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. IX § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-152. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power necessary to effectuate,
within the constraint of federal, state and local law, all of the duties set
forth in this section.
   (b)   Administrative Review. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building Official
or the Zoning Official in the interpretation or enforcement of this Land
Development Code.
      (1)   Appeal to Board of Adjustment. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment
may be taken by any person aggrieved by any decision of the Building Official
or the Zoning Official in the interpretation or enforcement of any portion of
this Land Development Code. Appeals to the Board of Adjustment, relating to any
decision of the Building Official or the Zoning Official in the interpretation
or enforcement of any portion of the Land Development Code, may also be taken
by the Town Manager or any Town Commissioner. As utilized in this sub-section,
a "person aggrieved" shall be:
         a.   An individual requesting the interpretation;
         b.   Any person having a legally recognizable interest in the
interpretative opinion, which interest is directly and adversely affected by
the interpretation, and which is different than the interest of the community
as a whole; or
         c.   Any person having a definite interest exceeding the general
interest in the community good shared in common with all citizens.
Factors to be considered in determining the sufficiency of a person's interest
include, but shall not be limited to: (i) proximity of the person's property to
the property subject to the interpretative opinion; (ii) character of the
neighborhood including the existence of common restrictive covenants and set-
back requirements that directly relate to the interpretative opinion; and (iii)
the fact that the person is among those entitled to receive notice of a
rezoning, special exception, comprehensive plan amendment, site plan approval,
or variance called for by the interpretative opinion.
      (2)   Initiation of appeal. Such appeal shall be taken within a
reasonable time not to exceed 30 days following the date of rendition of the
interpretation by filing with the Building Official and with the Secretary to
the Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
      (3)   Notice. The Building Official, in cases of an appeal from the
determination or interpretation of the Building Official, and the Zoning
Official, in cases of an appeal from the determination or interpretation of the
Zoning Official, shall within 15 days thereafter transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. The Secretary to the Board of Adjustment, after receipt of the
record, shall fix a time for hearing of the appeal giving public notice thereof
at least 15 days in advance of the public hearing as well as due notice to the
parties in interest. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney at
the hearing.
      (4)   Stay of proceeding. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from unless the Building Official or Zoning Official, as
the person from whose determination or interpretation an appeal is being taken,
certifies to the Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal is filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the Building or
Zoning Official's opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such
cases proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Board of Adjustment or a court of record on application.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 99-02, passed 2-17-99; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04)
   (c)   Special Exceptions.
      (1)   Limitations. The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to
hear and decide only such special exceptions as it is specifically authorized
to pass on by the terms of this Land Development Code; to decide such questions
as are involved in determining whether special exceptions should be granted;
and to grant special exceptions with such conditions and safeguards as are
appropriate under this chapter or other applicable ordinances; or to deny
special exceptions when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of the Land
Development Code. A special exception shall not be granted by the Board unless
and until:
         a.   A written application for a special exception is submitted by the
applicant indicating the section of this chapter under which the special
exception is sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
         b.   Notice shall be given by the Town at least 15 days in advance of
the public hearing. The owner of the property for which a special exception is
sought or his agent shall be notified by U.S. first class mail with return
receipt requested. Notice of such hearing shall be posted on the property for
which a special exception is sought, at the Town Hall, and shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation within the Town.
         c.   A courtesy notice shall be mailed by the Town to the property
owners of record within a radius of 500 feet. The Town's failure to mail or the
fact that the intended recipient shall not receive a courtesy notice shall in
no way invalidate any action taken by the Town or its boards and commissions.
         d.   Any party may appear in person or be otherwise represented at the
public hearing. The Board shall make such findings and determinations as it is
empowered under the various sections of this chapter so to do.
      (2)   Submittal requirements.
         a.   Development plans that include complete architectural drawings of
all faces of a building and an overhead view shall be submitted with all
special exception applications that include a new building(s), facade
renovations, or substantial improvements to an existing building. The drawings
shall be submitted in color and at the minimum shall include:
            1.   Architectural style.
            2.   Exterior construction material specifications.
            3.   Color charts.
            4.   A site plan (§
7A-51).
            5.   Structure dimensions and setbacks from all property lines.
            6.   Refuse service area location.
            7.   Mechanical outdoor equipment location.
            8.   Master outdoor lighting plan.
            9.   Screening devices.
            10.   Master signage plan.
            11.   Master landscaping plan.
            12.   Wall or fence details.
            13.   Other information determined necessary by the Town to ensure
consistency with the purpose and intent and the provisions of the Land
Development Code.
            14.   Specific requirements found in §
7A-152(c)(3), and §
7A-52 relating to walls and fences, and
Chapter 9A relating to landscaping and trees, all in the Land Development Code.
         b.   Applications that propose a change of use in an existing building
to a special exception use where architectural changes are not required or
planned shall not be subject to architectural requirements with the exception
of paint color. The building and site shall be retrofitted to meet other
special exception criteria to the extent determined by the Board of Adjustment.
Landscaping of any existing open space areas and compliance with the signage
and lighting requirements shall be required.
         c.   The applicant shall also submit as a part of the application a
narrative that explains how the use and the development will be compatible with
surrounding uses in its function, its hours of operation, the type and amount
of traffic to be generated, building size and setbacks, its relationship to
land values and other factors that may be used to measure compatibility.
      (3)   Review criteria. Before any special exception shall be issued the
Board of Adjustment shall make written findings certifying compliance with the
specific rules governing individual special exceptions, and that the grant of
the special exception as depicted on the development plans meets or exceeds the
following standards:
         a.   Architectural style. Building design and construction, including
but not limited to, exterior building materials specifications, shall conform
to the Bungalow, Frame Vernacular, 1800's Tidewater Style, Key West or Gothic
Revival architecture. Other historical architectural styles may be permitted
upon application to the Board of Adjustment, if the applicant demonstrates and
the Board of Adjustment determines that the utilization of such style
contributes positively to the historic character of the Town and is consistent
with the intent of the Land Development Code. Examples of architectural style
shall be available in the office of the Building Official.
         b.   Compatibility. The special exception, as depicted on the
development plans, is compatible with adjacent and nearby uses, developments,
structures, and neighborhoods and will not alter the character of the community
and neighborhood or be contrary to emerging development trends in the community
and the neighborhood.
         c.   Building orientation. Buildings shall be oriented so as to
enhance the appearance of the streetscape.
            1.   All facades of a building that face a road shall have an
entrance to the building that is parallel to the roadway. The building shall
not be limited to entrances facing roadways. Alternative entrances facing
parking lots, driveways, or open space are permitted. The entrance to the
building shall face parallel to the public right-of-way.
            2.   Each facade that is visible from a public right-of-way shall
be designed with full architectural treatment including door and window
placements, facade architectural treatments and detail, roof design and
building materials applications necessary to give the appearance that each
visible facade is a primary facade.
            3.   The architectural treatment requirements shall also be applied
to any building facade that is situated where it is clearly visible from a
public area of an adjoining site, unless the Board of Adjustment allows
landscape buffering to serve as an alternative to the architectural treatment.
            4.   Building orientation shall ensure that service areas are
placed out of view from public rights-of-way, parking areas, and adjacent
properties. Where, because of site constraints service areas cannot be so
located, such areas shall be screened from view by vegetative or structural
means. Any structural screening shall be architecturally compatible with the
principal building in terms of style, color, construction materials and finish.
            5.   Mass, bulk and scale of all structures shall be compatible
with other structures and uses both in the same zoning district and in the
neighborhood.
         d.   Exterior materials and colors. Exterior building materials and
colors contribute significantly to the visual impact of a building on a
community which in turn, reflects upon the visual character and quality of a
community. In order to protect an image of high quality Town aesthetics,
exterior building materials and colors shall conform to the following
requirements:
            1.   All buildings shall be faced with materials that exhibit a
durable, high quality appearance.
            2.   Acceptable exterior facing materials shall include those that
are consistent with the architectural style of the building.
            3.   Exterior colors shall be historically consistent colors used
along Ocean Avenue. These colors are dominated by pastels and shades of white.
Accent colors and colors consistent with the proposed architectural style may
be approved if determined to be compatible with the character of surrounding
and nearby structures.
            4.   Building materials and colors shall be consistent around the
entire building. The application may include proposed exceptions to this
requirement. The Board of Adjustment may grant exceptions, if it is
demonstrated that the proposal remains compatible with the Ocean Avenue
corridor and adjacent residential uses.
            5.   Once a final development plan has been approved a change in
color(s) shall be made only after application to, and approval by, the Board of
Adjustment.
         e.   Roof design. Roofs are an integral part of building design, and
shall be designed and constructed to compliment the character of the building.
Roof design and construction shall conform to the following requirements:
            1.   Roofs shall be constructed of durable high quality material in
order to enhance the appearance and attractiveness of the Town. Roofing
materials shall be similar in appearance with materials that are historically
consistent with the architectural style of the building.
            2.   The design of roof structures shall be consistent with the
architectural style of the building and shall extend to all sides of the
building.
            3.   Roofs shall be designed to be of a height, bulk, and mass so
as to appear structural even when the design is non-structural.
         f.   Refuse service areas.
            1.   Refuse service areas shall be located in a manner that
minimizes impacts to adjacent residential areas.
            2.   Refuse service areas shall be screened from adjacent
properties and rights- of-way by an enclosure that is constructed of durable
building materials such as concrete, stone, or brick. The enclosure shall be
faced with the same style as the facade of the primary structure on the site.
The gate to the enclosure shall have a similar appearance as the facade of the
building. The enclosure shall be the same color as the primary structure.
            3.   Enclosures shall be large enough and located in a manner that
service vehicles can access the dumpster while it is in the enclosure.
         g.   Mechanical equipment operation and location.
            1.   Mechanical equipment shall be located in a manner that
minimizes impacts to adjacent residential properties.
            2.   Mechanical equipment, including equipment located on roofs
shall be screened from view of adjacent residential properties and rights-of-
way. Screening shall be of a material that is consistent with the architecture
of the building.
         h.   Lighting.
            1.   Outdoor lighting shall be arranged so that the light source is
shielded from adjacent residential properties and rights-of-way. Light fixtures
shall be a type that directs the light downward.
            2.   Outdoor lighting shall be arranged so that no portions of
adjacent residential properties are covered by the light shadow. There shall be
no glare of spillover effect of lighting from the property on which a special
exception is approved to adjacent properties, and all lighting shall comply
with §§ 46-91 through 46-97, Brevard County Code, relating to safeguarding
nesting female and hatchling marine turtles from sources of artificial light.
         i.   Landscaping and trees. Landscaping and trees are subject to
specific requirements for special exceptions found in
Chapter 9A of this Land Development Code.
         j.   Signs. Signs are subject to specific requirements for special
exceptions found in §
7A-52 of this Land Development Code.
         k.   Walls and fences. Walls and fences are subject to specific
requirements for special exceptions found in §
7A-53 of this Land Development Code.
         l.   Comprehensive plan. No special exception shall be granted unless
it is first determined by the Board of Adjustment that the special exception
and development plans are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. A special
exception shall not be presumed to be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan
merely because it is listed in the Land Development Code as a special exception
in a given zoning district.
      (4)   Prohibited activities. Special exception uses that include the
following activities shall not be approved:
         a.   Utilizes shared parking from a zoning district that allows a
higher intensity use.
         b.   Combines the property with property in a zoning district that
allows a higher intensity of use where it will result in a larger structure on
the property proposed for the special exception than otherwise would be
permitted.
         c.   Has a drive-in, drive-up, drive through, or any other similar
feature that provides for receipt of goods, services, food, or information from
a motor vehicle.
      (5)   Site plans. No special exception shall be effective unless it
conforms to a site plan in compliance with the requirements of §
7A-51, which site plan is approved by the Town Commission. All development
shall comply with the site plans considered by the Board of Adjustment, unless
the site plan is otherwise modified and approved by the Planning and Zoning
Board and/or the Town Commission.
      (6)   Conditions and safeguards. In granting any special exception, the
Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in
conformity with this Land Development Code. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the special exception is
granted, shall be deemed to be a violation of this Land Development Code and
punishable as provided by this code. The Board shall prescribe a time limit
within which the action for which the special exception is required shall be
begun or completed, or both. Failure to begin or complete, or both, such action
within the time limit set shall void the special exception.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7, passed
11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2008-08, adopted 9-3-08)
   (d)   Variances to the provisions of
Chapter 7A of the Land Development Code.
      (1)   When granted. A variance from the terms of
Chapter 7A may be granted when it will not be contrary to the public interest
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
these regulations would result in unnecessary and undue hardship; provided
specifically, however, that financial or self-imposed reasons shall not be
considered as grounds for establishing undue hardship sufficient to qualify an
applicant for a variance.
      (2)   A variance is authorized only for area, size of structure, size of
yards, and open spaces. Establishment or expansion of a use otherwise
prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted
because of the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or uses in an
adjoining zoning district. Variances to maximum building heights are not
authorized.
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to permit a use not generally or by special exception permitted in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of the Land Development Code.
      (4)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings
in the same district, and no permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings
in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (5)   Conditions governing applications. A variance shall not be
considered by the Board of Adjustment unless and until a written application
for a variance is submitted demonstrating:
         a.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, buildings or structures in the same district;
         b.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this Land
Development Code would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by
other properties in the same district under the terms of this Land Development
Code; and
         c.   That the special conditions and circumstances referred to in
division (5)a. above, do not result from the actions of the applicant.
         d.   If a variance is granted with regard to a condition relating to a
structure, the variance shall terminate when the structure, or all of that
portion of the structure specifically affected by the variance, is razed or
otherwise removed from the affected property, unless the Board of Adjustment
otherwise specifies in its final order. With regard to any variance granted
before January 1, 2015, no term of said variance shall be construed to be
limited, unless the Board of Adjustment's order specifically so provides.
      (6)   Procedures:
         a.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given as specified for
special exceptions.
         b.   The applicant shall be required to supply to the Town Clerk a
certified list from the Brevard County Property Appraiser of all property
owners within a radius of 500 feet from the subject property. A courtesy notice
shall be mailed U.S. first mail class with return receipt requested by the Town
Clerk to all property owners within that area. The Town's failure to mail or
the fact that the intended recipient shall not receive a courtesy notice shall
in no way invalidate any action taken by the Town or its boards and
commissions.
         c.   Any party may appear in person, or be otherwise represented at
the public hearing.
         d.   The Board of Adjustment shall make findings as to whether the
requirements of division (5) above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
         e.   The Board of Adjustment shall determine whether the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance and whether the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building or structure.
         f.   The Board of Adjustment shall further determine whether the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general cure and intent of
this Land Development Code, will not be injurious to the neighborhood or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
         g.   In no case shall the Board of Adjustment grant a variance which
will result in a change of land use as set forth in the Comprehensive Plan that
would not be permitted in the applicable land use classification.
         h.   When a portion of a nonconforming structure is to be demolished
or razed as a part of a variance application, the percent of the structure to
be demolished or razed shall be stated in the variance application.
      (7)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards which will be in conformity with this
Land Development Code. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this Land Development Code and punishable as provided by this Land
Development Code. Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to permit a use not generally or by special exception permitted in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this Land Development Code in that district.
   (e)   Variances to the Provisions of Article IX,
Chapter 4A may be granted as provided in §§
4A-198 through
4A-205.
   (f)   Variances to the Provisions of coastal setback line established by
Chapter 5A of this Land Development Code; provided that the standards for
granting a variance thereunder which are set forth in this §
7A-152 shall not apply.
   (g)   Building Code; Plumbing Code; Mechanical Code; and Gas Code. Variances
from provisions of, or appeals from decisions of the Building Official related
to, the standard building and construction codes adopted in §§
4A-20,
4A-21,
4A-65,
4A-81, and
4A-83, of this code, may be granted by the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
specific procedures and based on the standards set forth in the aforementioned
standard building and construction related codes.
   (h)   Unsafe Building Abatement Code. Appeals from decisions of the Building
Official related to the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code adopted in §
4A-63 of this code, may be granted by the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
specific procedures and based on the standards set forth in the aforementioned
code.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 3) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 87-02,
passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 96-01, passed 4-17-96; Am. Ord. 96-03, passed 4-17-96;
Am. Ord. 2006-08, adopted 8-30-06; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-153. HEARINGS.
   All hearings for special exceptions or variances before the Board of
Adjustment shall be initiated by either:
   (1)   The owner or owners of at least 75% of the property described in the
application;
   (2)   The tenant or tenants, with the owner's sworn-to consent;
   (3)   Duly authorized agents evidenced by a written power of attorney;
   (4)   Town Commission;
   (5)   Planning and Zoning Board; or
   (6)   Any department or agency of the Town.
('75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 4) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 87-02,
passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-154. DECISIONS OF BOARD.
   (a)   In exercising any of the powers listed in this article, the Board of
Adjustment may, so long as the action is in conformity with the terms of this
article, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as should be made and to that end shall
have all the powers of the Building or Zoning Official from whom the appeal was
taken.
   (b)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Building Official or Zoning Official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass, or to effect any variation in the
application of the Land Development Code.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 87-02,
passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17)
§ 7A-155. REHEARINGS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall not rehear a special exception, appeal from a
determination of the Building Official or Zoning Official, or variance once
decided unless an error in substantive or procedural law is found following the
decision, or unless the Board makes a finding based on presentation by the
applicant that new evidence, not discoverable by the applicant prior to the
initial hearing, is found. A different or more effective presentation or
clarification of the same evidence or matters considered at the initial hearing
shall not be grounds for a rehearing before the Board of Adjustment. All
proceedings to rehear a variance, special exception, appeal from a
determination of the Building Official or Zoning Official, including entering a
granting or denial of a rehearing, must be completed, if at all, within 30 days
from the date of rendition of the Board’s order being reheard.
(Ord. 87-02, passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04; Am. Ord. 2017-
05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-156. INFORMING BOARD OF POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Attorney shall annually review and advise the members of the Board
of Adjustment as to the powers and duties of the Board as defined in §§
7A-150 through
7A-156 and applicable state statutes.
('75 Code, Appendix A, Art. X, § 6) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 87-02,
passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-157. REPEALED.
§§ 7A-158. – 7A-169. RESERVED.
ARTICLE X. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 7A-170. DESIGNATING THE ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (a)   The Building Official, under the direction of the Town Manager, shall
administer the provisions of
chapters 3A (concurrency),
4A (building, flood protection, and coastal construction),
5A (coastal setback regulation),
9A (landscaping and trees), and
11A (environmentally sensitive lands) of this Land Development Code.
   (b)   The Zoning Official, under the direction of the Town Manager, shall
administer the provisions of
chapters 1A (general administration),
2A (comprehensive planning),
6A (subdivisions), and
7A (zoning), of this Land Development Code.
   (c)   The Code Inspector shall initiate enforcement procedures in accordance
with §§ 31-15 through 31-22 when violations of this Land Development Code
exist.
(Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-171. DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT, TOWN
COMMISSION AND COURTS ON MATTERS OF APPEAL.
   (a)   (1)   It is the intent of this Land Development Code that all
questions of interpretation, administration, and enforcement, of
chapters 3A (concurrency),
4A (building, flood protection, and coastal construction),
5A (coastal setback regulation),
9A (landscaping and trees), and
11A (environmentally sensitive lands) of this Land Development Code, shall be
first presented to the Building Official, and that such questions shall be
presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the
Building Official. Recourse from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall
be to the courts as provided by law.
      (2)   It is the intent of this Land Development Code that all questions
of interpretation, administration, and enforcement, of
chapters 1A (general administration),
2A (comprehensive planning),
6A (subdivision regulation), and
7A (zoning), of this Land Development Code, shall be first presented to the
Zoning Official, and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of
Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Official. Recourse
from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the courts as
provided by law. In interpreting whether a particular use is allowed either as
a principal, conditional, or accessory use, the Zoning Official shall be guided
first by the specific uses delineated in particular zoning districts, and if no
specific use is delineated, the Zoning Official shall be guided by the
delineated uses to determine whether uses similar thereto are permitted and by
examination of the intent of the zoning district.
   (b)   In interpreting provisions of this Land Development Code, the Zoning
Official and the Building Official, as appropriate, shall be guided first by
the plain meaning of the words and terms in this Land Development Code and
second by the intent expressed herein. The Zoning Official and the Building
Official shall make interpretations by interpreting the code as a whole and not
by taking specific words or clauses in isolation.
   (c)   It is further the intent of this Land Development Code that the duties
of Town Commission in connection with this Land Development Code shall not
include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement that
may arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be as stated in this
section and this Land Development Code with the Board of Adjustment deciding
questions of interpretation and enforcement.
(Am. Ord. 99-02, passed 2-17-99; Am. Ord. 2004-02, adopted 7-21-04; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-172. COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this Land Development Code occurs or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a complaint. Such complaint shall state
fully the causes and basis thereof and shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XVI, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 7A-173. PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, neglects, or refuses
to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Land Development Code shall be fined in accordance with the Code, or shall be
fined as provided by the laws of the state.
(`75 Code, Appendix A, Art. XVII, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-26-72; Am. Ord. 85-7,
passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 7A-174.–7A-199. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 8A: PRESERVATION OF VESTED RIGHTS; TAKINGS; DUE PROCESS
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 9A: LANDSCAPING AND TREES
Section
Article I. Landscaping
   
9A-1   Definition
   
9A-2   Intent
   
9A-3   Applicability
   
9A-4   Permit required for cutting down tree
   
9A-5   Application for permit; review of application
   
9A-6   On-site inspection
   
9A-7   Minimum tree plantings
   
9A-8   Tree protection
   
9A-9   Trees on public lands
   
9A-10   Exceptions
   
9A-11   Reserved
   
9A-12   Penalty
   
9A-13 – 9A-99   Reserved
ARTICLE I. LANDSCAPING
§ 9A-1. DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD AREA. The front, side and rear yard areas as established and required
by
Chapter 7A.
(`75 Code, § 22-17) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 9A-2. INTENT.
   The intent of this article is to preserve trees whenever and wherever they
exist and to provide trees wherever they are sparse or do not exist, thus
enhancing the health, welfare and beautification of the Town. The intent of the
article also includes the encouragement of “Florida Friendly Landscaping” as
defined by § 375.185(b), Fl. Stat. and “Florida Native Landscaping” as defined
by the University of Florida’s Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences
(IFAS).
(`75 Code, § 22-16) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 9A-3. APPLICABILITY.
   The terms and provisions of this article shall apply to all real property in
all zoning districts.
(`75 Code, § 22-18) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 87-13, passed 9-22-87;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 9A-4. PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CUTTING DOWN TREE.
   No person, organization, society, association or corporation, or any agent
or representative thereof, directly or indirectly, shall cut down, destroy,
remove, move or effectively destroy through damaging any tree situated on
property in any zoning district without first obtaining a permit as herein
provided. Tree removal on any property in any zoning district shall be in
accordance with the standards mandated in the most recent edition of the Best
Management Practices - Tree Risk Assessment published by the International
Society of Arboriculture or a certification from an arborist certified by the
International Society of Arboriculture or a Florida licensed landscape
architect as to substantial compliance with such standards. Any tree which
poses an unacceptable risk may qualify for removal without a permit pursuant to
Fla. Stat. § 163.045 or as such section may be amended
(`75 Code, § 22-19(a)) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17; Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23)
§ 9A-5. APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (a)   Application. Permits for removal, relocation, or replacement of trees
covered herein, shall be obtained by making application for a permit to the
Building Official. The application shall be accompanied by a written statement
indicating the reason for removal, relocation, or replacement of trees and two
copies of a legible site plan drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 20
feet, indicating the following:
      (1)   Location of all existing or proposed structures, improvements, and
sites used, properly dimensioned and referenced to property lines, setback, and
yard requirements;
      (2)   Location of existing or proposed utility services, when known;
      (3)   The location of all trees on the site designating the trees to be
retained, removed, relocated, or replaced. Groups of trees in close proximity
may be designated as clumps of trees with the predominant type and estimated
number and average diameter noted. Only those trees to be removed, relocated,
or replaced must be named (common or botanical name) on the site plan;
      (4)   The tree information required above shall be summarized in legend
form on the plan and shall include the reason for the proposed removal,
relocation, or replacement; and
      (5)   An application involving developed properties may be based on
drawings showing only that portion of the site directly involved, and adjacent
structures and landscaping or natural growth incidental thereto.
   (b)   Application review. Upon receipt of a proper application, the Building
Official shall review the application, which will include a field check of the
site and referral of the application to others concerned as necessary, to
determine any adverse effect upon the general public welfare, adjacent
properties, or Town services and facilities.
(`75 Code, § 22-19(b), (c)) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05,
adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23) Penalty, see §
9A-12
§ 9A-6. ON-SITE INSPECTION.
   (a)   On-site inspection. Prior to the issuance of a permit for tree removal
or relocation, the Building
Official or his agent shall conduct an on-site inspection to determine whether
or not such a removal or relocation conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (b)   Issuance.
      (1)   Removal. No permit shall be issued for tree removal unless one of
the following conditions exists:
         a.   The tree is located in a buildable area or yard where a structure
or improvements may be placed where inability to remove the tree would
unreasonably restrict the permitted use of the property and the tree removal
has been authorized by the Town as part of a site plan review;
         b.   The tree cannot be relocated on or off the site because of age,
type, or size of tree;
         c.   The tree is diseased, dead, injured, in danger of falling, too
close to existing or proposed structures, interferes with utility service,
creates unsafe vision clearance, or conflicts with other ordinances or
regulations; or
         d.   It is in the welfare of the general public that the tree be
removed for a reason other than set forth above.
      (2)   Relocation or replacement. As a condition to the granting of a
permit, the applicant may be required, where practical, to relocate the tree
being removed or be required to replace the tree being removed with a tree
somewhere within the site of the type that will attain an overall height of at
least twelve feet (12') and have a trunk caliper of at two inches (2") at
planting, measured four and one-half feet (4.5') above grade. The green areas
left after all building and parking lot requirements have been met shall
contain a tree density equal to or greater than that existing on the overall
site before the beginning of construction.
(`75 Code, § 22-19(d)) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted
12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23) Penalty, see §
9A-12
§ 9A-7. MINIMUM TREE PLANTINGS.
   (a)   Trees in residential zoning districts. Trees planted must be of a
variety which is compatible with the existing soil and drainage-conditions and
must be provided with adequate water and food materials to encourage growth.
Trees shall be planted in locations so as not to cause danger to nor
interference with existing structures at the time of maturity.
   (b)   Buffer and tree planting requirements for all non-residential and
multiple family residential uses.
      (1)   A landscape buffer with a minimum of ten feet in width shall be
provided between any residentially zoned property and a property utilized for a
non-residential or multiple family residential use. Responsibility for
providing a landscape buffer shall be upon the nonresidential or multifamily
use. The landscape buffer shall include a minimum of one canopy tree for every
40 linear feet, or fraction thereof. In addition one ornamental tree or palm
shall be planted for each 50 linear feet, or fraction thereof.
      (2)   A landscape buffer with a minimum of ten feet in width shall be
provided along all road frontage of the site. The landscape buffer shall
include a minimum of one canopy tree for every 25 feet of frontage, or fraction
thereof.
      (3)   A continuous hedge shall be planted in all perimeter landscape
buffer areas.
      (4)   Parking areas shall be designed so that there is a minimum of 200
square feet of open space, not including perimeter landscape buffer areas, at
the end of each row of parking. In addition a minimum of 200 square feet of
open space shall be provided in the interior of the parking lot for each ten
parking spaces, or fraction thereof. These open spaces shall be distributed
throughout the parking lot in a manner that no more than ten parking spaces in
a row shall be allowed without an intervening landscaped area.
      (5)   Minimum specifications for trees and hedge material shall be as
follows:
         a.   Canopy trees at the time of planting shall have a trunk diameter
of two inches measured four and one-half feet above grade. The trees shall be a
minimum of eight feet in height and have a minimum spread of five feet. The
trees are not required to be spaced evenly along property lines.
         b.   Ornamental trees at the time of planting shall have a trunk
diameter of one and one-half inches measured four and one-half feet above
grade. The trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height and have a minimum
spread of four feet.
         c.   Palms at the time of planting shall have a minimum clear trunk of
eight feet.
         d.   Hedge material at the time of planting shall be a minimum of 18
inches in height when planted. Individual plants shall be planted a maximum of
24 inches on center.
      (6)   All plant material shall be Florida Number 1 in quality and shall
be planted according to sound landscape installation standards.
      (7)   All landscaping shall be maintained to present a neat and orderly
appearance. Dead, deteriorating or missing landscape material shall be replaced
with substantially equivalent landscaping as permitted by the Land Development
Code. Replacement of landscaping material shall occur within 60 days, unless
said time is extended by the Town Manager for good cause shown.
      (8)   Exceptions shall be considered on an individual basis when
obstacles such as overhead power lines or other conditions inhibit the ability
to comply.
      (9)   Canopy trees shall be those that develop a crown spread of 25 feet
or greater at maturity. Trees with less than 25 feet of crown spread at
maturity shall be considered ornamental trees.
      (10)    Clusters of three palms shall be an acceptable substitute for up
to 50% of the required canopy trees and 50% of the required ornamental trees.
      (11)   Landscape material should be drought tolerant to the extent
practical and feasible. A water source shall be available to ensure the plant
material can be watered while it is being established and during drought
occurrence. Automatic irrigation systems may be utilized.
      (12)   Currently developed sites that do not meet the landscape
requirements will not be considered non-conforming. Landscaping consistent with
the regulations shall be installed at these sites, to the extent practical, as
redevelopment occurs. Unless complete reconstruction or rehabilitation that
results in closure of a building or buildings for a period of over six months
occurs, full compliance with this section shall not be required.
   (c)   Minimum replacement standards for new construction. Any trees that are
removed for new construction shall be replaced by the same or similar species.
Specifically for mature oak trees, replacement of one (1) similar species for
each tree removed shall be required which at a minimum will attain an overall
height of at least twelve feet (12') and have a trunk caliper of at least two
inches (2") at planting, measured four and one-half feet (4.5') above grade.
   (d)   Maintenance of trees and landscaping. If the removal of any tree or
landscaping from any lot causes the number of remaining trees or vegetative
species to fall below the minimum standards required by this section or as
reflected on any approved site plan or landscaping plan for said lot,
replacement trees or vegetative species meeting the requirements of this
section or any approved site plan or landscaping plan shall be re- planted on
the lot within thirty (30) days after removal.
(`75 Code, § 22-20) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 87-13, passed 9-22-87;
Am. Ord. 2008-08, adopted 9-3-08; Am. Ord. 2009-03, adopted 4-15-09; Am. Ord.
2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23) Penalty, see §
9A-12
§ 9A-8. TREE PROTECTION.
   (a)   Protection of trees during land-clearing.
      (1)   Trees that are retained during land-clearing can be applied toward
total tree requirements for the property. Prior to land-clearing, on-site
protection must be initiated by constructing suitable protective barricades
around trees to prevent mechanical damage. Barriers should be constructed
around individual trees or groups of trees that are susceptible to mechanical
damage. Prior to any land-clearing activity, a visual inspection of the site
will be made by the Building Official before a land-clearing permit is issued.
The land-clearing permit must be posted on-site. Only land-clearing is
permitted within the drip line of the tree to be protected.
      (2)   On-site protection of trees may be barriers consisting of two-by
four-inch lumber or flag rope and stakes visible to workers and equipment
operators, but far enough from the tree to prevent sail compaction and large
enough to include the area within the drip line of the tree (drip line refers
to the outer edges of tree limbs and branches).
      (3)   Should a deep filling around a tree be necessary, a dry well,
retaining wall or terracing may be required. Procedures for these are available
in the site planning and tree protection regulations available at the County
Extension Office.
   (b)   Attachments to tree. No attachments or wires other than those of a
protective nature shall be attached to any tree.
   (c)   Tree survival. Trees must survive on-site in a viable condition. Trees
failing to meet this survival requirement must be replaced within 45 days after
a written notification is received by the property owner from the town.
   (d)   Landscaping prohibition. Plants included on the current Florida
Noxious Weed list – Rule 5B-57.007 in Florida Administrative Code.
(`75 Code, § 22-21) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 87-13, passed 9-22-87;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 9A-9. TREES ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   No tree shall be removed from any public park or public right-of-way except
under the provisions of this article.
(`75 Code, § 22-23) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-
20-17)
§ 9A-10. EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   In the event that any tree shall be determined to pose an unacceptable
risk as provided for in §
9A-4 or to be in a hazardous or dangerous condition so as to endanger the
public health, welfare or safety and requires immediate removal without delay
such tree may be removed without first obtaining a written permit as herein
required.
   (b)   During a period of emergency, such as a hurricane, tropical storm,
flood, or any other act of God, the requirements of this Article may be waived
by the Town Commission.
   (c)   All licensed plant or tree nurseries shall be exempt from the terms
and provisions of this Article only in relation to those trees planted and
growing on the premises of the licensee, which are so planted and growing for
sale or intended sale to the general public in the ordinary course of the
licensee's business.
   (d)   The types of trees included on the current Florida Noxious Weed List
and Florida Exotic Pest Council’s List of Invasive Plant Species shall be
exempt from the terms and provisions of this article and shall not be used to
meet any replacement or planting requirements.
(`75 Code, § 22-22) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 87-13, passed 9-22-87;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23)
§ 9A-11. RESERVED.
§ 9A-12. PENALTY.
   The improper removal of each tree shall constitute a separate offense under
this chapter. Violation of this chapter and imposition of the penalty shall be
determined and imposed by the Code Enforcement Special Magistrate or by a court
of proper jurisdiction.
   Removal of any mature oak or similar trees without first obtaining a permit
from the Town as required in §
9A-4 shall constitute prima facie evidence of a violation which is irreparable
or irreversible in nature for the purposes of enhanced fine assessment provided
for in §
11-21(b)(1) or as otherwise amended.
(`75 Code, § 22-25) (Ord. 75-3, passed 5-27-75; Am. Ord. 87-13, passed 9-22-87;
Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17; Am. Ord. 2023-01, adopted 3-15-23)
§§ 9A-13.–9A-99. RESERVED.
CHAPTER 10A: RESERVED
CHAPTER 11A: ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE LANDS
Section
Article I. Wetlands Protection
   
11A-1   Purpose and intent
   
11A-2   General provisions.
   
11A-3   Permitted uses in wetlands
   
11A-4   Prohibited uses in wetlands
   
11A-5 –11A-99 Reserved
ARTICLE I. WETLANDS PROTECTION
§ 11A-1. PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, preserve and enhance the natural
functions of wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas. It is also the
intent of this article to apply the following standards for development in and
adjacent to wetlands.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 11A-2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   During the review of a site plan or any other plan for development,
the Town Manager shall use the Natural Wetlands Inventory maps, the Brevard
County Soil Survey, the Town Comprehensive Plan, aerial photography or other
applicable data in order to determine the potential existence of wetlands on or
adjacent to the site.
   (b)   If a review of the above documents indicates that wetlands may exist
on or adjacent to the site, an inspection will be performed by the Town
Manager.
   (c)   Based on the assessment of the above site visit, the Town Manager may
require the developer to have the site inspected by a representative from the
St. Johns River Water Management District for a determination of jurisdictional
limits of the site. This may require the involvement of the Army Corps of
Engineers, the Department of Environmental Regulation and the Department of
Natural Resources.
   (d)   No building permit will be issued by the Town until either the site
plan has been approved or an exemption letter has been issued by the applicable
environmental agency.
   (e)   All proposed development adjacent to canals, the Indian River and east
of State Road A1A will automatically be reviewed under the above process.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 11A-3. PERMITTED USES IN WETLANDS.
   The following uses shall be permitted in wetlands provided that they are
approved by the St. Johns River Water Management District or the applicable
environmental agency:
      (1)   Open space;
      (2)   Fish and wildlife management;
      (3)   Recreation; or
      (4)   Any other use deemed appropriate by the St. Johns River Water
Management District or the Department of Natural Resources.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§ 11A-4. PROHIBITED USES IN WETLANDS.
   The following uses are specifically prohibited in wetlands:
      (1)   Residential, commercial, industrial and institutional uses, except
as provided for in §
1A-3;
      (2)   Disposal of solid or liquid wastes, and the application or storage
of pesticides and herbicides; and
      (3)   Any activity which impairs the function of the wetlands.
(Am. Ord. 2017-05, adopted 12-20-17)
§§ 11A-5. – 11A-99. RESERVED.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to 1975 Code
References to 1980 Code
References to Ordinances
References to County Ordinances
REFERENCES TO FLORIDA STATUTES
F.S. Cite Code Section
F.S. Cite                      Code Section
1.01(14)                       65-13
Ch. 50                         1A-5
50.011                         15-27
50.031                         15-27
Ch. 97 – 107                 13-5
99.021                         13-6
99.061                         13-6
99.061(7)(a)6.                 13-6
99.093                         13-6
99.097                         13-7
100.151                        13-7
Ch. 106                        13-1.2
106.011                        13-7
106.023                        13-1.2
106.03                         13-7
Ch. 112                        11-54
Ch. 112, Part VII              11-54
112.061                        10-1
112.181                        11-54
112.313                        15-26
Ch. 119                        1-26,
                               47-12
119.011                        47-1
119.021                        1-26
Ch. 121                        12-15 
161.041                        4A-121
161.053                        4A-121,
                               4A-172
161.055                        4A-187
161.54                         4A-210
161.141                        4A-187
                               11-15 -
                               11-17,
Ch. 162                        49-58,
                               73-53,
                               74-4
162.02                         11-15,
                               11-19
162.04                         11-16
162.06                         74-25
162.07                         11-19
162.07(2)                      11-20
162.08                         11-18
162.09(1)                      11-20
                               11-19,
162.12                         49-22,
                               49-41,
                               49-61
Ch. 163                        3A-90
163.045                        9A-4
                               2A-1,
163.3161 et seq.               2A-15,
                               7A-137
163.3174                       2A-16
163.3191                       2A-17
163.3220 et seq.               3A-2,
                               3A-90
163.3220 - 163.3243            7A-103
                               75-1,
Ch. 166                        1A-7,
                               7A-103
166.021                        14-26
166.031                        Charter, Article VI
166.046                        19-4
166.231 - 234                  14-26,
                               14-27
166.231(1)(a)                  14-27
166.231(1)(b)                  14-27,
                               14-32
166.231(7)                     14-28,
                               14-30
166.234                        14-31
170.10                         49-63
Ch. 171                        Charter,
                               9.02
171.0413                       Charter, Article VI
171.051                        Charter, Article VI
Ch. 173                        49-63
175.101                        14-15 –
                               14-17
Ch. 177                        1A-7,
                               6A-1
Ch. 185                        11-54
185.05(1)(a)                   11-54
185.05(6)                      11-54
185.06                         11-54
185.06(1)(b)                   11-54,
                               11-54
185.06(1)(b)4                  11-54
185.06(4)(a)                   11-54
185.06(7)                      11-54
185.08                         14-15 –
                               14-17
185.16                         11-54
185.341                        11-54
185.35(6)                      11-54
193.116                        14-1
196.075                        14-2,
                               14-3
Ch. 197                        27-10
197.3631                       27-7
Ch. 205                        65-3,
                               65-10
205.022                        65-2
205.191                        65-13
205.192                        65-13
205.193                        65-14
205.196                        65-15
215.473                        11-54
218.391                        11-110 –
                               11-112
Ch. 252                        75-1
257.36                         1-26
                               Charter,
Ch. 280                        8.09,
                               15-92
286.011                        11-102,
                               11-122
286.011(2)                     1-26
286.0115                       1A-7
286.0115(1)                    1A-7
287.055                        15-31
287.087                        15-27
290.0055                       65-2,
                               65-10
290.0065                       65-2,
                               65-10
Ch. 316                        30-108,
                               48-5
316.003                        30-41
316.189                        30-21
316.1945                       30-42
316.1955                       30-43
316.1956                       7A-50,
                               30-43
316.1957                       30-43
316.1958                       30-41,
                               30-43
316.1959                       30-43
316.1967                       30-44
316.2025                       11-41
316.2122                       30-104
316.2122(2)                    30-105
316.234(1)                     30-105
316.234(2)                     30-105
316.555                        30-22
316.650                        30-42
318.30                         30-41
318.30 et seq.                 30-43.1
318.325                        30-44
Ch. 320                        30-108,
                               65-14
320.01                         4A-172
320.01(1)(b)                   4A-172
320.01(41)                     30-100
320.02                         30-104,
                               30-104
320.02(5)                      30-104
320.084                        30-41,
                               30-43
320.0842                       30-41,
                               30-43
320.0843                       30-41
320.0845                       30-41
320.0847                       30-104,
                               30-105
320.0848                       30-41,
                               30-43
320.822                        65-14
320.8249                       4A-219
322.33                         65-5 
366.02                         4A-182
373.036                        4A-187
375.185(b)                     9A-2
381.0065                       4A-187
381.031                        49-1
381.0072                       1A-3
381.986                        1A-3
381.986(8)                     1A-3
386.209                        73-61
Ch. 401                        73-38
Ch. 403                        47-4,
                               47-1
403.0891 et seq.               27-3
403.0893                       27-5
403.0893(3)                    27-4
403.413                        47-22
403.702                        27-28
440.10(1)                      4A-145
Ch. 471                        4A-190,
                               4A-191
Ch. 472                        4A-195
Ch. 480                        61-37
489.105                        7A-137
489.113                        65-12
489.117                        65-12
489.119                        65-12
489.127(3)                     4A-143
489.131                        65-12
489.511                        65-12
489.513                        65-12
489.521                        65-12
489.537                        65-12
Ch. 493                        73-38
Ch. 496                        70-20
500.12                         1A-3
501.160                        16-5
509.013                        74-1
509.032(7)(b)                  74-1
509.242(1)(c)                  74-1
Ch. 515                        74-36
553.73(5)                      4A-20,
                               4A-198
553.73(10)(k)                  4A-182
Ch. 556                        19-16
Ch. 561 – 569                60-3
561.01                         53-01
Ch. 601                        13-7
604.50                         4A-182
Ch. 617                        13-7
633.025                        49-61
633.052(1)(a)                  45-8
Ch. 650                        12-1
Ch. 705                        46-21
Ch. 713                        30-48
Ch. 715                        30-48
                               11-54,
775.082                        45-16,
                               73-18,
                               73-19
                               11-54,
775.083                        45-16,
                               73-19,
                               73-18
                               73-51,
775.21                         73-52,
                               73-54,
                               74-25
775.215                        74-25
Ch. 784                        73-33
Ch. 787                        73-33
Ch. 790                        73-33
Ch. 794                        73-33
798.02                         73-18
Ch. 800                        73-33
800.03                         61-3
806.13                         45-14,
                               45-16
Ch. 812                        73-33
823.05                         61-26
823.14                         27-59
Ch. 827                        73-33
Ch. 837                        73-33
Ch. 838                        11-54
Ch. 856                        73-33
Ch. 859                        73-33
Ch. 862                        73-33
Ch. 870                        73-33
Ch. 874                        73-30,
                               73-33
876.05                         13-6
Ch. 877                        73-33
877.03                         73-19
Ch. 893                        73-33
893.12(l)                      61-26
                               73-51,
943.0435                       73-52,
                               73-54,
                               74-25
943.10(6) and (8)              11-54
943.1395                       11-54
944.606                        73-51
                               73-51,
944.607                        73-52,
                               73-54,
                               74-25
985.4815                       74-25
1000.04(1)                     73-51
2000-260, §§ 36, 38, 39 and 514-29
                               
 
REFERENCES TO 1975 CODE
1975 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1975 Code Section          1993 Code Section
1-8                        1-99
2-1(a)                     2A-15
2-1(b)                     2A-16
2-1(c)                     2A-17
2-1(d)                     2A-18
2-1(e)                     2A-19
2-1(f)                     2A-20
2-2(a)                     11-81
2-2(b)                     11-80
2-11                       12-1
2-12                       12-1
3-3                        60-2
3-4                        60-2
4-1                        35-01
4-2                        35-15
4-3                        35-16
4-4                        35-17
4-5                        35-18
5-11                       40-1
5-12                       40-2
5-15                       40-4
8-1                        40-30
8-2                        40-31
8-4                        40-32
8-5                        40-33
9-1                        4A-1
9-1.1                      4A-140
9-3                        4A-20
9-6                        4A-35
9-10                       4A-2
10-1                       13-1
10-7                       13-3
10-8                       13-4
11-16                      11-40
11-17                      11-41
10-2 – 10-5              13-2
11-8                       45-8
12-15                      49-20
12-16                      49-21
12-20                      49-23
12-21                      49-24
12-17 – 12-19            49-22
13-1                       49-1
13-2                       49-2
13-3                       49-3
13-14                      49-10
13-15                      49-11
13-16                      49-12
13-17                      49-13
13-18                      49-14
15-12                      65-4
16-5                       30-20
16-7                       30-21
16-10                      30-22
16-262                     30-41
16-263                     30-42
16-264                     30-43
16-267                     30-44
16-268                     30-44
16-2610                    30-46
16-2611                    30-47
16-2612                    30-48
16-42 – 16-43            30-48
17-l                       73-1
17-2                       73-10
17-3                       73-16
17-5                       73-17
17.5-21                    2A-1
18-11                      11-50
18-12                      11-53
18-14                      11-51
18-17                      11-65
18-23                      11-51
18-33                      11-55
18-51                      11-54
18-25                      11-51
18-26                      11-51
18-15 – 18-16            11-52
18-35 – 18-37            11-55
19-2                       50-1
19-3                       50-2
20-1                       6A-1
21-1                       14-1
21-2(a)                    14-15
21-2(b)                    14-16
21-2(c)                    14-17
22-16                      9A-2
22-17                      9A-1
22-18                      9A-3
22-19(a)                   9A-4
22-19(b)                   9A-5
22-19(d)                   9A-6
22-20                      9A-7
22-21                      9A-8
22-22                      9A-10
22-23                      9A-9
22-25                      9A-12
Appendix A, Art. I, § 1   7A-1
Appendix A, Art. II, § 1  7A-3
Appendix A, Art. III, § 1 7A-15
Appendix A, Art. III, § 2 7A-15
Appendix A, Art. III, § 3 7A-16
Appendix A, Art. IV        7A-17
Appendix A, Art. V, § 1   7A-80
Appendix A, Art. V, § 3   7A-81
Appendix A, Art. V, § 4   7A-82
Appendix A, Art. V, § 5   7A-83
Appendix A, Art. V, § 6   7A-84
Appendix A, Art. V, § 7   7A-86
Appendix A, Art. V, § 8   7A-87
Appendix A, Art. VI        7A-30
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 1  7A-31
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 2  7A-32
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 3  7A-33
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 4  7A-34
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 5  7A-35
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 6  7A-36
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 7  7A-37
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 8  7A-38
Appendix A, Art. VI, § 9  7A-39
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 1 7A-50
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 2 7A-51
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 5 7A-53
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 6 7A-54
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 4 7A-52
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 7 7A-55
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 8 7A-56
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 9 7A-57
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 107A-58
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 117A-59
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 127A-60
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 137A-61
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 147A-62
Appendix A, Art. VII, § 157A-63
Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 14A-143
Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 34A-145
Appendix A, Art. VIII, § 74A-148
                           7A-135,
Appendix A, Art. IX        7A-137,
                           7A-150
Appendix A, Art. IX, § 1  7A-151
Appendix A, Art. X, § 1   7A-152
Appendix A, Art. X, § 2   7A-152
Appendix A, Art. X, § 3   7A-152
Appendix A, Art. X, § 4   7A-153
Appendix A, Art. X, § 5   7A-154
Appendix A, Art. X, § 6   7A-156
Appendix A, Art. XIII      7A-100
Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 17A-101
Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 27A-102
Appendix A, Art. XIII, § 57A-104
Appendix A, Art. XIV, § 1 71-120
Appendix A, Art. XIV, § 2 7A-121
Appendix A, Art. XV, § 1  7A-2
Appendix A, Art. XVI, § 1 7A-172
Appendix A, Art. XVII, § 17A-173
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1980 CODE
 
1980 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1-9               1-22
1-10              1-24
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         30-22
–      - -         47-1
–      11-16-62    12-1
–      11-15-63    40-32
–      4-23-65     35-17 –
                     35-18
–      9-25-68     11-41
–      12-10-68    60-2
–      7-8-69      40-31 –
                     40-32
–      - -70       35-16
                     35-01,
–      11-10-70    35-17 –
                     35-18
–      12-8-70     11-55,
                     11-65
–      1-26-71     13-1
–      1-25-72     30-48
                     4A-143 –
                     4A-145,
                     4A-148,
                     7A-1 –
                     7A-3,
                     7A-15,
                     7A-17,
                     7A-30 –
                     7A-39,
                     7A-50,
                     7A-52 –
                     7A-58,
                     7A-60 –
                     7A-62,
–      9-26-72     7A-63,
                     7A-80 –
                     7A-84,
                     7A-86,
                     7A-87,
                     7A-100 –
                     7A-104,
                     7A-120,
                     7A-121,
                     7A-135,
                     7A-137,
                     7A-150 –
                     7A-154,
                     7A-156,
                     7A-172,
                     7A-173
–      12-11-73    12-1
73-2     8-14-73     49-3
74-2     3-26-74     4A-20,
                     4A-35
74-3     9-24-74     7A-36
75-1     2-11-75     7A-51
                     9A-1 –
75-3     5-27-75     9A-10,
                     9A-12
75-6     9-9-75      14-15,
                     14-17
76-2     6-8-76      2A-15 –
                     2A-20
                     7A-3,
76-3     8-10-76     7A-52,
                     7A-53
                     4A-140,
77-3     10-25-77    11-80 –
                     11-81
78-3     2-14-78     35-15
78-4     3-14-78     7A-31 –
                     7A-35
78-5     3-14-78     7A-63
78-4     3-14-78     7A-31 –
                     7A-34
78-9     5-22-78     4A-145,
                     7A-51
78-1     10-10-78    35-15
79-1     1-23-79     49-3,
                     49-12
79-3     8-28-79     60-2
79-6     3-13-79     45-8
79-7     3-27-79     11-55,
                     11-65
79-13    10-23-79    65-4 
80-6     4-22-80     4A-20
80-9     6-24-80     2A-1
80-10    5-27-80     30-41 –
                     30-48 
80-17    11-11-80    4A-20
81-6     5-12-81     7A-120
81-9     8-25-81     11-54
83-3     3-15-83     7A-50
                     4A-2,
83-4     8-23-83     4A-20,
                     4A-35
84-3     5-8-84      40-33
84-5     6-26-84     60-2
85-1     2-12-85     40-33
                     61-1 –
                     61-4,
                     61-15 –
                     61-28,
85-4     11-20-85    61-35 –
                     61-38,
                     61-45 –
                     61-46,
                     61-55 –
                     61-56
                     4A-143,
                     4A-145,
                     7A-2,
                     7A-3,
                     7A-15,
                     7A-16,
                     7A-31 –
                     7A-38,
                     7A-50,
                     7A-51,
                     7A-52,
                     7A-53,
                     7A-57,
                     7A-58,
85-7     11-12-85    7A-60 –
                     7A-62,
                     7A-63,
                     7A-64,
                     7A-66,
                     7A-81 –
                     7A-84,
                     7A-101,
                     71-120,
                     7A-135,
                     7A-137,
                     7A-150,
                     7A-152,
                     7A-172,
                     7A-173
85-8     1-20-86     5A-1 –
                     5A-9
85-9     1-14-86     60-2
86-1     2-25-86     1-99
86-3     2-25-86     4A-115 –
                     4A-126
86-5     3-25-86     40-20 –
                     40-25
86-9     5-13-86     47-17 –
                     47-22 
86-11    7-8-86      65-4 
                     45-4,
86-19    12-9-86     45-6,
                     45-7
86-21    12-9-86     11-1
87-01    1-20-87     7A-135 ,
                     7A-137
                     7A-3,
                     7A-31 –
                     7A-35,
                     7A-38,
                     7A-50,
                     7A-52,
87-02    5-12-87     7A-57,
                     7A-60,
                     7A-62,
                     7A-67 –
                     7A-69,
                     7A-83,
                     7A-152 –
                     7A-156 
                     4A-119,
87-04    3-10-87     4A-123,
                     4A-125,
                     4A-127
                     11-15,
87-05    4-14-87     11-16 –
                     11-19
87-08    8-25-87     49-21
                     46-1 –
87-09    7-28-87     46-5,
                     46-20 –
                     46-22
                     9A-3,
                     9A-7,
87-13    9-22-87     9A-8,
                     9A-10,
                     9A-12
87-14    9-22-87     45-13
87-15    10-13-87    60-4
87-16    11-24-87    51-1 –
                     51-4
87-17    12-8-87     11-90 –
                     11-94
87-18    12-8-87     52-1 –
                     52-7
88-01    9-6-88      2A-1
90-3     3-14-90     11-90 –
                     11-91
                     7A-31 –
90-04    4-25-90     7A-35,
                     7A-40
90-05    5-9-90      11-54
90-08    12-19-90    49-40 –
                     49-43
90-9     10-31-90    7A-87
90-10    11-14-90    11-66 –
                     11-71
91-01    5-15-91     66-1 –
                     66-3
91-04    5-31-91     13-2
                     11-100,
92-02    4-15-92     11-102 –
                     11-103
                     47-1 –
                     47-2,
92-03    6-17-92     47-5 –
                     47-6,
                     47-15
92-04    9-16-92     11-65
92-06    11-18-92    53-1 –
                     53-7
                     15-1 –
92-08    11-18-92    15-6,
                     15-8,
                     15-10
92-09    12-16-92    15-20 –
                     15-33
                     4A-20,
92-10    1-20-93     4A-65,
                     4A-81,
                     4A-83
92-11    1-20-93     4A-50
92-12    1-20-93     45-4 -
                     45-7
93-01    3-10-93     7A-50
                     11-66,
93-02    7-21-94     11-67,
                     11-69 -
                     11-72
94-01    6-15-94     7A-50
94-03    10-18-94    11-54
94-05    12-14-94    Ch. 19
                     30-41 -
94-07    1-18-95     30-44,
                     30-47
95-01    7-19-95     7A-68
                     30-41,
95-02    7-19-95     30-43.1,
                     30-44
95-03    1-17-96     2A-1
95-04    1-17-96     7A-15(a)
95-05    2-21-96     50-3
96-01    4-17-96     4A-63,
                     7A-152
96-02    4-17-96     4A-50
                     4A-20,
                     4A-65,
96-03    4-17-96     4A-81,
                     4A-83,
                     7A-152
                     45-4,
96-04    5-15-96     45-5,
                     45-7
96-06    9-18-96     11-54
97-01    5-21-97     7A-152(d)(1), (2)
97-02    6-18-97     35-02
97-03    11-19-97    45-8
97-04    3-16-98     1A-3,
                     7A-53
                     47-00,
98-01    2-18-98     47-1,
                     47-23,
                     47-24
98-02    3-16-98     14-26 -
                     14-33
                     4A-20,
98-03    4-15-98     4A-65,
                     4A-81,
                     4A-83
98-04    6-18-98     1A-3,
                     1A-7
98-05    10-29-98    11-54(d)(2)(A)
                     4A-144,
99-02    2-17-99     7A-152,
                     7A-171
99-04    6-16-99     14-27,
                     14-29
99-05    9-15-99     15-90 –
                     15-93
99-06    11-17-99    53-2
2000-01  3-15-00     1-25
2000-02  3-15-00     10-1
2000-03  7-19-00     30-1,
                     30-2
2000-04  8-16-00     27-1 –
                     27-13
                     Chtr.
2001-01  8-15-01     2.02;
                     13-6
2001-02  10-17-01    10-2
2002-01  1-16-02     11-54
2002-02  3-20-02     73-30 –
                     73-47
2002-03  3-20-02     14-2 –
                     14-9
2002-05  3-20-02     13-7
                     15-21,
                     15-22,
2003-01  5-14-03     15-27 –
                     15-29,
                     15-31,
                     15-34
2003-03  11-17-04    11-54
                     1A-3,
2003-04  12-17-03    7A-36,
                     7A-50
                     1A-3,
                     7A-31 –
2004-01  9-15-04     7A-35,
                     7A-55,
                     7A-59,
                     7A-137
                     11-1,
                     1A-3,
                     7A-152,
2004-02  7-21-04     7A-154,
                     7A-155,
                     7A-170,
                     7A-171
2004-09  11-17-04    7A-52
1-2005   7-20-05     Chtr.
                     6.06
                     1A-3,
2-2005   7-20-05     7A-36,
                     7A-50
4-2005   8-17-05     16-1 –
                     16-6
5-2005   11-2-05     13-2
6-2005   11-2-05     11-110 –
                     11-115
2006-02  3-15-06     35-15
2006-03  4-19-06     15-24
2006-06  5-17-06     7A-137
                     1A-3,
                     7A-17,
                     7A-31 –
                     7A-35,
2006-08  8-30-06     7A-40,
                     7A-55,
                     7A-59,
                     7A-70,
                     7A-152
2006-11  11-15-06    12-15 –
                     12-21
                     7A-34 –
                     7A-38,
2006-12  8-14-07     7A-53,
                     7A-57,
                     7A-58
2006-16  12-13-06    11-120 –
                     11-123
2006-17  3-21-07     1A-3,
                     7A-57
2007-04  6-6-07      65-1 –
                     65-15
2007-08  11-14-07    7A-38
2007-09  11-14-07    11-54
2007-10  2-20-08     1A-3,
                     7A-65
2007-13  1-23-08     11-54
2008-01  2-20-08     1-40
2008-02  3-19-08     5A-2
                     4A-20,
                     4A-21,
                     4A-35,
                     4A-37,
                     4A-50,
2008-03  3-19-08     4A-63,
                     4A-65,
                     4A-81,
                     4A-83,
                     4A-123,
                     4A-145
2008-04  4-16-08     27-20 –
                     27-36
                     14-27,
                     14-28,
2008-05  6-18-08     14-29,
                     14-31,
                     14-32,
                     14-33
2008-06  7-16-08     30-43.1
2008-07  7-2-08      13-6
                     7A-36 -
                     7A-38,
2008-08  9-3-08      7A-52,
                     7A-152,
                     9A-7
                     1A-3,
2008-09  11-19-08    7A-38,
                     7A-53
2009-01  2-18-09     49-51 -
                     49-60
2009-02  2-18-09     49-61 -
                     49-63
                     7A-36-
2009-03  4-15-09     7A-38,
                     7A-52,
                     9A-7
2009-05  11-3-09     Chtr.
                     8.09
2009-06  4-2-09      11-54
2009-07  8-19-09     7A-67
2010-01  3-17-10     7A-51.1,
                     7A-137
2010-02  3-17-10     7A-81
2010-03  3-17-10     27-50 -
                     27-60
                     13-1,
                     13-1.1,
                     13-1.2,
                     13-2,
                     13-3,
2010-04  4-21-10     13-4,
                     13-5,
                     13-5.1,
                     13-5.2,
                     13-6,
                     13-6.1
2010-05  6-16-10     2A-1
2010-07  10-20-10    2A-1
2011-01  3-16-11     1-20,
                     1-26
2011-02  6-15-11     7A-52
2011-04  9-21-11     60-2,
                     60-2.1
2011-05  8-17-11     Chtr.
                     6.06
2012-01  3-21-12     11-19
2012-02  5-16-12     11-54
2012-04  7-18-12     5A-6
                     1A-3 ,
2013-02  5-15-13     7A-36 ,
                     7A-37
2013-05  9-18-13     1A-3 ,
                     7A-84
                     4A-20,
2014-01  2-19-14     4A-85 - 4A-114,
                     4A-170 -
                     4A-238
2014-02  4-16-14     1A-7
2014-03  4-16-14     13-2,
                     13-6
2014-04  6-18-14     73-50 -
                     73-54
                     27-51,
2014-07  6-18-14     27-53 -
                     27-56,
                     27-59
                     1A-3,
                     7A-31 -
2014-08  10-29-14    7A-39,
                     7A-50,
                     7A-62,
                     7A-62.1
2016-01  10-19-16    1A-3,
                     7A-38
2016-02  12-21-16    7A-31 -
                     7A-33
2017-02  8-16-17     Chtr.
                     3.04
2017-04  11-15-17    11-54
                     1A-1,
                     1A-3 -
                     1A-7,
                     2A-1,
                     2A-15 -
                     2A-20,
                     3A-1 -
                     3A-10,
                     3A-20,
                     3A-40,
                     3A-50,
                     3A-60,
                     3A-70,
                     3A-80,
                     3A-90,
                     4A-1,
                     4A-2,
                     4A-20,
                     4A-21,
                     4A-35,
                     4A-37,
                     4A-50,
                     4A-63,
                     4A-65,
                     4A-81,
                     4A-83,
                     4A-115 -
                     4A-127,
                     4A-140,
                     4A-143 -
                     4A-145,
2017-05  12-20-17    4A-148,
                     4A-170 -
                     4A-238,
                     5A-1 -
                     5A-9,
                     6A-1,
                     7A-1 -
                     7A-3,
                     7A-15 -
                     7A-17,
                     7A-30 -
                     7A-40,
                     7A-50 -
                     7A-70,
                     7A-80 -
                     7A-87,
                     7A-100 -
                     7A-102,
                     7A-104,
                     7A-120,
                     7A-121,
                     7A-135 -
                     7A-137,
                     7A-150 -
                     7A-156,
                     7A-170 -
                     7A-173,
                     9A-1 -
                     9A-10,
                     9A-12,
                     11A-1 -
                     11A-4
                     1A-3,
                     7A-36,
2018-03  8-15-18     7A-37,
                     7A-50,
                     7A-62.1
                     40-20,
2019-01  7-17-19     40-22 -
                     40-24
2019-02  7-17-19     13-6
                     1A-3,
2019-04  9-18-19     7A-30 -
                     7A-33
2019-05  9-18-19     7A-71
2019-03  7-17-19     Chtr. 3.03
                     1A-3,
2019-04  9-18-19     7A-30 -
                     7A-33
2019-05  9-18-19     7A-71
                     3A-80,
                     4A-238,
2019-06  1-15-20     7A-50 -
                     7A-51.1,
                     7A-87
2020-01  2-19-20     15-6
                     74-1 -
                     74-6,
                     74-15 -
2020-02  5-20-20     74-25,
                     74-35 -
                     74-39,
                     74-50,
                     74-51
2020-03  10-21-20    7A-67
2020-04  9-16-20     7A-102,
                     7A-103
                     1-26,
                     11-15 -
                     11-22,
                     27-34,
2020-05  10-21-20    46-20,
                     49-3,
                     49-54 -
                     49-57,
                     65-6
2020-06  10-21-20    11-54
2021-03  8-18-21     16-3
2021-04  4-20-22     2A-1
                     11-41,
                     45-1 -
2021-05  11-17-21    45-16,
                     75-1 -
                     75-5
2022-01  7-20-22     30-100 -
                     30-109
                     15-10,
2022-02  8-17-22     15-22,
                     15-24,
                     15-27
                     7A-53,
                     7A-58,
2023-01  3-15-23     9A-4 -
                     9A-7,
                     9A-10,
                     9A-12
2024-07  7-17-24     7A-57
                     1A-3,
2024-02  5-15-24     7A-31 -
                     7A-33
2024-04  6-19-24     73-60 -
                     73-62
                     74-1 -
                     74-3,
                     74-6,
                     74-15,
                     74-16,
                     74-18 -
2024-05  2-19-25     74-20,
                     74-22,
                     74-24,
                     74-25,
                     74-36 -
                     74-42,
                     74-50
2024-06  2-19-25     48-1 -
                     48-8
2025-01  3-19-25     7A-55
                    
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
79-31    11-8-79     30-41 –
                     30-48
80-09    3-20-80     30-44,
                     30-47
 
