MEXICO BEACH, FLORIDA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-9 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 836, passed 4-9-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
ARTICLE I: BOUNDARIES AND POWERS
   
1.01   Continuation of City
   
1.02   Creation of City
   
1.03   Boundaries
   
1.04   Powers
   
1.05   Debts and Obligations Impaired
   
1.06   Maximum Building Heights
ARTICLE II: CITY COUNCIL, MAYOR
   
2.01   General Powers and Duties
   
2.02   Composition, Qualifications and Terms of Office
   
2.03   Schedule
   
2.04   Prohibitions
   
2.05   Organization and Selection of Certain Officers
   
2.06   Vacancies; Forfeiture of Office
   
2.07   Mayor
   
2.08   Mayor Pro-Tem
   
2.09   Meetings and Procedures
   
2.10   Action Requiring an Ordinance
   
2.11   Adoption of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
2.12   Emergency Ordinances
   
2.13   Codes of Technical Regulations
   
2.14   Signatures and Authentication
   
2.15   Codification
   
2.16   Review
   
2.17   City Administrator
   
2.18   City Clerk
ARTICLE III: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
   
3.01   General Provisions
ARTICLE IV: FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
   
4.01   Fiscal Year
   
4.02   Submission of Budget
   
4.03   Budget
   
4.04   Council Action on Budget
   
4.05   Public Records
   
4.06   Lapse of Appropriations
   
4.07   Independent Audit
   
4.08   Establishment of Boards and Committees
ARTICLE V: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
   
5.01   Electors
   
5.02   Nonpartisan Elections
   
5.03   Nominations
   
5.04   Procedures
   
5.05   Elections
   
5.06   Ballots for Ordinances and Charter Amendments
ARTICLE VI: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
   
6.01   General Authority
   
6.02   Commencement of Proceedings; Petitioners Committee; Affidavit
   
6.03   Petitions
   
6.04   Procedure after Filing
   
6.05   Actions on Petitions
   
6.06   Results of Election
   
6.07   Recall
ARTICLE VII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
7.01   Separability
   
7.02   Conflicting Ordinances
   
7.03   Continuation in Force of Nonconflicting Ordinances; Repeal of Uncodified
Ordinances
   
7.04   Standards of Ethics
   
7.05   Per Diem and Traveling Expense of City Officers, Employees and
Authorized Persons
   
7.06   Purchases; Competitive Bids
   
7.07   State Law References; Inclusion in Charter
   
7.08   Charter Amendments and Revisions; Filing of Same with Original
   
7.09   Changes in Governing Law; Charter Amendments
ARTICLE VIII: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   
8.01   Pending Matters
   
8.02   Officers and Employees
ARTICLE I: BOUNDARIES AND POWERS
SECTION 1.01 CONTINUATION OF CITY.
   The City of Mexico Beach, in Bay County, State of Florida, shall continue as
a municipality under the laws of the State of Florida. A referendum amending
the Charter of the City of Mexico Beach, Bay County, Florida, providing for and
prescribing its government, jurisdiction, powers, duties, franchises and
privileges; authorizing the imposition and limitations of penalties for the
violation of its ordinances, providing for a transition from current Charter to
the proposed Charter.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 1.02 CREATION OF CITY.
   Let it hereby be known that the City of Mexico Beach, Bay County, Florida,
was created by an act of the State of Florida legislature on June 22, 1967,
House Bill #3012 and amended on 1-7-85; and hereafter in this Charter all
references to “City” said “City” shall mean and be taken and held to mean, and
refer to, the City of Mexico Beach, Florida.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 1.03 BOUNDARIES.
   The territorial boundaries of the City of Mexico Beach shall be those
presently existing and described as follows:
   Begin at the Northwest corner of Fractional Section 23, Township 6 South,
Range 12 West, and extend a line Easterly along the line between Sections 14
and 23 for one-half mile, more or less, to the Northeast corner of the West
Half of said Fractional Section 23; then Southerly along the East line of said
West half for one-half mile, more or less, to the Northwest corner of the
Southeast Quarter of the aforesaid Fractional Section 23; thence Easterly along
the North line of said Southeast Quarter for one-half mile, more or less, to
the Northeast corner of said Southeast Quarter; then Southerly along the line
between Sections 23 and 24 for one-quarter mile, more or less, to the Southwest
corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 24;
thence Easterly along the South line of said Northwest Quarter of the Southwest
Quarter for one-quarter mile, more or less, to the Southeast corner of said
Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter; then Northerly along the East line
of said Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter for one-quarter mile, more
or less, to the North line of the South one-half of the aforesaid Section 24;
then Easterly along said North line of the South half for one-half mile, more
or less, to the Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast
Quarter, then Southerly along the East line of said Northwest Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter for one-quarter mile, more of less, to the Southwest corner
of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter; then Easterly along the
South line of said Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter for one-quarter
mile, more or less, to the Northeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter of the aforesaid Section 24; thence Southerly along the East
line of said Section 24 for one-quarter mile more or less, to the Northeast
corner of Fractional Section 25; thence westerly along the line between Section
24 and Fractional Section 25 for one-quarter mile, more or less, to the
Northeast Corner of the West Half of the East Half of said Fractional Section
25; then Southerly along the East line of the aforesaid West Half of the East
Half for one-half mile, more or less, to the Northwest Corner of the Northeast
Quarter of the Southeast Quarter; thence Easterly along the North line of the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter for one-quarter mile, more or less,
to the Northeast Corner of the Southeast Quarter of Fractional Section 25; then
Southerly along the East line of said Fractional Section 25 to a point on the
mean high water line of the Gulf of Mexico; then South 45° West across the
waters of the Gulf of Mexico for 1500 feet; thence turn right and extend a line
Northwesterly that is parallel to and 1500 feet Southwesterly of the mean high
water line of the Gulf of Mexico to a point that is South 11° West and 1500
feet from the Southwest Corner of Mexico Beach, Unit No. 7; thence North 11°
East for 1500 feet to the mean high water line of the Gulf of Mexico at said
Southwest corner of Mexico Beach, Unit No. 7; then North 16° 40’ East along the
Western boundary line of said Mexico Beach, Unit No. 7 for 941 feet, more or
less, to the North line of Fractional Section 22, Township 6 South, Range 12
West; thence Easterly along said line of Fractional Section 22 for one-half
mile, more or less, to the point of beginning.
   The above description embraces a part of Fractional Sections 22, 23, and 25;
all of Fractional Section 26; a part of Section 24 and a 1500-foot wide portion
of the Gulf of Mexico lying adjacent to the above described lands, all in
Township 6 South, Range 12 West, Mexico Beach, Bay County, State of Florida.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 1.04 POWERS.
   (A)   The City shall have all powers granted municipalities under the
constitution and general laws of the State of Florida and shall have implied
and incidental powers to exercise the powers so granted.
   (B)   The powers of the City, under this Charter, shall be construed
liberally in favor of the City.
   (C)   The City shall have perpetual succession and use a common seat.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Intergovernmental Programs, see F.S. Ch. 163
   Municipal Home Rule Powers Act, see F.S. Ch. 166
SECTION 1.05 DEBTS AND OBLIGATIONS IMPAIRED.
   No obligation or contracts of said City, including any bonds heretofore
issued, shall be impaired or voided by this act; but all such debts and
obligations shall continue unimpaired and pass to and be binding upon the
municipality.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 1.06 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   As of the effective date of this Section, aside from the approved exemptions
set forth below, no building or other structure shall be constructed, erected,
situated or located, in the City of Mexico Beach as its boundaries are
currently located as of the effective date of this Section, which exceeds the
height set forth in the zoning districts as contained in the City’s Land
Development Code as of the effective date of this Section. Those restrictions
are as follows: 32ft (thirty-two feet) for Zoning Districts Residential Low
Density; Residential General; High Density Residential; Townhome District;
Tourist Commercial; Public Institutional; and Recreation; and 48ft (forty-
eight feet) in General Commercial; and Tourist Mixed Use. However, this Charter
provision shall not restrict any property owner’s vested rights under
constitutional, statutory or common law.
   Existing buildings which currently exceed the allowable height restrictions
contained in their current Zoning District may be repaired to that existing
height. No alterations shall be made to any building, which would cause that
building to exceed the current allowable height as of the effective date of
this Section.
   Exemptions: Chimneys, house of worship spires, elevator shafts, flagpoles,
heating and air conditioning systems, solar collectors with appropriate
screening and cell phone towers.
(Adopted by the electorate on 4-16-2024)
ARTICLE II: CITY COUNCIL, MAYOR
SECTION 2.01 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City shall be governed by a Council- Administrator form of government.
All powers of the City shall be vested in the City Council, hereinafter
referred to as the Council, except as otherwise provided by law or by this
Charter; and the Council shall provide for the exercise thereof and for the
performance of all duties and obligations imposed on the City by law.
(Ord. passed - -; amendment adopted by electorate on 4-16-2024)
SECTION 2.02 COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Council shall consist of five (5) members, elected at large by the
qualified voters of the City. They shall be qualified electors, citizens of the
United States and shall have resided within the corporate limits of the City at
least one (1) year prior to the date of their qualifying for office.
   (A)   Qualifying for Council Seat. Any qualified elector of the city who
meets the foregoing qualifications may qualify for election to a Council seat
by designating the group number for which he desires to run and by paying such
filing fee as the City Council may prescribe to the City Clerk not less than
thirty (30) days nor more than forty-five (45) days prior to the date of such
election. Any such qualified elector who files a sworn statement with the City
Clerk of inability to pay said filing fee and providing to the City Clerk a
petition signed by fifty (50) qualified City electors within the above
prescribed period may qualify for election to a Council seat without payment of
said filing fee.
   (B)   Judge of Qualifications. The City Council shall have sole discretion
in determining whether or not candidates have met the qualifications for
election to the Council.
   (C)   Terms of Office. The terms of Council members shall be for two (2)
years, which term of office shall begin on the first Monday in December
following their election and until their successors are fully elected and
qualified. The offices of the members of the City Council, including Mayor-
Councilman, are hereby designated as groups 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, all of said
groups to be filled by candidates running-at-large. The mayor-councilman is
designated as Group 1. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes cast
in the respective group shall be declared elected.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.03 SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Initial composition of Council. The initial membership of the City
Council shall consist of the five (5) members of the City Council of Mexico
Beach who are in office holding said seats on the effective date of this
revised and amended Charter.
   (B)   The term of office of each present Council member and his respective
seat under this Charter shall expire:
   GROUP 1: Upon the election of a successor in the April, 2005 election (Odd
Year)
   GROUP 2: Upon the election of a successor in the April, 2005 election (Odd
Year)
   GROUP 3: Upon the election of a successor in the April, 2005 election (Odd
Year)
   GROUP 4: Upon the election of a successor in the April, 2006 election (Even
Year)
   GROUP 5: Upon the election of a successor in the April, 2006 election (Even
Year)
   (C)   Effective date of Charter. This Charter shall take effect upon its
filing with the Department of State after adoption by a majority of the
electors voting in a referendum thereon.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 468, passed 4-13-2004)
SECTION 2.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   Holding other office. Except where authorized by law, no Council member
shall hold any other City office or City paid employment during the term of
which he is elected to the Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.05 ORGANIZATION AND SELECTION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   After each regular or special election for Council members, the Council
shall meet and elect from among their number a Mayor pro-tem who shall perform
the duties of such office for one (1) year or until his successor is duly
elected and qualified.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 2.06 VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Vacancies. A vacancy in the Council shall occur upon the death,
resignation or removal from office as authorized by law. When such vacancy
occurs, the remaining Council members shall select, within thirty (30) days
following the vacancy, by the affirmative vote of not less than three (3) of
the remaining members, a person to fill the vacancy until the next regular
election. At this election the seat shall be filled as provided herein for
elections for the balance, if any, of the unexpired term. An appointee shall be
a qualified elector of the City, a citizen of the United States, and have
resided within the corporate limits of the City for at least one (1) year prior
to the date of this appointment.
   Whenever three (3) or more vacancies shall occur at the same time, the mayor
shall, within thirty (30) days, call a special election to fill the vacancies.
Such election shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures for
elections. In no event shall the Council consist of more than two (2) members
serving on an appointive basis.
   (B)   Forfeiture of office. A Council member shall forfeit his office if he
lacks, at any time during his term of office, any qualification for the office
prescribed by this Charter or by law or fails to attend three (3) consecutive
regular meetings of the Council without being excused by the Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 2.07 MAYOR.
   The mayor, elected as aforesaid, shall be a voting member of the Council and
presiding officer. The mayor shall be recognized as head of City government for
all ceremonial purposes, by the governor for purposes of military law, for
service of process, execution of contracts, deeds and other documents, and as
the city official to represent the City in all agreements with other
governmental entities or certifications to other governmental entities. The
powers and duties of the mayor shall be such as conferred upon him by State
Laws, this Charter and by the City Council. (Ord. passed - - ; amendment
adopted by the electorate on 4-16-2024)
SECTION 2.08 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   The mayor pro-tem, appointed as aforesaid, shall perform the duties of the
mayor in the event the office of mayor becomes vacant or the mayor is unable to
perform any of his duties by reason of absence from the City or in the event of
his incapacity. A new mayor pro-tem shall be appointed from among the remaining
members of the Council in the event the office of mayor becomes vacant, until a
new mayor is elected at the next regular election.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 2.09 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Meetings. The Council shall meet regularly the second Tuesday of each
month and at such times as it may prescribe by resolution. Special meetings may
be held on the call of the mayor or three (3) or more members of the Council.
   (B)   Procedure. The Council shall determine its own rules and order of
business and shall provide for keeping a minute book of its proceedings. The
minute book shall be a public record.
   (C)   No action of the Council shall be valid or binding unless adopted or
approved by the affirmative vote of majority of the members of the Council
constituting a quorum when the action is introduced. A two thirds (2/3) vote of
the membership of the Council is required to enact an emergency ordinance.
Voting on all ordinances, except on procedural motions, shall be by roll call
and the ayes and nays recorded in the minute book.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 2.10 ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE.
   In addition to acts required by law or by specific provisions of this
Charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the City Council shall be by
ordinance which (1) adopt or amend an administrative code; (2) establish a rule
or regulation, a violation of which carries a penalty; (3) grant, renew, or
extend a franchise; (4) set service or use charges for municipal services or
grant administrative authority for such charges; (5) levy taxes, except as
otherwise provided with respect to the property tax levied by adoption of the
budget; (6) authorize the borrowing of money; (7) convey or lease or authorize
the conveyance or lease of any lands of the City; (8) amend or repeal any
ordinance previously adopted.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.11 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Form. Every proposed ordinance or resolution shall be introduced in
writing in the form required for final adoption and shall embrace but one
subject, which shall be clearly stated in the title. Any ordinance which amends
an existing ordinance shall set out in full the ordinance, sections or
subsections to be amended. The enacting clause shall be “Be it Ordained by the
City Council of Mexico Beach.”
   (B)   Procedure. An ordinance may be introduced at any regular or special
meeting of the Council in writing. Upon introduction of any ordinance a copy
shall be distributed to each member and to the City Clerk and such other places
as the Council may designate. Procedure for adoption shall be as prescribed in
Florida Statutes.
   (C)   Effective Date. Except for emergency ordinances, all ordinances or
resolutions passed by the Council by a majority vote shall become effective ten
(10) days after passage or as otherwise provided therein or as set by law.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Procedures for the adoption of ordinances and resolutions, see F.S. §
166.041
SECTION 2.12 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property or the public
peace, the Council may adopt one or more emergency ordinances; but such
ordinances may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; or set
service or user charges for any municipal services.
   (A)   Form. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and
manner prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly
designated in a preamble as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the
enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing
it in clear and, specific terms.
   (B)   Procedure. An emergency ordinance maybe adopted with or without
amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the
affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of all Council members shall be
required for adoption. After its adoption, the ordinance shall be published and
printed as prescribed for other adopted ordinances.
   (C)   Effective date. Emergency ordinances shall become effective upon
adoption or at such other date as may be specified in the ordinance.
   (D)   Repeal. Every emergency ordinance, except emergency appropriations,
shall automatically stand repealed as of the ninety-first (91st) day following
the date on which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the
ordinance under regular procedures, or if the emergency still exists, in the
manner specified in this section. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed
by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this
section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.13 CODES OF TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   The Council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by
reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements
governing such an adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances in
Florida State Law.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.14 SIGNATURES AND AUTHENTICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the mayor and the City Clerk, or other person
appointed by the Council, to sign the original copy of each ordinance or
resolution upon its final passage. Said parties shall record in full, in a
properly indexed book kept for this purpose and authenticated by his or her
signature, this Charter and all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the
Council. The original copy of all ordinances and resolutions shall be filed in
the City’s Official Ordinance Book.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 2.15 CODIFICATION.
   The Council is authorized to provide for the preparation of a general
codification of all City ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent
nature having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be
adopted by form, together with the Charter and any amendments thereto, and such
codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the Council
may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as the City
of Mexico Beach Code according to Florida Statutes or Florida Law. Copies of
the code shall be furnished to City officers, placed in public offices for free
public reference and made available for purchase by the public at cost, as
fixed by the Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.16 REVIEW.
   All ordinances, resolutions and codes of technical regulations shall be
reviewed on the fifth (5th) anniversary of their effective date.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 2.17 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The office of City Administrator is hereby established. The City
Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council. The City Administrator shall be selected by the City
Council on the basis education, expertise, and/or management ability as it
pertains to municipal government.
(Adopted by the electorate on 4-16-2024)
SECTION 2.18 CITY CLERK.
   There shall be a City Clerk who shall be appointed by the City Council. The
City Clerk shall perform such duties as are assigned by the City Council.
(Adopted by the electorate on 4-26-2024)
ARTICLE III: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 3.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Creation of Departments. The Council may establish city departments,
offices or agencies in addition to those created by this Charter as it deems
necessary and may establish any position(s) necessary for operation of City
services and may prescribe the duties and functions of all positions,
departments, offices and agencies.
   (B)   Supervision. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter or by
general law, the Council will be responsible for designating the position or
individual responsible for the supervision and direction of each department,
agency or office of the City.
(Ord. passed - -)
ARTICLE IV: FINANCIAL PROCEDURES
SECTION 4.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of October and end
the last day of September the following year.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.02 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET.
   On or before the first day of August of each year, or as otherwise required
by law, the City Clerk or other officer designated by the Council shall submit
to the Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.03 BUDGET.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan of all City funds and
activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by law or this
Charter, shall be in such form as the Mayor or other designated officer deems
desirable or the Council may require.
   The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the total of estimated
income.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.04 COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   (A)   The Council shall, by ordinance, adopt the budget on or before the
thirtieth (30th) day of September of each year. If it fails to adopt the budget
by this date, the Council, by resolution, may direct that the amounts
appropriated for current operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed
adopted for the ensuing fiscal year for a period of thirty (30) days and
renewed by resolution each thirty (30) days with all items in it prorated
accordingly until such time as the Council adopts a budget for the ensuing
fiscal year. An ordinance adopting an annual budget shall constitute
appropriations of the amounts specified therein as expenditures from the funds
indicated.
   (B)   Supplemental Appropriations. If, during the fiscal year, revenues in
excess of those estimated in the budget are available for appropriation, the
Council, by ordinance, may make supplemental appropriations for the year up to
the amount of such excess.
   (C)   Reduction of Appropriations. If at any time during the fiscal year it
appears probable to the Clerk that the revenues available will be insufficient
to meet the amount appropriated, this shall be reported to the Council without
delay, indicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action
taken by him/her with recommendations as to any other steps to be taken. The
Council shall then take such further action as it deems necessary to prevent or
minimize any deficit and for that purpose it may, by ordinance, reduce one (1)
or more appropriations.
   (D)   Limitations; Effective Date. No appropriation for debt service may be
reduced or transferred, and no appropriation may be reduced below any amount
required by law to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the
unencumbered balance thereof. The supplemental and emergency appropriations and
reduction or transfer of appropriations authorized by this section may be made
effective immediately upon adoption.
   (E)   The Council, in accordance with general law, shall establish
procedures, rules and regulations for formulation, hearings, public notice,
amendments, revisions, adoption and administration of the budget.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 4.05 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Copies of the budget and the capital program, as adopted, shall be public
records and shall be made available to the public in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.06 LAPSE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   Every appropriation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure,
shall lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not been
expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a capital expenditure shall
continue in force until the purpose for which it was made has been accomplished
or abandoned.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.07 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   The Council shall provide for an independent annual audit of all city
accounts in accordance with the rules of the Auditor General of Florida, which
shall include an annual examination of the financial position, the results of
operations, and changes in fund balances of all the city funds for the year
then ended in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and may
provide for such more frequent examinations as it deems necessary. Such
examinations shall be made by a certified public accountant, or firm or such
accountants having no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the fiscal
affairs of the city government or any of its officers.
   A management letter shall be rendered by the examining auditor setting forth
deficiencies, if any, disclosed by his examination and his suggestions for
improvements in internal controls. This letter shall be read at the next
regularly scheduled council meeting after its receipt. A copy of this letter
shall be filed with each copy of the audit report.
   If the auditor for the State of Florida should perform such an examination
and furnish such a letter, the council may accept them as satisfying the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 4.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.
   The City Council has the authority to establish such Boards and Committees
and appoint members thereto as may be necessary to meet the provisions of this
Charter.
(Ord. passed - - )
ARTICLE V: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Statutory reference:
   Electors and elections, the Florida Election Code, see F.S. Title IX,
Chapters 97 through 107
SECTION 5.01 ELECTORS.
   Any person who is a resident of this city, who has qualified as an elector
of the State, and who registers in the procedural manner prescribed by general
law and ordinance of the city shall be an elector of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see F.S. § 166.032
SECTION 5.02 NONPARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   All nominations and elections for the office of City Council shall be
conducted on a nonpartisan basis without regard for political party
affiliation. No designation of political party affiliation of any nominee shall
appear on any campaign literature, nomination petition or ballot.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 5.03 NOMINATIONS.
   Candidates for the office of City Council shall qualify for such office in
the manner prescribed in this Charter.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 5.04 PROCEDURES.
   The Council shall prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct of
elections including the form of the ballot and the method of listing candidates
for City Council elections.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 5.05 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   A regular city election shall be held on the third Tuesday in April
following the Third Monday of each election year starting in April of 2005.
(See Schedule, § 31.15) Each candidate receiving the highest number of votes
cast for each group in said election shall be declared elected to office as a
member of the City Council for the City of Mexico Beach.
   (B)   Multiple candidates. When more than two (2) persons qualify as
candidates for the office of City Council, for any of the designated groups to
be filled, the persons so qualified shall be voted upon at the regular city
election to be held as stated herein. To win the candidate must receive the
majority of all votes cast, 50% plus one vote. In the event, that no candidate
receives the majority of votes, 50% plus one vote, then the two candidates
receiving the most votes shall compete in a runoff election to be held two (2)
weeks from the first election with the candidate receiving the most votes in
the runoff election declared the winner. If any other provision contained in
this Charter is in conflict with Section 5.05 (B), then Section 5.05 (B) shall
take precedence and control.
   (C)   Single candidate. In the event only one person qualifies as a
candidate, either for ballot listing or a write-in candidate for a designated
group on the City Council to be filled at an election, that group shall not be
listed on the regular city election ballot and such candidate shall be declared
elected.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 468, passed 4-13-2004; amendment adopted by the
electorate on 4-16-2024)
SECTION 5.06 BALLOTS FOR ORDINANCES AND CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   An ordinance or a charter amendment to be voted on by the city shall be
presented for voting by ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ
from its legal title and shall be a clear, concise statement describing the
substance of the measure without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot shall
appear the following question: “Shall the above described (ordinance/amendment)
be adopted?” Immediately below such question shall appear in the following
order the word “FOR” and also the word “AGAINST” with a blank square after each
for the placing of the symbol “X” to indicate the voter’s choice or with levers
opposite “FOR” and “AGAINST” if voting machines are used.
(Ord. passed - - )
ARTICLE VI: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
SECTION 6.01 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Initiative. The qualified voters of the city shall have power,
provided that such power shall not extend to the budget or capital program or
any ordinance relating to the appropriation of money, levy of taxes, or
salaries of city officers or employees, to propose ordinances to the Council.
If the Council fails to adopt an ordinance so proposed without any change in
substance, the voters may adopt or reject it at a city election.
   (B)   Referendum. The qualified voters of the city shall have the power to
require reconsideration by the Council of any adopted ordinance; and if the
Council fails to repeal an ordinance so reconsidered, the voters may approve or
reject it at a city election. Such power shall not extend to the budget or
capital program or any ordinance relating to the appropriation of money, levy
of taxes, or salaries of city officers or employees.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.02 COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS; PETITIONERS’ COMMITTEE; AFFIDAVIT.
   Any five (5) qualified voters may commence initiative or referendum
proceedings by filing with the City Clerk an affidavit stating they will
constitute the petitioners’ committee and be responsible for circulating the
petition and filing it in proper form, stating their names and addresses and
specifying the address to which all notices to the committee are to be sent,
and setting out in full the proposed initiative ordinance or citing the
ordinance sought to be reconsidered.
   Promptly after the affidavit of the petitioners’ committee is filed, the
City Clerk shall issue the appropriate petition blanks to the petitioners’
committee.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.03 PETITIONS.
   (A)   Number of Signatures. Initiative and referendum petitions must be
signed by qualified voters of the city equal in number to at least twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total number of qualified voters registered to vote at the
last regular city election.
   (B)   Form and Content. All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size
and style and shall be assembled as one instrument for filing. Each signature
shall be executed in ink or indelible pencil and shall be followed by the
address of the person signing. Petitions shall contain or have attached
throughout their circulation the full text of the ordinance proposed or sought
to be reconsidered.
   (C)   Affidavit or Circulator. Each paper of a petition shall have attached
to it when filed an affidavit executed by the circulator thereof stating that
he personally circulated the paper, the number of signatures thereon, that all
the signatures were affixed in his presence, that he knows them to be the
genuine signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be and that each
signer had an opportunity before signing to read the full text of the ordinance
proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   (D)   Time for Filing Referendum Petitions. Referendum petitions must be
filed within thirty (30) days after adoption by the Council of the ordinance
sought to be reconsidered.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.04 PROCEDURE AFTER FILING.
   (A)   Certificate of Clerk; Amendment. Within twenty (20) days after the
petition is filed, the City Clerk shall complete a certificate as to its
sufficiency specifying, if it is insufficient, the particulars wherein it is
defective and shall promptly send a copy of the certificate to the petitioners’
committee by registered mail. Grounds for insufficiency are only those
specified in the above section. A petition certified insufficient for lack of
the required number of valid signatures may be amended once if the petitioners’
committee files a notice of intention to amend it with the Clerk within two (2)
days after receiving the copy of his certificate and files a supplementary
petition and additional papers within ten (10) days after receiving the copy of
such certificate. Such supplementary petition shall comply with the
requirements of subsections (B) and (C) of the above section; and within five
(5) days after it is filed, the Clerk shall complete a certificate as to the
sufficiency of the petition as amended and promptly send a copy of such
certificate to the petitioners’ committee by registered mail as in the case of
an original petition. If a petition or amended petition is certified sufficient
or if a petition or amended petition is certified insufficient and the
petitioners’ committee does not elect to amend or request Council review, under
subsection (B) of this section within the time required, the Clerk shall
promptly present his certificate to the Council and the certificate shall then
be a final determination as to the sufficiency of the petition.
   (B)   Council Review. If a petition has been certified insufficient and the
petitioners’ committee does not file notice of intention to amend it or if an
amended petition has been certified insufficient, the committee may, within two
(2) days after receiving the copy of such certificate, file a request that it
be reviewed by the Council. The Council shall review the certificate at its
next meeting following the filing of such request and approve or disapprove it,
and the Council’s determination shall then be a final determination as to the
sufficiency of the petition.
   (C)   New Petition. A final determination of insufficiency shall not
prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (D)   Costs. The cost of checking the names on a petition against the list
of registered voters shall be born by the petitioners’ committee.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.05 ACTIONS ON PETITIONS.
   (A)   Action by Council. When an initiative or referendum petition has been
finally determined sufficient, the Council shall promptly consider the proposed
initiative ordinance in the manner as stated in this charter or reconsider the
referred ordinance by voting its repeal. If the Council fails to adopt a pro-
initiative ordinance without any change in substance within sixty (60) days or
fails to repeal the referred ordinance within thirty (30) days after the date
the petition was finally determined sufficient, it shall submit the proposed or
referred ordinance to the voters of the city.
   (B)   Submission to Voters. The vote of the city on a proposed or referred
ordinance shall be held not less than thirty (30) days and not later than one
hundred eighty (180) days from the date or the final Council vote thereon. If
no regular city election is to be held within the period prescribed in this
subsection, the Council shall provide for a special election; otherwise, the
vote shall be held at the same time as such regular election, except the
Council may, in its discretion, provide for a special election at an earlier
date within the prescribed period. Copies of the proposed or referred ordinance
shall be made available at the polls.
   (C)   Withdrawal of Petitions. An initiative or referendum petition may be
withdrawn at any time prior to the fifteenth (15th) day preceding the date
scheduled for a vote of the city by filing with the City Clerk a request for
withdrawal signed by at least two- thirds (2/3) of the members of the
petitioners’ committee. Upon the filing of such request, the petition shall
have no further force or effect and proceedings thereon shall be terminated.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.06 RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   (A)   Initiative. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
proposed initiative ordinance vote in its favor, it shall be considered adopted
upon certification of the election results and shall be treated in all respects
in the same manner as ordinances of the same kind adopted by the Council. If
conflicting ordinances are approved at the same election, the one receiving the
greater number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of such
conflict.
   (B)   Referendum. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a
referred ordinance vote against it, it shall be considered repealed upon
certification of the election results.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 6.07 RECALL.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to remove from office
any elected official of the City in accordance with the general laws of the
state.
(Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Municipal recall, see F.S. § 100.361
ARTICLE VII: GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 7.01 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provision of the Charter is held invalid, the other provisions of the
Charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of the Charter or any
of its provisions to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
application of the Charter or its provisions to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 7.02 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances insofar as they conflict with or are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Charter shall be declared invalid and are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 7.03 CONTINUATION IN FORCE OF NONCONFLICTTNG ORDINANCES; REPEAL OF
UNCODIFIED ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances in effect upon the adoption of this Charter, to the extent
not inconsistent with it, shall remain in force until repealed or changed, as
provided herein.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 7.04 STANDARDS OF ETHICS.
   The general laws of the state governing the standards of conduct of public
officers and employees apply to all elected officials, public officers and
employees of the city. In addition, the Council may, by ordinance, establish a
code of ethics supplemental to general law for such officials, officers, and
employees.
(Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Code of Ethics for Public Officers and Employees, see F.S. §§ 112.311 et
seq.
SECTION 7.05 PER DIEM AND TRAVELING EXPENSE OF CITY OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND
AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   All officers or employees of the City of Mexico Beach shall be bound by the
provisions of general law governing per diem and travel expenses.
(Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Per diem and traveling expenses, see F.S. § 112.061
SECTION 7.06 PURCHASES; COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   The Council may establish, by ordinance, a method of competitive bidding for
purchases made by the City of Mexico Beach.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 7.07 STATE LAW REFERENCES; INCLUSION IN CHARTER.
   Where not inconsistent or in conflict with specific provisions of this
Charter, the general law of this state, and the state law references in this
Charter, shall be deemed to be a part of this Charter; and this City, its
officers and employees shall be governed thereby.
(Ord. passed - - )
SECTION 7.08 CHARTER AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS; FILING OF SAME WITH ORIGINAL.
   This Charter or any portion thereof may be amended or revised in accordance
with the general laws of the State. Any amendments or revisions shall be filed
together with the original of this Charter in the office of the City Clerk as
provided herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Charter amendments, see F.S. § 166.031
SECTION 7.09 CHANGES IN GOVERNING LAW; CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   Intent. It is the intent of this section to allow this Charter to be updated
and amended should there occur changes in the law governing this Charter and
the operation of this City. Then the City Council may, by ordinance, adopt, and
codify such changes and include such changes in this Charter without referendum
or vote of the electorate of this City.
(Ord. passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Charter amendments, see F.S. § 166.031
ARTICLE VIII: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 8.01 PENDING MATTERS.
   All rights, claims, liabilities, actions, orders, contracts and legal or
administrative proceedings shall continue, except as modified pursuant to the
provisions of this revised and amended Charter, and in each case, shall be
maintained, carried on, or dealt with by the city department, office or agency
appropriate hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
SECTION 8.02 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Rights and Privileges Preserved. Nothing in this revised and amended
Charter, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall affect or impair the
rights or privileges of persons who are city officers or employees at the time
of its adoption.
   (B)   Continuance of Office or Employment. At the time this revised and
amended Charter takes effect if a city employee holds any office or position
which can be abolished or ordered vacated hereunder, he shall continue in such
office or position until the taking effect of some action authorized under a
provision hereof directing that he vacate the office or position or that the
office or position be abolished.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Mexico Beach shall be
designated as the “Mexico Beach City Code”, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mexico Beach, Florida.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Bay County, Florida.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Florida.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of such chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to such indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and all amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(F.S. § 943.14(4)) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see F.S. §§
119.01 et seq.
§ 10.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   This adopted code shall be enforced by those city officials who are directed
by the City Administrator to administer Code Enforcement and have the training
to do so. This code may also be enforced by all sworn city law enforcement
officials.
(F.S. Ch. 162) (Ord. 446, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted
of a violation of any provisions of the code, ordinance, rule or regulation
adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, imprisonment not exceeding 60 days, or any combination thereof.
   (B)   Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall
occur shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is
expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any code section whether or
not such penalty is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city may pursue other
remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of
licenses or permits.
(Ord. 446, passed 9-9-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for violations of municipal ordinances, see F.S. § 162.22
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   [RESERVED]
      
33.   FEES
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
CHAPTER 30: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Purchasing Procedures
   
30.01   Expenditure of city funds by competitive bids
   
30.02   Purchasing
   
30.03   Purchase orders
   
30.04   Quotes required
Guidelines for Development; Concurrency Management System
   
30.15   Purpose
   
30.16   Certificate of traffic concurrency required
   
30.17   Adopted levels of service
   
30.18   Initial determination of concurrency
   
30.19   Burden of proof
   
30.20   De minimis exceptions
   
30.21   Allocation of capacity
   
30.22   Concurrency review submittal requirements
   
30.23   Minimum requirements for certificate of traffic concurrency
   
30.24   Expiration of certificate of traffic concurrency
   
30.25   Exceptions of traffic concurrency requirements
   
30.26   Strategies to rectify lack of traffic concurrency
   
30.27   Monitoring
   
30.28   Assurances
   
30.29   Appeals
   
30.30   Conflict
Proportionate Fair-Share Program
   
30.45   Purpose
   
30.46   Applicability
   
30.47   Exclusions
   
30.48   Minimum requirements for proportionate fair-share mitigation
   
30.49   Intergovernmental coordination
   
30.50   Application process
   
30.51   Methodology for determining proportionate fair-share mitigation
   
30.52   Certificate of concurrency for proportionate fair-share mitigation
   
30.53   Appropriation of fair-share revenues
   
30.54   Impact fee credit for proportionate fair-share mitigation
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 30.01 EXPENDITURE OF CITY FUNDS BY COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   Expenditures of $15,000 or more shall be by competitive bids, request for
proposals, or request for qualifications (collectively “competitive bids”).
Competitive bids will be solicited by advertisement in a local or area
newspaper of general circulation. This procedure may be supplemented by direct
mailings, posted notices and/or other advertising means when practical. The
best and lowest bid normally will be selected; however, the Council may reject
any or all bids or select other than the low bid where there is full
justification. An exception from competitive bids may be approved by Council
majority vote for goods and/or services needed to address an emergency; from
single source outlets, another unit of government, or one time auctions; all
supplies, materials, equipment, or services purchased at a price established in
a state contract of the State of Florida Department of General Services
Division of Purchasing; when piggybacking a public contract procured under
Florida law within the past 365 days; or where the best interest of the
citizens of the city require it after unsuccessfully attempting competitive
bidding.
(1998 Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 177, passed 4-8-1986; Ord. 612, passed 12-10-2013;
Ord. 714, passed 2-12-2019; Ord. 777, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 30.02 PURCHASING.
   The City Administrator has authority to make purchases in the amount of
$10,000 or less, so long as they are consistent with the city’s approved annual
budget. Purchases above this threshold must be taken to the City Council for
approval.
(Ord. 777, passed 12-14-2021)
§ 30.03 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   All purchases, contracts and/or agreements for work or service will be
executed by a properly authenticated purchase order. The Council may authorize
expenditures at specified establishments for recurring expense items and small
expendables with values of $20 or less without executing a purchase order. The
use of approved credit card purchases also are exempt from requiring a purchase
order.
(Ord. 177, passed 4-8-1986)
§ 30.04 QUOTES REQUIRED.
   Expenditures which are more than $3,000 but less than $8,000 shall only be
made after the receipt of three verbal quotes by the purchaser. Expenditures
which are more than $8,000 but less than $15,000 shall only be made after the
receipt of three written quotes by the purchaser.
(Ord. 612, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 777, passed 12-14-2021)
GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT; CONCURRENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
§ 30.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the requirements and
procedures necessary to implement the concurrency provisions of the City
Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Regulations.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to ensure the availability of public
transportation facilities and services and the adequacy of those facilities at
adopted levels of service concurrent with the impact of development. These
concurrency requirements shall apply only to transportation facilities,
including roads and public transit. All other provisions dealing with
concurrency management are contained in land development regulations relating
to: sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage and potable water; and parks and
recreation.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.16 CERTIFICATE OF TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of traffic concurrency shall be required in conjunction
with the issuance of any development order.
   (B)   No development order or permit shall be issued in a manner that will
result in a reduction below the adopted levels of service found in the City
Comprehensive Plan unless adequate mitigation is provided.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.17 ADOPTED LEVELS OF SERVICE.
   The adopted level of service (LOS) standards for transportation facilities
are those contained in the Transportation Element of the City Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.18 INITIAL DETERMINATION OF CONCURRENCY.
   At the request of the applicant or at the discretion of: the employee of the
cities in charge of the Planning Department or his or her designee; an employee
of the county designated by the county and providing services under an
interlocal agreement between the city and the county; or an employee of a
third-party under contract with the city to provide services relating to this
subchapter (“Planning Official”), an initial determination of concurrency may
be performed prior to the issuance of any development order and a conditional
certificate of traffic concurrency for traffic issued. This conditional
certificate of traffic concurrency shall not be binding on the city. Only those
certificates of concurrency issued in conjunction with development orders shall
be binding.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.19 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of showing compliance with the adopted levels of service and
meeting the concurrency evaluation shall be upon the applicant, the Planning
Official or his or her designee will assist in the preparation of the necessary
documentation and information.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.20 DE MINIMIS EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   If a proposed development relates to land use of such a low intensity
as to have a de minimis effect pursuant to F.S. § 163.3180(6), if any, upon the
level of service standards set forth in the City Comprehensive Plan, the
development shall be exempt from concurrency review.
   (B)   The following development activities shall be deemed de minimis and
are exempt from concurrency review:
      (1)   Room additions to single-family residences;
      (2)   Construction of accessory structures;
      (3)   Construction of signs;
      (4)   Co-locations of communications towers; and
      (5)   Replacement of structures destroyed by fire, hurricanes, tornadoes
or other acts of God not exceeding the area and cubic content of the structure
prior to its destruction.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.21 ALLOCATION OF CAPACITY.
   (A)   Traffic capacity shall be allocated upon issuance of a development
order.
   (B)   The allocation of traffic capacity shall be subject to the following
sunset provisions.
      (1)   Capacity approved and assigned to a development order will remain
allocated until the development order expires, or until the development
receives a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. In the instance
the development order expires, capacity shall be lost at the expiration of the
development order, and a new certificate of traffic concurrency must be
attained once the development order has expired.
      (2)   Capacity for a planned unit development or a development of
regional impact shall remain allocated until such time as established by an
enforceable development agreement.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.22 CONCURRENCY REVIEW SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall use the procedures listed below to determine compliance
of an application for a development order with this concurrency management
system for traffic. At the time of application for a development order, a
concurrency evaluation shall be made to determine the availability of the
facilities or services required to be concurrent prior to the issuance of the
development order. An application for a development order shall provide the
city or any entity with which the city is under contract to provide concurrency
management system reviews with all information required to conduct the
concurrency evaluation. Upon receipt of the development order application, the
Planning Official shall perform the concurrency evaluation or review for each
of the public facilities and services for which level of service standards have
been determined, The review period for issuance of a certificate of traffic
concurrency shall not begin until such time as the Planning Official has deemed
the application complete.
   (B)   The following information is required for submittal to determine if
adequate traffic capacity exists concurrent with the proposed development.
      (1)   Transportation facilities. The evaluation for roads shall compare
the existing level of service standards to the adopted level of service
standards established by the Comprehensive Plan for the impacted roads,
pursuant to Rule 9J-5.0055(a), F.A.C., as amended.
         (a)   The evaluation shall address the need for new facilities and
expansions of alternative transportation modes to provide a safe and efficient
transportation network and enhance mobility.
         (b)   A transportation study shall be required if the proposed
development meets any of the following criteria (the transportation study shall
follow the requirements of division (B)(2) below).
            1.   The project or proposed development is determined to have
impacts to any facility that is currently at or within 10% of the adopted level
of service maximum volume.
            2.   The project or proposed development is projected to generate
100 or more peak-hour trips.
            3.   The project or proposed development meets any of the
thresholds listed as 100 peak-hour trips in Table 1 of the Site Impact Handbook
as produced by the Department of Transportation.
      (2)   Transportation study. A transportation study prepared by a Florida-
licensed Traffic Engineer shall be required if the proposed development is
determined to meet any of the criteria specified in Section 7 (6). The
following requirements related to required transportation studies.
         (a)   Review. The Planning Official shall apply a concurrency
evaluation to the subject property based on professionally acceptable trip
generation characteristics as found in the most current edition of Trip
Generation, published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
         (b)   Application meeting. An application meeting between the Planning
Official and the applicant is required. The purpose of this meeting will be to
review the methodology and procedure, and to determine the study area and study
period.
         (c)   Define study area. The study area is defined as the primary
impact area affected by traffic associated with the site. A study area will be
established based on the average trip length associated with the land use, as
set forth in the trip generation characteristics for that land use as approved
by the Planning Official. The primary impact area will be approved by the
Planning Official at the application meeting.
         (d)   Existing conditions. The following existing conditions shall be
provided by the applicant:
            1.   Existing peak hour traffic volumes and level of service
standards for all collectors and arterials within the study area; and
            2.   Existing turning movement at the impacted intersection(s)
level of service.
         (e)   Sources of data. The required data shall be the most recent
available. Traffic volumes shall be adjusted to reflect annual conditions using
current FDOT seasonal adjustment factors approved by the city unless the
project or proposed development is located within a tourist corridor, as
defined at the application meeting. If so, then volumes shall be adjusted to a
13-week peak season.
            1.   The required level(s) of service for roadways shall be
determined in accordance with the adopted level(s) of service given in the
Transportation Element of the Comprehensive Plan. Specifically, the
methodologies are provided in the most recent edition of the FDOT publication
titled Florida’s Level of Service Standards and Guidelines Manual for Planning.
The city shall adopt the LOS standards established by the DOT facilities on the
Florida Interstate Highway System as defined in F.S. § 334.03, and the
Strategic Intermodal System as defined in F.S. §§ 339.61 through 339.64.
            2.   The required intersection capacity(ies) shall be based on the
most recent edition of the Highway Capacity Manual Special Report 209, as
published by the Transportation Research Board.
         (f)   Projection of future roadway traffic. Traffic volume(s) shall be
projected for each development phase including the year of project completion.
Volumes can be determined using one of the following procedures:
            1.   Multiplying existing volumes by the annual growth factors
provided by or on behalf of the city. Traffic generated by any major project
approved since the traffic counts were conducted shall be used as background
traffic data;
            2.   Multiplying existing volumes by an annual growth factor
developed by the applicant and approved by the city. Traffic generated by any
major project approved since the traffic counts were conducted shall be
included as background traffic;
            3.   Using projections from an area modeling effort, when
applicable; or
            4.   Methodology regarding projections of intersection(s) turn
movements and level of service shall be established during the application
meeting.
         (g)   Projection of traffic generation. The following procedures shall
be provided.
            1.   To determine project traffic generation, the current edition
of Trip Generation as published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE)
shall be used, or trip rates may be obtained from studies of comparable sites
or standards adopted by the city.
            2.   Identify all land uses, density and intensity of development
and trip rates.
            3.   Any proposed reduction for internal capture of trips between
land uses of a mixed-use project or for passerby trips shall be provided by the
applicant at the application/ methodology meeting and shall be approved by the
city.
            4.   Accident data, when required by the city or its designee.
         (h)   Projection of traffic distribution/ assignment. Project traffic
distribution shall be based on reasonable and acceptable industry assumptions
and methodologies as applied to the individual site(s) conditions to be
approved by the city during the application/methodology meeting.
         (i)   Transportation system management strategies. A discussion of any
proposed transportation system management strategies shall be included in the
study.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.23 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATE OF TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY.
   (A)   In order to obtain a certificate of traffic concurrency, the following
conditions must be satisfied for each of the public facilities and services,
and such conditions given in the certificate of traffic concurrency.
   (B)   For each system, a certificate of traffic concurrency may be issued if
the necessary facilities and services are in place at the time a development
order or permit is issued, or the following is demonstrated. Transportation
facilities:
      (1)   The evaluation for roads shall compare the existing level of
service standards to the adopted level of service standards established by the
City Comprehensive Plan for the impacted roads pursuant to Rule 9J-5.005(a),
F.A.C., as amended; and
      (2)   The concurrency requirement may be satisfied by complying with the
following standards:
         (a)   At the time a certificate of traffic concurrency is issued, the
necessary facilities and services are in place or under construction;
         (b)   A certificate of traffic concurrency may be issued subject to
the conditions that the necessary facilities and services needed to serve the
new development are scheduled to be in place or under actual construction not
more than three years after issuance of a building permit or its functional
equivalent as provided in the adopted capital improvement program. The schedule
of capital improvements may recognize and include transportation projects
included in the first three years of the applicable adopted FDOT five-year work
program. The capital improvements element must include the requirements set out
in Rule 9J-5.005(3)(c)(2), F.A.C., as amended.
            1.   The capital improvements element and five-year schedule of
capital improvements which, in addition to meeting all of the other statutory
and rule requirements, must be financially feasible. The capital improvements
element and schedule of capital improvements may recognize and include
transportation projects included in the first three years of the applicable
adopted FDOT five-year work program.
            2.   A five-year schedule of capital improvements which must
include both necessary facilities to maintain the adopted level of service
standards to serve the new development proposed to be permitted and the
necessary facilities required to eliminate those portions of existing
deficiencies which are priority to be eliminated during the five-year period
under the City Comprehensive Plan’s schedule of capital improvements.
            3.   A financially feasible funding system based on currently
available revenue sources which must be adequate to fund the public facilities
required to serve the development authorized by the development order and
development permit and which public facilities are included in the five-year
schedule of capital improvements.
            4.   A five-year schedule of capital improvements which must
demonstrate the actual construction of the road or mass transit facilities and
the provision of services must be scheduled to comment in or before the third
year of the five-year schedule of capital improvements.
         (c)   The requirements of Rule 9J-5.005(3)(c), F.A.C., as amended, are
met.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.24 EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATE OF TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY.
   A certificate of traffic concurrency shall automatically expire
simultaneously with the expiration of the development order to which it
applies. In the event that the development order does not have a specified
expiration date, the certificate of traffic concurrency shall expire six months
after the date of issuance of the development order. In the event that a time
extension is granted prior to the expiration of the development order, then the
accompanying certificate of traffic concurrency shall be automatically renewed
for the duration of the extension given to the accompanying development order.
Should the extension exceed one year from the date of issuance of the initial
development order, a new concurrency review shall be performed.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.25 EXCEPTIONS OF TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of issuing a development order or permit, a proposed
development may be deemed to have a de minimis impact, and may not be subject
to the concurrency requirements of Rule 9J-5.0055(3)(c)(1) through (4), F.A.C.,
only if all of the conditions specified in F.S. § 163.3180(6) are met.
   (B)   Additionally, traffic concurrency requirements shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Pursuant to F.S. § 163.3180(4)(c), the concurrency requirement,
except as it relates to transportation facilities, may be waived by the city
for urban infill and redevelopment areas designated pursuant to F.S. §
163.3187. The city may grant an exception to concurrency of transportation
facilities if the requirements of F.S. § 163.3180(5)(b) are met; or
      (2)   The city will not require a development to meet transportation
concurrency if the requirements of F.S. § 163.3180(11) have been met.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.26 STRATEGIES TO RECTIFY LACK OF TRAFFIC CONCURRENCY.
   Should a development not pass the above traffic concurrency evaluation, one
or all of the strategies below may be used to rectify this:
   (A)   An enforceable development agreement between the city and the
developer, which may include, but is not limited to, development agreements
pursuant to F.S. § 163.3220;
   (B)   A reduction in the scale or impact of the proposed development;
   (C)   Phasing of the proposed development; and/or
   (D)   Proportionate share contributions pursuant to §§
30.45 through
30.54.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.27 MONITORING.
   (A)   Annual report. The traffic concurrency management report is required
as a system for monitoring and ensuring adherence to the adopted level of
service standards, the schedule of capital improvements, and the availability
of public transportation facilities.
   (B)   Contents. The city shall prepare an annual report as part of the
Traffic Concurrency Management System that includes:
      (1)   A summary of actual development activity, including quantity of
development represented by type and square footage;
      (2)   A summary of building permit activity, indicating:
         (a)   Those that expired without commencing construction;
         (b)   Those that are active at the time of report;
         (c)   The quantity of development represented by the outstanding
building permits;
         (d)   Those that result from the development permits issued prior to
the adoption of this subchapter; and
         (e)   Those that result from development permits issued pursuant to
the requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   A summary of development orders issued, indicating:
         (a)   Those that expired without subsequent development permits;
         (b)   Those that are valid at the time of the report; and
         (c)   The phases and quantity of development represented by the
outstanding development permits.
      (4)   An evaluation of each facility and service indicating the following
(this is not an all inclusive list, but shall be deemed as a guideline for use
in the traffic concurrency management system):
         (a)   Existing and adopted levels of service for each facility;
         (b)   The traffic capacity available for each facility at the
beginning of the reporting period and the end of the reporting period;
         (c)   The portion of the available capacity held for approved
development orders;
         (d)   A comparison of the actual traffic capacity to calculated
capacity resulting from approved development orders and development permits
over the previous year;
         (e)   A comparison of actual traffic capacity and level of service to
adopted levels of service from the City Comprehensive Plan;
         (f)   A forecast of the traffic capacity for each based upon the most
recently updated schedule of capital improvements in the Capital Improvements
Element of the Comprehensive Plan; and
         (g)   Projects funded within the Capital Improvements Plan to expand
any deficient facilities, or transportation project funded through the
Transportation Planning Organization.
   (C)   Use; purpose. The Concurrency Management Report shall be due to the
City Council by December 1 of each year, reporting on the previous fiscal
year’s activity. It shall be used in part for the purpose of determining level
of service capacities during the 12 months following the presentation and/or
adoption of, the annual report to the City Council.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.28 ASSURANCES.
   (A)   The city shall make available suitable land for the building and
expansion of service facilities, and shall require the future land uses to be
assured of adequate infrastructure and services.
   (B)   The city shall conduct an ongoing review and analysis of the
infrastructure and services to meet the needs of future land uses adopted in
the City Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Development shall be required to provide such lands by dedication
where appropriate.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.29 APPEALS.
   Appeals related to determinations of traffic concurrency shall be as stated
in the land development regulations, as may be amended or superseded.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.30 CONFLICT.
   All city ordinances, resolutions and charter provisions or parts thereof,
including, but not limited to, land development regulations relating to traffic
in conflict with this subchapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 532, passed 1-9-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Capital Improvements, see
Ch. 36
PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE PROGRAM
§ 30.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to describe the method whereby the impacts
of development on transportation facilities can be mitigated by the cooperative
efforts of the public and private sectors, to be known as the Proportionate
Fair-Share Program, as required by and in a manner consistent with F.S. §
163.3180.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.46 APPLICABILITY.
   The Proportionate Fair-Share Program shall apply to all applicants for
developments in the city that have been notified of a lack of capacity to
satisfy transportation concurrency on a transportation facility governed by the
City Concurrency Management System as set out in §§
30.15 through
30.30, as may be amended or superseded (“Concurrency Management Ordinance”),
including transportation facilities maintained by FDOT or another jurisdiction
that are relied upon for concurrency determinations.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.47 EXCLUSIONS.
   The Proportionate Fair-Share Program does not apply to a multi-use
development of regional impact (DRI) using proportionate fair share under F.S.
§ 163.3180(12), or to developments exempted from concurrency as provided in the
Comprehensive Plan, in Section 2006 of these regulations, and/or pursuant to
the provisions of F.S. § 163.3180, governing de minimis impacts. Also excluded
are transportation improvements required for public safety, onsite roadway
improvements or off-site improvements otherwise required by these regulations
for non-deficient roadway segments.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.48 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE MITIGATION.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Concurrency Management
Ordinance, an applicant for development may choose to satisfy all
transportation concurrency requirements by contributing or paying proportionate
fair-share mitigation only under the under the following conditions.
   (A)   The proposed development is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
this subchapter and applicable land development regulations.
   (B)   The City Five-Year Capital Improvement Program (CIP) includes
transportation improvements that, upon completion, will fully mitigate for the
additional traffic generated by the proposed development.
   (C)   If the City Concurrency Management System indicates that the capacity
of the transportation improvement set forth in the CIP has already been
consumed by the allocated trips of previously approved development, or the CIP
does not reflect the transportation improvement needed to satisfy concurrency,
then the provisions of division (D) below shall apply.
   (D)   The city may choose to allow an applicant to satisfy transportation
concurrency through the Proportionate Fair-Share Program by contributing to an
improvement that, upon completion, will fully mitigate for the additional
traffic generated by the proposed development but is not contained in CIP as
follows.
      (1)   The City Council votes to add the improvement to the CIP no later
than the next regularly scheduled update of the CIP. To qualify for
consideration under this section, the proposed improvement must be determined
to be financially feasible pursuant to F.S. § 163.3180(16)(b), consistent with
the Comprehensive Plan, and in compliance with the provisions of this section.
The term FINANCIAL FEASIBILITY under this subchapter mean that additional
contributions, payments or funding sources are reasonably anticipated during a
period not to exceed ten years to fully mitigate for the impacts of the
proposed development on transportation facilities.
      (2)   If the funds allocated for the CIP are insufficient to fully fund
construction of a transportation improvement required by the concurrency
management system, the city may enter into a Binding Proportionate Fair-Share
Agreement with the applicant and as a condition of development approval
authorize construction of that amount of development on which the proportionate
fair share is calculated if the proposed proportionate fair-share mitigation
will in the opinion of the city, or governmental entity maintaining the
transportation facility, significantly benefit the impacted transportation
system. Criteria governing this opinion include whether the proposed
transportation improvements that would constitute proportionate fair-share
mitigation are contained in an adopted short- or long-range transportation plan
or program of the city, TPO, FDOT or local or regional transit agency. Proposed
improvements not reflected in an adopted transportation plan or program that
would significantly reduce access problems and congestion, trips or increase
mobility in the impacted transportation system, such as new roads, additional
right-of-way, service roads, operational improvements, improved network
development, increased connectivity, roadway drainage or transit oriented
solutions, may also be considered at the discretion of the city. Any
improvement or improvements funded by proportionate fair-share mitigation must
be adopted into the CIP at the next regularly scheduled update of the CIP.
   (E)   Any improvement project proposed to meet the developer’s fair-share
obligation must meet design standards of the city for locally maintained
roadways and those of the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) for the
state highway system.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.49 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COORDINATION.
   Pursuant to policies in the Intergovernmental Coordination Element of the
City Comprehensive Plan and applicable policies in the Transportation Planning
Organization’s Programs (such as the Unified Work Program, Transportation
Improvement Program, Project Priorities, 2030 Long Range Transportation Plan
and the like) as amended, the city shall coordinate with affected
jurisdictions, including FDOT, regarding mitigation to impacted facilities not
under the jurisdiction of the local government receiving the application for
proportionate fair-share mitigation, An interlocal agreement may be established
with other affected jurisdictions for this purpose.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.50 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   The Proportionate Fair-Share Program shall be governed by the following
procedures.
   (A)   Within ten days of a determination of a lack of capacity to satisfy
transportation concurrency, the applicant for development shall be notified in
writing of the Proportionate Fair-Share Program and this subchapter.
   (B)   Prior to submitting an application for proportionate fair-share
mitigation, a pre-application meeting shall be held to discuss eligibility,
application submittal requirements, potential mitigation options and related
issues.
   (C)   Eligible applicants shall submit an application to the city that
includes an application fee of $600, and the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of owner(s), developer and agent;
      (2)   Property location, including parcel identification numbers;
      (3)   Legal description and survey of property;
      (4)   Project description, including type, intensity and amount of
development;
      (5)   Phasing schedule, if applicable;
      (6)   Description of requested proportionate fair-share mitigation method
(s);
      (7)   Estimated value of the proposed fair-share mitigation pursuant to
this subchapter; and
      (8)   Copy of concurrency application.
   (D)   The Planning Official shall review the application and determine that
the application is sufficient and complete within ten business days. If an
application is determined to be insufficient, incomplete or inconsistent with
the general requirements of the Proportionate Fair-Share program and this
subchapter, then the applicant will be notified in writing of the reasons for
such deficiencies within 20 business days of submittal of the application. If
such deficiencies are not remedied by the applicant within 60 business days of
notification, the Planning Official shall deny the application. The Planning
Official may grant an extension of time if requested in writing from the
applicant not to exceed 60 business days to cure such deficiencies, provided
that the applicant has shown good cause for the extension and has taken
reasonable steps to affect a cure.
   (E)   To the extend required by Florida law, proposed proportionate fair-
share mitigation for development impacts to facilities on the Strategic
Intermodal System requires the concurrence of the Florida Department of
Transportation (FDOT). In such event, the applicant shall submit evidence that
FDOT concurs with the proposed proportionate fair-share mitigation.
   (F)   Within 60 business days from the date at which the application is
deemed sufficient, complete and eligible, the Planning Official shall evaluate
the application pursuant to this subchapter, and thereafter shall notify the
applicant in writing whether the proposed proportionate fair-share mitigation
application and certificate of concurrency has been approved, approved with
conditions or denied. A copy of the notice shall be provided to the FDOT for
any proposed proportionate fair-share mitigation proposed on any FDOT facility.
   (G)   Appeals of decisions of the Planning Official pursuant to this
subchapter shall be as stated in Section 209 of these regulations and noticed
as provided in Section 1803.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.51 METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINING PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE MITIGATION.
   The following shall describe the methodology to determine proportionate
fair-share mitigation.
   (A)   Proportionate fair-share mitigation for concurrency impacts may
include, without limitation, separately or collectively, private funds,
contributions of land, and construction and contribution of facilities, and may
include public funds if the use of public funds are authorized by the City
Council.
   (B)   A development shall not be required to pay more than its proportionate
fair share. The fair market value of the proportionate fair-share mitigation
for the impacted facilities shall not differ among the forms of proportionate
share mitigation.
   (C)   The methodology to be used by the Planning Official to calculate an
applicant’s proportionate fair-share mitigation shall be as provided for in
F.S. § 163.3180(12), as follows:
      “The cumulative number of trips from the proposed development expected to
reach roadways during peak hours from the complete build-out of a stage or
phase being approved, divided by the change in the peak hour maximum service
volume (MSV) of roadways resulting from construction of an improvement
necessary to maintain the adopted level of service, multiplied by the
construction cost, at the time of developer payment, of the improvement
necessary to maintain the adopted level of service.”
or
      Proportionate Fair Share = [[(Development Tripsi) /(SV Increasei)] x
Costi]
      Where:
      Development Tripsi = Those trips from the stage or phase of development
under review that are assigned to roadway segment “i” and have triggered a
deficiency per the concurrency management system or have further degraded the
LOS of an already deficient roadway segment;
      SV Increasei = Service volume increase provided by the eligible
improvement to roadway segment “i” per §
30.48;
      Costi =Adjusted cost of the improvement to segment “i”. Cost shall
include all improvements and associated costs, such as design, right-of-way
acquisition, planning, engineering, inspection and physical development costs
directly associated with construction at the anticipated cost in the year it
will be incurred.
   (D)   The term “cumulative” used above includes only those trips from the
stage or phase of a development being considered in the application., The trips
expected to reach the failing roadway for this calculation are those identified
in the development’s traffic impact analysis. All assumptions used in the
proportionate fair-share calculation should be consistent with those used by
city in its Concurrency Management System.
   (E)   In the context of the formula for the proportionate fair-share
calculation “development trips” apply only to those trips that trigger a
concurrency deficiency or are adding trips to an existing deficient roadway
segment.
   (F)   For the purposes of determining proportionate fair-share mitigation,
the city shall determine improvement costs based upon the actual cost of the
improvement as obtained from the Capital Improvements Element, the CIP, the TPO
Transportation Improvement Program, or the FDOT Work Program. Where such
information is not available, improvement cost shall be determined using one of
the following methods:
      (1)   An analysis by the city of costs by cross section type that
incorporates data from recent projects and is updated annually. In order to
accommodate increases in construction material costs, project costs shall be
adjusted by the inflation factor established by the United States Department of
Commerce; or
      (2)   The most recent issue of FDOT Transportation Costs, as adjusted
based upon the type of cross section (urban or rural); locally available data
from recent projects on acquisition, drainage and utility costs; and
significant changes in the cost of materials due to unforeseeable events. Cost
estimates for state road improvements not included in the adopted FDOT Work
Program shall be determined using this method in coordination with the FDOT
District.
   (G)   If a proposed form of proportionate fair-share mitigation is other
than financial then the value of the proportionate fair share mitigation
improvement shall be determined using one of the methods provided in this
section.
   (H)   If the fair market value of an alternative form of fair-share
mitigation is less than the total proportionate fair-share obligation as
determined above, the applicant must pay the difference. The city is authorized
to accept forms of proportionate fair share mitigation that exceed the actual
values calculated above. Under no circumstances shall the city approve an
application that obligates the city to compensate an applicant for
proportionate fair-share mitigation that exceeds the value calculated above.
   (I)   If the land or right-of-way dedication is proposed as a form of
proportionate fair-share mitigation, the value of the land or right-of-way
shall be the fair market value established by an independent appraisal approved
by the city at the time of the application and at no expense to the city. The
applicant shall supply a survey and legal description of the land or right of
way and a certificate of title or title search of the land to the city at no
expense to the city with the application, and shall at closing deliver clear
title by warranty deed to the city.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.52 CERTIFICATE OF CONCURRENCY FOR PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE MITIGATION.
   Upon approval of an application for proportionate share mitigation, the
following requirements shall apply.
   (A)   Upon approval of an application for proportionate fair-share
mitigation, the city shall issue to the applicant a certificate of concurrency
governing concurrency for transpiration facilities, which shall explicitly set
forth the proportionate fair-share mitigation required by this subchapter.
Conditions of development order approval or a fully executed Binding
Proportionate Fair-Share Agreement may also accompany the approval.
   (B)   Should the applicant fail to apply for a building permit within 12
months of the date of the certificate of concurrency, then the certificate of
concurrency and the approval of the application for proportionate share
mitigation shall be considered null and void, and the applicant shall be
required to reapply. The Planning Official may grant an extension of up to an
additional 12 months if requested in writing from the applicant showing good
cause for the extension.
   (C)   Payment of the proportionate fair-share mitigation funds are due in
full prior to issuance of the final development order or recording of the final
plat and shall be nonrefundable, if the payment is submitted more than 12
months from the date of the issuance of the certificate of concurrency, then
the proportionate fair-share mitigation shall be recalculated at the time of
payment based on the best estimate of the construction cost of the required
improvement at the time of payment, pursuant to §
30.51, and adjusted accordingly.
   (D)   If an applicant enters into a binding agreement or receives a
development order which requires road improvements as a condition of
development approval, such improvements must be completed prior to issuance of
a certificate of acceptance or a final plat approval. A presentment bond
payable to the city sufficient to ensure the completion of improvements shall
be obtained.
   (E)   Dedication of land or right-of-way for facility improvements to the
city as proportionate fair-share mitigation must be completed prior to issuance
of the certificate of acceptance or recording of the final plat.
   (F)   Any requested change to a development project subsequent to a
development order may be subject to additional proportionate fair-share
mitigation to the extent the change would generate additional traffic that
would require mitigation. In such event, the applicant for development must
submit an application pursuant to this subchapter.
   (G)   Applicants may submit a letter to withdraw from the Proportionate
Fair-Share Program at any time prior to the issuance of the certificate of
concurrency. The application fee and any associated advertising costs to the
city will be nonrefundable.
   (H)   The city may consider joint applications for proportionate fair-share
mitigation to facilitate collaboration among multiple applicants on
improvements to a shared transportation facility, and may coordinate with other
jurisdictions on Proportionate Fair-Share Mitigation through interlocal
agreements.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.53 APPROPRIATION OF FAIR-SHARE REVENUES.
   At the time the proportionate fair-share mitigation funds are received
pursuant to this subchapter, the proportionate fair-share mitigation funds
shall be deposited as follows.
   (A)   Proportionate fair-share mitigation funds shall be placed in the
appropriate project account for funding of scheduled improvements in the CIP,
or as otherwise established in the terms of the certificate of concurrency, or
condition on development approval. At the discretion of the city, proportionate
fair-share revenues may be used for operational improvements prior to
construction of a project from which the proportionate fair-share funds were
derived. Proportionate fair-share mitigation funds may also applied to the 50%
local match for funding under the FDOT Transportation Regional Incentive
Program (TRIP).
   (B)   In the event a scheduled facility improvement is removed from the CIP,
then the revenues collected for its construction may be applied toward the
construction of another improvement within that same corridor or sector that in
the decision of the city would mitigate the impacts of development.
   (C)   Where an impacted regional facility has been designated as a
regionally significant transportation facility in an adopted regional
transportation plan as provided in F.S. § 339.155, then the city may coordinate
with other impacted jurisdictions and agencies to apply proportionate fair-
share mitigation and public contributions and seek funding for improving the
impacted regional facility under the FDOT Transportation Regional Incentive
Program (TRIP). Such coordination shall be ratified by the city through an
interlocal agreement that establishes a procedure for earmarking of the
developer contributions for this purpose.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
§ 30.54 IMPACT FEE CREDIT FOR PROPORTIONATE FAIR-SHARE MITIGATION.
   The following requirements shall apply regarding impact fee credits and
proportionate share mitigation.
   (A)   Proportionate fair-share mitigation shall be applied as a credit
against impact fees only when a transportation facility has a segment for which
the local government transportation impact fee is being applied. Credits will
be given for that portion of the applicant’s transportation impact fees that
would have been used to fund the improvements on which the proportionate fair-
share mitigation is calculated. If the proportionate fair-share mitigation is
based on only a portion of the development’s traffic, the credit will be
limited to that portion of the impact fees on which the proportionate fair-
share mitigation is based.
   (B)   Impact fee credits for the proportionate fair-share mitigation will be
determined when the transportation impact fee is calculated for the proposed
development. If the applicant’s proportionate fair-share mitigation is less
than the development’s anticipated road impact fee for the specific stage or
phase of development under review, then the applicant or its successor must pay
the remaining impact fee amount to the city pursuant to the requirements of the
city impact fee ordinance.
   (C)   The proportionate fair-share mitigation is intended to mitigate the
transportation impacts of a proposed development at a specific location. As a
result, any road impact fee credit based upon proportionate fair-share
mitigation for a proposed development cannot be transferred to any other
location.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-9-2007)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Officials; General Provisions
   
31.01   Compliance Inspector
   
31.02   City Clerk
Elections
   
31.15   When city elections are held
   
31.16   Qualifications; fee; oath
   
31.17   Candidates with majority vote elected
   
31.18   Qualifications of electors
   
31.19   Registration
   
31.20   Clerks, inspectors, deputy; appointment and compensation
   
31.21   Notice of elections
   
31.22   Absentee electors
   
31.23   Opening and closing of polls; posting of results
   
31.24   Compliance with principal adopted for state elections
   
31.25   Term of office
City Administrator
   
31.40   Establishment
   
31.41   Compensation
   
31.42   Qualifications
   
31.43   Powers and duties
   
31.44   Supervision and control; police, fire and Emergency Services Unit
Charter reference:
   City Council and the Mayor, see City Charter,
Article II
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see
Chapter 32
   Personnel policies, see
Chapter 35
   Policies and procedures, see
Chapter 30
CITY OFFICIALS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COMPLIANCE INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby established the position of Compliance Inspector responsible
to the City Administrator for ensuring compliance with the provisions contained
in
Chapter 153, the City Comprehensive Plan, and
Chapter 110, Licensing.
(1998 Code, § 31.15) (Ord. 245, passed 8-13-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement by code inspectors, see F.S. § 166.0415
§ 31.02 CITY CLERK.
   The job description for the City Clerk be as follows.
   (A)   Department. Administration.
   (B)   General description. Responsible for records administration and
maintaining all municipal records; providing human resource, risk management
and contract management support, and other duties as assigned. May be tasked
with accounting administration.
   (C)   Essential job functions.
      (1)   Responsible for maintaining all official city documents and
records;
      (2)   Attends Council and other meetings and supervises the preparation
and indexing of Council minutes. Coordinates agendas, documents and provision
of liaison including scheduling of meetings and public notices;
      (3)   Prepares and conducts municipal election administration and
activities;
      (4)   Attends bid opening and assures contracting rules and regulations
are followed;
      (5)   Maintains all personnel records and assures that personnel action
as complete and accurate;
      (6)   Performs administrative support and other duties as required;
      (7)   Meets with citizens to provide information and resolve complaints;
      (8)   Responsible for bank reconciliation of all funds and all accounts;
      (9)   Responsible for financial oversight and reporting for all grants
received by the city;
      (10)   Responsible for creation of all ordinances and resolutions
pertinent to the position; responsible for attesting all ordinances,
resolutions and other legal documents of the city;
      (11)   Maintains and/or coordinates maintenance, repairs, updates to all
information technology systems;
      (12)   May be tasked with the following financial functions by the City
Council:
         (a)   Overall responsibility for preparing and monitoring the city
budget, including:
            1.   Performing accounting function for the general fund and
conducting general financial function and administration;
            2.   Compiling fiscal estimates and fiscal projects;
            3.   Maintaining accounts payable and receivable plus the general
and subsidiary ledgers;
            4.   Preparing all financial statements;
            5.   Overall, acting in the capacity of the City Treasurer;
            6.   Reviewing financial policies and makes recommendations to the
City Council;
            7.   Acting as liaison for external auditors;
            8.   Preparing monthly financial statement to present to City
Council and City Administrator.
         (b)   Ensuring the city is in compliance with all state and GAAP
rules, regulations and laws as well as any other legal or accounting
requirements.
      (13)   All duties required by the City Charter and all other duties,
tasks and responsibilities as assigned by the City Council.
   (D)   Qualifications; knowledge, skills and abilities. Knowledge of the
ordinances, policies, resolutions and procedures of the city; knowledge of
modem management practices and principles; knowledge of archives and records
management laws, systems and technology; knowledge of election laws; ability to
input and retrieve data via computer; ability to access needs and prioritize
and the ability to communicate effectively in writing and orally, laws and
administrative policies governing municipal activities and of operations of
municipal government; ability to delegate authority and responsibility to
subordinate department heads and to maintain an effective organization; ability
to express oneself clearly in writing and orally and appear before groups of
taxpayers and the Council to present data and program which enhance the
efficient operations of the city. Knowledge of governmental accounting
principles and practices is preferred but not required.
   (E)   Education and experience. A four-year college degree is preferred, but
a minimum of two years’ post high school education is acceptable. Two years’
experience in progressively responsible related work preferably with a
government agency. (Experience can be substituted for education requirements.
Experience qualification can be waived or altered provided incumbent has
clearly demonstrated experience of a nature that demonstrates capability to
quickly perform at a high level.)
   (F)   Licenses, certificates and registrations. CMC and AAE designation
desirable (through International Institute of Municipal Clerks). Must be
bondable.
   (G)   Essential physical skills.
      (1)   Acceptable eyesight and hearing (with or without glasses or hearing
aids);
      (2)   Reasonable accommodations will be made in accordance with existing
ADA requirements for otherwise qualified individuals with a disability; and
      (3)   Ability to access input and retrieve information from a computer.
   (H)   Environmental conditions. Works inside an office environment but must
be able to also work outside.
(Ord. 610, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 745, passed 4-14-2020)
ELECTIONS
§ 31.15 WHEN CITY ELECTIONS ARE HELD.
   Pursuant to the results of the November 4, 2003 referendum, the City Council
is hereby authorized to amend the city charter and code by ordinance, and does
hereby amend the charter and code to change the schedule of its general
elections to the third Tuesday in April following the Third Monday of each
election year starting in April of 2005.
(1998 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 468, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 31.16 QUALIFICATIONS; FEE; OATH.
   (A)   Candidates for the offices of Council member and Mayor-Council member
shall be qualified electors, citizens of the United States and shall have
resided within the corporate limits of the city at least one year prior to the
date of their qualifying for office.
   (B)   Any qualified elector of the city who meets the foregoing
qualifications may qualify for election to a Council seat by designating the
group number (City Charter, §
2.03) for which he or she desires to run, by paying a qualification fee of $25,
and by taking and subscribing to an oath which shall be substantially in the
following form:
      “State of Florida
      County of Bay
         Before me, an officer authorized to administer oaths, personally
appeared _____________, to me well known, who, being sworn, says that he/she is
a candidate for the office of __________________; that he or she is a qualified
elector of Bay County, Florida; that he or she is qualified under the
Constitution and the laws of Florida to hold the office to which he or she
desires to be nominated or elected; that he or she has qualified for no other
public office in the State, the term of which office or any part thereof runs
concurrent with that of the office he or she seeks; and that he or she has
resigned from any office from which he or she is required to resign pursuant to
F.S. § 99.012.
      ____________________________________
      (Signature of Candidate)
      Sworn to and subscribed before me this _________ day of ____________ at
Mexico Beach, Florida.
      ____________________________________
      (Signature/Title of Officer)”
   (C)   Such fee and oath shall be filed with the City Clerk not less than 30
days nor more than 45 days prior to the date of such election. Waiver of filing
fees may be as prescribed by the City Charter, §
2.02(A).
(1998 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.17 CANDIDATES WITH MAJORITY VOTE ELECTED.
   The names of all candidates qualified in accordance with the provisions of §
33.02 shall be placed upon the ballot in alphabetical order under each Council
member’s group and the candidate receiving the highest number of votes cast in
the Mayor-Council member race shall be elected, and the candidate receiving the
highest number of votes cast in the respective group shall be declared elected;
provided, however, in the event that two or more candidates shall have received
an equal number of votes for any office, and the tied vote shall be among the
candidates receiving the highest number of votes, the tie shall be resolved by
a toss of a coin. The Council members shall be elected at large by the
qualified voters of the city.
(1998 Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.18 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Any person shall be allowed to vote at such regular city electrons who is a
qualified voter under the laws of the state, and who is duly registered in the
registration book for qualified electors of the city.
(1998 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.19 REGISTRATION.
   The county elections office shall provide registration forms for all persons
applying for registration whose names are not already upon the registration
books and who are qualified electors under this chapter and the laws of the
state. The registration books for the city will be closed for registration 29
days prior to the holding of a regular city election.
(1998 Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.20 CLERKS, INSPECTORS, DEPUTY; APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The City Clerk shall make all necessary arrangements for holding regular
city elections. Two inspectors, one clerk of election and one deputy shall be
appointed by the City Clerk. During the hours in which the polls are open, only
the previously referenced election workers will be allowed to remain at all
times. Compensation to be paid to said inspectors, clerk and deputy will be the
same as other county election workers performing the same duties. These
election workers to be paid from the General Fund of the city.
(1998 Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.21 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   The City Council shall announce any regular or special election. The method
of announcing the election shall be by posting the notice in three public
places in the city, two of which shall be the City Hall and post office, said
notice to be posted not less than four weeks prior to the election.
(1998 Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.22 ABSENTEE ELECTORS.
   Absentee electors may request and be furnished absentee ballots as provided
by F.S. Ch. 101. All absentee ballots shall be returned to the City Clerk not
later than 7:00 p.m. (Central Standard Time) on the day of the election;
absentee ballots will be given to the clerk of the election and be counted
(canvassed) as other ballots.
(1998 Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.23 OPENING AND CLOSING OF POLLS; POSTING OF RESULTS.
   The polls at all regular city elections shall open at 7:00 a.m. and close at
7:00 p.m. (Central Standard Time). The results of the voting shall be certified
by the Clerk and inspectors of the election; results will be posted in a public
place at the City Hall and will be announced at the next regular Council
meeting.
(1998 Code, § 33.09) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.24 COMPLIANCE WITH PRINCIPAL ADOPTED FOR STATE ELECTIONS.
   All regular elections of the city shall be held and conducted substantially
on the principal adopted for state elections, insofar as there is no conflict
with the terms of this subchapter or the provisions of the election laws of the
state.
(1998 Code, § 33.10) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995)
§ 31.25 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the results of the November 4, 2003 referendum, the terms
of the elected officials presently serving in groups 1 through 5 shall be
temporarily extended approximately six months so as to conform to the new
election schedule.
      (1)   Specifically, group 1, 2, and 3 terms will not expire in December
2004 but will continue until expiration on the first Monday in June of 2005
following the April 2005 general election. Thereafter the terms in groups 1, 2,
and 3 shall be for two years.
      (2)   The group 4 and 5 terms, as newly elected in November 2003, will
not expire in December of 2005 but will continue until expiration on the first
Monday in June 2006 following the April 2006 general election. Thereafter, the
terms of groups 4 and 5 shall be for two years.
      (3)    Thereafter, all terms in groups 1 through 5 shall be for two years
and the terms shall begin on the date of the first regularly scheduled City
Council meeting following the general or special election by the city.
   (B)   Pursuant to the results of the November 4, 2003 referendum, any
required run-off election shall be held no later than the Tuesday immediately
following the third Monday in May following the general election and no earlier
than 14 days following the general election.
(1998 Code, § 33.11) (Ord. 305, passed 6-13-1995; Ord. 468, passed 4-13-2004;
Ord. 746, passed 5-5-2020)
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The office of City Administrator is hereby established. The City
Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council.
(Ord. 486, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 31.41 COMPENSATION.
   The City Administrator shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed and
adjusted (when found necessary), by the City Council.
(Ord. 486, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 31.42 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall possess the educational, managerial and
other required skills as indicated in the city’s personnel policies.
   (B)   It is preferred that the City Administrator reside within the
corporate limits of the city; however, the City Administrator may reside
outside the corporate limits of the city, providing that:
      (1)   The Administrator can respond to city needs within one hour; and
      (2)   Written approval to reside outside the corporate limits of the city
is given by City Council.
(Ord. 486, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 31.43 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator, subject to control of the City Council, shall have
charge of all general administration, including ESU, Police and Fire
Departments, except for the City Clerk, unless otherwise provided by the City
Charter or City Council direction. The City Administrator’s responsibilities
are subject to change at the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 486, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 596, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 31.44 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL; POLICE, FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES UNIT.
   The City Administrator will have direct supervision and control of police,
fire and the Emergency Services Unit. The Chief of Police, Fire Chief and
Emergency Services Unit (ESU) Coordinator shall supervise and have direct
control of all employees, reserves, on-call personnel and volunteers in their
respective divisions to assure the proper functioning and carrying out of the
purpose(s) of the three divisions, as well as other duties assigned to the
division heads by ordinance, resolution or at the direction of the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 499, passed 9-13-2005; Ord. 597, passed 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 32: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 33: FEES
Section
   
33.01   Fees for copies
   
33.02   City maps
   
33.03   Dishonored checks
   
33.04   Sheriff’s Department’s use of city fuel
   
33.05   Leasing of city-owned property
   
33.06   Mooring fees
   
33.07   Fees for development orders and planning approvals
   
33.08   Building Department documentation
   
33.09   Scrap sales
   
33.10   Court costs for law enforcement educational expenditures
   
33.11   Impounded vehicles
   
33.12   Boat trailer parking and boat ramp fees
   
33.13   Use of city marina
   
33.14   Civic Center rental fee
§ 33.01 FEES FOR COPIES.
   As provided for by state statutes, a fee of $0.15 will be paid to the City
Clerk for each one-sided copy and an additional $0.05 for each two-sided
duplicated copy. If a request for certified copies is received, an additional
charge of $1 per copy of a public record will be charged.
(1998 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.02 CITY MAPS.
   As provided by state statutes, a reasonable charge will be paid to the City
Clerk for each city map requested. This charge per copy will be based upon
production charges rounded off to the next higher dollar amount.
(1998 Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.03 DISHONORED CHECKS.
   As provided for by state statutes, a service fee of $20 or 5% of the face
amount of a dishonored check, draft or order, whichever is greater, will be
paid to the appropriate city department.
(1998 Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.04 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT’S USE OF CITY FUEL.
   A provision is hereby established allowing the County Sheriff’s Department
to utilize city fuel supplies on a monthly dollar reimbursement system payable
to the city. This reimbursement will be based upon actual cost of the fuel
product as paid by the city.
(1998 Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.05 LEASING OF CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   A provision is hereby established allowing for the leasing of city-owned
property to certain companies and/or individuals.
(1998 Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.06 MOORING FEES.
   A provision is hereby established allowing for the collection of mooring
fees at the city-owned Canal Park. The amount of such mooring fees, their
applicability, and associated details may be set by a resolution of the City
Council and may be amended, from time to time, by resolution. These fees are to
be placed in the canal reserve account and dedicated for park maintenance.
(1998 Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995; Ord. 445, passed 8-12-2003;
Ord. 763, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 33.07 FEES FOR DEVELOPMENT ORDERS AND PLANNING APPROVALS.
   (A)   A provision is hereby established allowing for the collection of fees
associated with the city development orders and other requests.
   (B)   These fees are non-refundable and are payable to the City Clerk upon
application for a development order or other requests.
   (C)   Pre-application conference or any other meeting requiring attendance
of planning, engineering, or other city consultants.
      (1)   One hour pre-application review meeting: $250.
      (2)   Additional pre-application discussion - Per each ½ hour: $125.
   (D)   Review of development activity:
      (1)   Major residential development order - Fee payable to third party
building services contractor: $200 (per unit)*;
      (2)   Minor residential development order (e.g. accessory structures), as
applicable - Fee payable to third party building services contractor: $75*;
      (3)   Basic development order (permits for activities which do not
require elected or appointed body approval, as listed in the section number
referenced), as applicable - Fee payable to third party building services
contractor: $75*;
      (4)   Minor commercial development order (includes commercial signage, as
applicable) - Fee payable to third party building services contractor: $75*;
      (5)   Major commercial development order (requires public hearing), as
applicable - Fees payable to the city for consultants review:
         (a)   Planning review (plus cost of any notice, e.g. mailing/signage/
newspaper advertisement requirement): $1,100.
         (b)   Engineering review: $750.
         (c)   Floodplain manager review:
            1.   For a structure 50,000 - 100,000 square feet an additional
$850 is applied.
            2.   For a structure greater than 100,000 square feet an additional
$1,100 is applied.
            3.   No additional fee for floodplain manager review for structures
greater than 50,000 square feet.
      * Additional fees may apply as needed on an hourly basis:
         Planning review: $125
         Floodplain review: $160
         Engineering review: $250
   (E)   Subdivision plat.
      (1)   Preliminary plat approval - Fees payable to the city for
consultant’s review:
         (a)   1.   Planning review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            2.   Engineering review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            3.   Floodplain manager review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            4.   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
         (b)   1.   Planning review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            2.   Engineering review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            3.   Floodplain manager review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            4.   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
      (2)   Final plat approval - Fees payable to the city for consultant’s
review:
         (a)   1.   Planning review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            2.   Engineering review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            3.   Floodplain manager review up to 20 lots: $1,500.
            4.   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
         (b)   1.   Planning review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            2.   Engineering review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            3.   Floodplain manager review 20 lots and greater: $2,500.
            4.   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
      (3)   Revision/replat of an existing plat - Fees payable to the city for
consultant’s review:
         (a)   Planning review: $500.
         (b)   Engineering review: $500.
         (c)   Floodplain manager review: $500.
         (d)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (F)   Certificate of concurrency application:
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $150.
   (G)   Sign permit (other than that which is paid under Land Development Code
Section 7.02.02.A.1.3) - Fee payable to the city for internal review.
      (1)   Temporary sign: $50 each.
      (2)   Permanent accessory signs: $200 each.
      (3)   Permanent outdoor advertising sign: $200 each.
   (H)   Planned unit developments.
      (1)   Planned unit development pre-application conference.
         (a)   Fees payable to the city for consultant’s review: $250.
      (2)   Planned unit development (PUD) plan approval.
         (a)   Fees payable to the city for consultant’s review:
            1.   Less than 20 acres or less than 50 residential units: $3,500.
            2.   Twenty acres or greater or 50 residential units or greater:
$5,000.
         (b)   Planned unit development plan - resubmission/changes made due to
changes required prior to approval (2nd and greater review).
            1.   Fees payable to the city for consultant’s review:
               a.   Each additional review: $750.
               b.    Changes to an approved planned unit development other than
minor: $950.
   (I)   Petition for annexation - Fee payable to the city for internal review:
      (1)   Application for inclusion of a parcel into the corporate limits:
$160.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (J)   Comprehensive plan amendment application.
      (1)   Large-scale amendment (any text amendment to the plan or any future
land use map amendment greater than 50 acres).
         (a)   Fees payable to the city to cover associated costs for
consultants review: $3,500.
         (b)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
      (2)   Small-scale amendment (any future land use map amendment that
involves 50 acres or fewer, or any text amendment that is directly related to
the request of the map amendment and is processed simultaneously).
         (a)   Fees payable to the city for consultant’s review: $1,700.
         (b)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
         (c)   If a rezoning request is made with the comprehensive plan future
land use map amendment, an additional charge of $500, payable to the city, is
required if both requests are processed simultaneously.
   (K)   Rezoning application not associated with a future land use map
amendment - Fees payable to the city for consultant’s review:
      (1)   Fifty acres or greater: $2,250. Plus cost of any notice (e.g.
mailing/signage/newspaper advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
      (2)   Less than 50 acres: $1,250. Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/
signage/newspaper advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (L)   Variance request.
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $300.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (M)   Administrative Hearing/Planning and Zoning Board and City Council.
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $300.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (N)   Telecommunications tower permit.
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $1,200.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (O)   Vacation of rights-of-way.
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $750.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (P)   Lot split.
      (1)   Fee payable to the city for internal review: $300.
      (2)   Plus cost of any notice (e.g. mailing/signage/newspaper
advertisement requirement) shall also apply.
   (Q)   Continuation or delay of any application by request of the applicant
which has been scheduled for public hearing after notices and advertisement has
been placed/sent are responsible for additional cost of notice.
   (R)   Floodplain review is required for issuance of a development order for
parcels within the floodplain as defined in this code.
(1998 Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995; Ord. 398, passed 9-11-2001;
Ord. 730, passed 9-24-2019; Ord. 790, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 33.08 BUILDING DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTATION.
   A provision is hereby established allowing for the collection of a $10
administrative fee for services rendered in issuance of County Building
Department documentation.
(1998 Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.09 SCRAP SALES.
   A provision is hereby established allowing for the collection of fees
associated with scrap sales. Such sales are authorized to be conducted by the
City Administrator and the monies collected will be credited to either the
General Fund or one of the various enterprise funds.
(1998 Code, § 32.11) (Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.10 COURT COSTS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   To the extent permitted by Florida law, there is hereby assessed an
additional court cost of $2 against any person, firm, corporation or
organization for violation of municipal ordinances, excepting motor vehicle
parking violations, for law enforcement educational expenditures of police
officers of the city.
   (B)   There is hereby assessed a court cost of $2 from every bond entreated
or forfeited bail bond for the violation of municipal ordinance, excepting
motor vehicle parking violations, for law enforcement educational expenditures
for police officers of the city.
   (C)   The assessment of courts costs as provided in divisions (A) and (B)
above is in addition to the mandatory assessment of a like sum provided by F.S.
§ 943.25(3).
(1998 Code, § 32.12) (Ord. 109, passed 8-25-1981; Ord. 308, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 33.11 IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   The city shall charge an impound fee for each day or portion thereof that a
vehicle is impounded or stored in the police impound lot. The vehicle shall not
be returned or released to the owner until all impound, towing and additionally
incurred expenses and fees are paid. The vehicle impoundment fees are hereby
established at a daily rate of $8. All impound fees will be deposited into the
Special Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
(1998 Code, § 32.13) (Ord. 340, passed 3-11-1997)
§ 33.12 BOAT TRAILER PARKING AND BOAT RAMP FEES.
   (A)   Long term boat trailer parking will be allowed only in designated
areas at the boat ramp.
   (B)   Long term boat trailer parking shall be defined as no longer than 14
calendar days.
   (C)   Vehicles will be prohibited from parking in the designated trailer
parking area.
   (D)   Signs will be placed designating the specific area for boat trailers.
   (E)   Any vehicles or trailers parking outside of the designated area
overnight will be subject to fine or tow at the owners expense.
   (F)   The City Council may establish fees for the use of the boat ramp or
for boat trailer parking at the boat ramp by resolution. The amount of such
fees, their applicability, and associated details may be set by a resolution of
the City Council and may be amended, from time to time, by resolution.
(Ord. 642, passed 8-9-2016; Ord. 763, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 33.13 USE OF CITY MARINA.
   (A)   A provision is hereby established continuing and allowing for the
collection of fees for mooring, electric service, storage, related provision of
services and goods, and late fees, at the city marina and any areas used for
boat parking or boat trailer or car parking for use of water facilities. The
amount of such fees, their applicability, and associated details may be set by
a resolution of the City Council and may be amended, from time to time, by
resolution.
   (B)   If the fees are paid on a monthly basis, they are due in advance of
the first working day of the month, and may be prorated accordingly. If the
fees are paid annually, they are due in advance on the first working day of
either January or July, and may be prorated accordingly.
      (1)   All monthly and annual fees must be paid in advance and before the
boat or vessel is moored in the city marina.
      (2)   All fees for periods of less than one month shall be paid in
advance upon arrival at the marina.
      (3)   All fees are to be placed in the canal reserve account and
dedicated to maintenance and improvements to the city canal and related
facilities.
      (4)   No grandfathering of rates for current users is allowed.
      (5)   When current prepaid rental expires, new rates will apply.
      (6)   The maximum vessel length shall be 35 feet. Exceptions are allowed
on a case-by- case basis. The length will be determined by measuring the
furthest extension, how to stern (pulpits, platforms, engines, etc included).
Length and width will be measured on an as needed basis. Any special support or
racks needed to moor a vessel shall be provided by owner at owner's expense and
only with written permission of the Harbormaster.
   (C)   Any vessel moored in the city canal or marina shall not impede
navigation in the canal. Any such vessel that impedes navigation in the sole
discretion of the Harbor Master shall be removed or relocated immediately at
the owner’s expense and as required by the Harbor Master. During inclement
weather, or the threat of inclement weather, the city may rearrange any vessel
(s) in order to protect its property and require that renting vessel owners
remove or secure their vessels from the city canal and marina. The city shall
not be liable for any damage to any vessel(s) that occurs as a result of
inclement weather or the moving of vessel(s) during such weather or the threat
of such weather. All slip renting vessel owners or tenants of any nature agree
to hold the city and its employees harmless from any such damage that may
result to their vessel(s) or person during such inclement weather or at other
times as may occur.
(Ord. 392, passed 5-8-2001; Ord. 445, passed 8-12-2003; Ord. 662, passed 3-14-
2017; Ord. 763, passed 6-22-2021)
§ 33.14 CIVIC CENTER RENTAL FEE.
   (A)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Civic Center.
         (a)   Recurring weekly events open to the public (ex: any group that
meets at a set time every week and anyone is welcome to attend.) will be
charged a deposit of $100.
         (b)   Mexico Beach city meetings (ex: City Council, MBARA, CDC,
special events committee, etc.) will be exempt from any fee.
         (c)   Private special events (ex: wedding, baby shower, etc.) will be
charged $150 for events lasting less than two hours, to include set up and take
down, and $300 per day for any events lasting longer than two hours. These
rates include a $100 refundable deposit upon returning the key, and building
inspection.
   (B)   Rental process.
      (1)   Applications for use and fee payment can be made at City Hall from
7:30 am-4:00 pm, Monday through Friday.
      (2)   Payment options include money order, cash , credit card or check.
      (3)   City Hall will maintain a calendar and reconcile collections.
      (4)   A separate account will be established to track revenue and costs
of the program.
      (5)   All individuals, group or organizations must fill out a Civic
Center application form.
   (C)   Revenue.
      (1)   All revenue from the collection of rental fees will be restricted
to on-going maintenance and improvements to the building, including costs
associated with the permitting process.
   (D)   Requirements for rental of building.
      (1)   No alcohol will be permitted or served in or around the Civic
Center unless the renter obtains general liability insurance satisfactory to
the city including coverage for liquor liability with limits not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and aggregate combined single limit covering personal
injury, bodily injury and property damage. Such policy shall name the city as
an additional insured. This insurance requirement may be satisfied with a
special event policy or an ongoing policy so long as the policy will cover the
event at the Civic Center. Evidence of such insurance must be provided to the
city for review and approval no later than seven days prior to the scheduled
event. The city reserves the right to deny the renter's request to serve
alcohol based on unsatisfactory insurance coverage, such as due to
objectionable exclusions from coverage. In addition, no alcohol may be sold at
the Civic Center unless the renter has complied with applicable State licensing
requirements.
      (2)   Deposits will be used to pay for any damages done to the facility,
to include cleaning.
      (3)   Any and all keys must be returned after every event, including for
recurring events.
      (4)   Keys or access codes will not be issued until the day of the event
or Friday before a weekend event, unless prior arrangements are made with City
Hall.
      (5)   No individual or group may store anything inside the building at
any time, anything left will be discarded.
      (6)   Damage done to the building exceeding the deposit will be charged
to the last renter.
      (7)   The Council should review the fee after twelve full months of
operation in order to evaluate the fee schedule and any other amendments
necessary for best management of the Civic Center.
   (E)   Penalty. Anyone who brings alcohol into the building without obtaining
the proper liability insurance, will be removed from the building immediately,
forfeit their deposit and lose all rental privileges for one year.
(Ord. 634, passed 5-10-2016)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Communication services tax
Additional Homestead Exemption for Senior Citizens
   
34.15   Authority and purpose
   
34.16   Definitions
   
34.17   Entitlement to additional exemption
   
34.18   Annual adjustment of income
   
34.19   Requirements for claiming additional homestead exemption
   
34.20   Notice requirements
   
34.21   Inapplicable
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 COMMUNICATION SERVICES TAX.
   (A)   Per F.S. §§ 202.10 et seq., the Communications Services Tax
Simplification Law, there is hereby levied in the city a communication services
tax equal to the rate provided by state law on all communication services. This
section eliminates all other telecommunications services taxes and franchise
fees and repeals those sections of Ord. 213 that relate to telecommunications
services taxes.
   (B)   In lieu of permit fees, the city elects to impose the permit add-on of
point 0.12% on all communications services.
(Ord. 423, passed - -)
ADDITIONAL HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR SENIOR CITIZENS
§ 34.15 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the specified authority of § 6(f),
Article VII of the Florida Constitution, and F.S. § 196.075, and the city’s
broad home rules powers granted by F.S. Chapter 166, and the city’s Charter.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 34.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE. The State Department of Revenue for the State of
Florida.
   HOUSEHOLD. A person or group of persons living together in a room or group
of rooms as a housing unit, but the term does not include persons boarding in
or renting a portion of a dwelling.
   HOUSEHOLD INCOME. The adjusted gross income, as defined in I.R.C. § 62, of
all members of a household.
   PROPERTY APPRAISER. The Bay County Property Appraiser.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIXTY-FIVE (65) YEARS OF AGE. A person who has attained the age of 65 prior
to January 1 of the tax year for which the additional homestead exemption is
sought.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 34.17 ENTITLEMENT TO ADDITIONAL EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any person 65 years of age or older who has legal or equitable title
to real estate located within the city and who maintains thereon his or her
permanent residence, and which residence qualifies for and receives homestead
exemption pursuant to § (6)a, Article VII of the Florida Constitution, and
whose household income does not exceed $20,000 (and as may be annually
adjusted) shall be entitled to make application for an additional homestead
exemption of up to $50,000.
   (B)   The additional homestead exemption, if granted, shall be applicable to
all ad valorem tax millage rates levied by the city; and, if applicable, shall
be subject to the provisions of F.S. §§ 196.131 and 196.161. If title to the
property is held jointly with right of survivorship, the person residing on the
property and otherwise qualifying for the additional homestead may receive the
entire amount of the additional homestead exemption provided herein.
   (C)   The additional homestead exemption provided herein shall be available
to qualified persons beginning with the year 2002 tax roll as soon as the
appropriate forms are available from the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002; Ord. 546, passed 6-12-2007)
§ 34.18 ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF INCOME.
   Beginning January 1, 2002, and continuing every January 1 thereafter, the
$21,259 income limitation shall be automatically adjusted by the percentage of
change in the average cost-of-living index in the period of January 1 through
December 31 of the prior year as compared to the same period for the year prior
to that year. As used herein, the term INDEX shall be the average of the
monthly consumer-price index figures for the stated 12-month period, for the
United States as a whole, issued by the United States Department of Labor.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 34.19 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLAIMING ADDITIONAL HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Every person claiming the additional homestead exemption pursuant to
this subchapter must file an application with the County Property Appraiser no
later than March 1 of each year for which such exemption is claimed. The
application shall be on a form prescribed by the State Department of Revenue
and shall include a sworn statement of household income for all members of the
household. On or before June 1 of each year, each applicant must file
supporting documentation with the Property Appraiser, including copies of all
federal income tax returns, wage and earning statements (W-2 forms), and such
other documentation necessary to verify the income received by all members of
the household each year. The applicant’s statement shall attest to the accuracy
of all documentation provided, and the Property Appraiser shall not grant the
exemption without the required documentation.
   (B)   Failure to file the application and sworn statement by March 1, or
failure to file the required supporting documentation by June 1 of any given
year, shall constitute a waiver of the additional exemption privilege for that
year.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 34.20 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall, prior to December 1, 2002, provide a copy of the
ordinance approving this subchapter to the County Property Appraiser; and in
the event this subchapter is subsequently repealed, notification of such repeal
should be provided to the County Property Appraiser no later that December 1
prior to the year in which the homestead exemption provided herein expires.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 34.21 INAPPLICABLE.
   In the event any portion of this subchapter is, for any reason, held or
declared to be unconstitutional, inoperative or void, such holding shall not
affect the remaining portions of this subchapter. Further, in the event this
subchapter or any provision hereof shall be held to be inapplicable to any
person, property or circumstances, such holding shall not affect its
applicability to any other person, property or circumstance.
(Ord. 430, passed 11-12-2002)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Adoption by reference
§ 35.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
    The personnel policies of the city are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated in this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 431, passed 11-12-2002; Ord. 444, passed 7-8-2003; Ord. 458, passed 9-9-
2003; Ord. 526, passed 10-25-2006; Ord. 552, passed 11-13-2007; Ord. 583,
passed 10-11-2011; Ord. 591, passed 5-8-2012; Ord. 596, passed 12-11-2012; Ord.
616, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 622, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. 644, passed 10-11-2016;
Ord. 798, passed 9-27-2022)
CHAPTER 36: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section
General
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Interpretation
Assessments
   
36.10   Authority
   
36.11   Creation of assessment areas
   
36.12   Initial assessment resolution
   
36.13   Assessment role
   
36.14   Notice by publication
   
36.15   Notice by mail
   
36.16   Adoption of final assessment resolution
   
36.17   Annual assessment resolution
   
36.18   Effect of assessment resolutions
   
36.19   Prepayment of assessments
   
36.20   Lien of assessments
   
36.21   Revisions to assessments
   
36.22   Procedural irregularities
   
36.23   Correction of errors and omissions
Collection of Assessments
   
36.40   Method of collection
   
36.41   Alternative method of collection
   
36.42   Responsibility for enforcement
   
36.43   Government property
Issuance of Obligations
   
36.60   General authority
   
36.61   Terms of the obligations
   
36.62   Variable rate obligations
   
36.63   Temporary obligations
   
36.64   Anticipation notes
   
36.65   Taxing power not pledged
   
36.66   Trust funds
   
36.67   Remedies of holders
   
36.68   Refunding obligations
Cross-reference:
   Concurrency Management System, see §§
30.15 et seq.
GENERAL
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   ANNUAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION. The resolution described in §
36.17 hereof, approving an assessment roll for a specific fiscal year.
   ASSESSMENT. A special assessment imposed by the Commission pursuant to this
chapter to fund or expedite recovery of the capital cost of capital
Improvements or the service cost of essential services. The term ASSESSMENT and
the reference to non-ad valorem assessments herein means those assessments
which are not based solely upon millage and which can become a lien against a
homestead as permitted by Article X, Section 4 of the Florida Constitution.
ASSESSMENT may include capital costs or service costs, or any combination of
those costs, associated with the review, planning, investigation, analysis,
permitting, notice, enforcement, remediation, improvement, provision of
services, demolition or removal, or any combination of those, to abate a public
nuisance.
   ASSESSMENT AREA. Any of specific areas created by resolution of the
Commission pursuant to §
36.11 hereof, that specially benefit from capital improvements or essential
services.
   ASSESSMENT COORDINATOR. The City Administrator or such person's designee.
   ASSESSMENT ROLL. The special assessment roll relating to capital
improvements or essential services containing the information specified in §
36.13 and approved by a final assessment resolution or an annual assessment
resolution pursuant to §
36.16 or §
36.17 hereof.
   ASSESSMENT UNIT. The apportionment unit utilized to determine the assessment
for each parcel of property, as set forth in the Initial assessment resolution.
ASSESSMENT UNITS may include, by way of example and not limitation, one or a
combination of the following: front footage, land area, improvement area,
equivalent residential connections or units, permitted land use, trip
generation rates, rights to future trip generation capacity under applicable
concurrency management regulations, property value or any other physical
characteristic or reasonably expected use of the property that is related to
the capital improvements or essential services to be funded from proceeds of
the assessment.
   CAPITAL ASSET. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets intended
or likely to produce benefits or relieve burdens in future accounting periods
beyond the current period.
   CAPITAL COST. All or any portion of the costs that are properly attributable
to the acquisition, design, permitting, preparation, construction,
installation, reconstruction, renewal or replacement (including demolition,
environmental mitigation and relocation) of a capital asset under generally
accepted accounting principles; and including reimbursement to the city for any
funds advanced for capital cost and interest or debt service on any interfund
or intrafund loan or other obligations for such purposes.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. One or more capital asset acquired, designed,
permitted, prepared, constructed, installed, reconstructed, renewed or replaced
(including demolition, environmental mitigation and relocation) in whole or in
part by the city which provide a special benefit to lands within an assessment
area. The term shall include the recovery of costs from undeveloped or
underdeveloped lands that benefit from the availability of capital improvements
as a supplemental or alternative means to pay for or reimburse the city for
providing such improvements.
   CITY. The City of Mexico Beach, Florida.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Mexico Beach, Florida.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The services, facilities, or programs which provide a
special benefit to, or relieve a burden attributable to, lands within an
assessment area.
   FINAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION. The resolution described in §
36.16 hereof, which shall confirm, modify or repeal the initial assessment
resolution and which shall be the final proceeding for the imposition of an
assessment.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period commencing on October 1 of each year and continuing
through the following September 30, or such other period as may be prescribed
by law as the fiscal year for the city.
   GOVERNMENT PROPERTY. Property owned by the United States of America, the
State of Florida, a county, a special district, a municipal corporation, or any
of their respective agencies or political subdivisions.
   INITIAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION. The resolution described in §
36.12 hereof, which shall be the initial proceeding for the imposition of an
assessment.
   OBLIGATIONS. Bonds or other evidence of indebtedness including but not
limited to, notes, commercial paper, capital leases or any other obligation
issued or incurred to finance capital improvements which may be secured, in
whole or in part, by proceeds of the assessments.
   ORDINANCE. This capital improvement and essential services assessment
ordinance.
   PLEDGED REVENUE. As to any series of obligations, (A) the proceeds of such
obligations, including investment earnings, (B) proceeds of the assessments
pledged to secure the payment of such obligations, and (C) any other legally
available non-ad valorem revenue pledged, at the Commission's sole option, to
secure the payment of such obligations, as specified by this chapter and any
resolution authorizing such obligations.
   PROPERTY APPRAISER. The Bay County Property Appraiser.
   RESOLUTION OF INTENT. The resolution expressing the Commission's intent to
collect Assessments on the ad valorem tax bill required by the Uniform
Assessment Collection Act.
   SERVICE COST. All or any portion of the expenses that are properly
attributable to the provision of essential services under generally accepted
accounting principles; and including reimbursement to the city for any funds
advanced for such expenses and interest on any interfund or intrafund loan for
such purposes.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Bay County Tax Collector.
   TAX ROLL. The real property ad valorem tax assessment roll maintained by the
property appraiser for the purpose of the levy and collection of ad valorem
taxes.
   UNIFORM ASSESSMENT COLLECTION ACT. F.S. §§ 197.3632 and 197.3635, or any
successor statutes authorizing the collection of non-ad valorem assessments on
the same bill as ad valorem taxes, and any applicable regulations promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless the context indicates otherwise, words importing the singular number
include the plural number and vice versa; the terms "hereof," "hereby,"
"herein," "hereto," "hereunder" and similar terms refer to this chapter; and
the term "hereafter" means after, and the term "heretofore" means before, the
effective date of this chapter. Words importing either gender include the
correlative words of the other gender unless the context indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
ASSESSMENTS
§ 36.10 AUTHORITY.
   The Commission is hereby authorized to impose assessments against property
located within an assessment area to fund the capital cost of service cost of
capital improvements or essential services incurred by the city. If more than
one parcel is assessed, then the assessment shall be computed in a manner that
fairly and reasonably apportions the capital costs or service costs among the
parcels of property within an assessment area, based upon objectively
determinable assessment units related to the value, use or physical
characteristics of the property, except where the special benefit or burden
relief provided by a capital improvement or essential service is provided
predominantly to a single parcel of property, the resolution shall uniquely
assess only that parcel the capital cost or service cost thereof, as in the
case of the capital cost to abate a public nuisance on a single parcel of
property.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.11 CREATION OF ASSESSMENT AREAS.
   The Commission is hereby authorized to create assessment areas by
resolution. assessment areas may be within or without the city limits.
Provided, however, any assessment area or portion thereof extending outside of
the city limits must be within an unincorporated service area created pursuant
to the Municipal Public Works Act, Chapter 180, Florida Statutes. Each
assessment Area shall encompass only that property specially benefitted by the
capital improvements or essential services proposed for funding from the
proceeds of assessments to be imposed therein. The resolution creating each
assessment area shall include brief descriptions of the proposed capital
improvements or essential services, a description of the property to be
included within the assessment area, and specific legislative findings that
recognize the special benefit or burden relief to be provided by each proposed
by each proposed capital improvement or essential service to property within
the assessment area. Properties in any assessment area need not be adjacent or
contiguous to any other property in an assessment area.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.12 INITIAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.
   The initial proceeding for imposition of an assessment shall be the
Commission's adoption of an initial assessment resolution. The initial
assessment resolution shall:
   (A)   Describe the capital improvements or essential services proposed for
funding from proceeds of the assessments;
   (B)   Estimate, or if known, state the service cost or capital cost;
   (C)   If more than one parcel pf property is assessed, describe with
particularity the proposed method of apportioning the service cost or capital
cost among the parcels of property located within the assessment area, such
that the owner of any parcel of property can objectively determine the amount
of the assessment, based upon its value, use or physical characteristics; and
   (D)   Include specific legislative findings that recognize the equity
provided by the apportionment methodology or, if applicable, that recognize the
equity provided by assessing a predominantly benefitted or relieved, individual
parcel the capital cost or service cost uniquely attributable to that parcel.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.13 ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Assessment Coordinator shall prepare a preliminary assessment roll
that contains the following information:
      (1)   A summary description of each parcel of property (conforming to the
description contained on the tax roll) subject to the assessment;
      (2)   The name of the owner of record of each parcel, as shown on the tax
roll;
      (3)   The number of assessment units attributable to each parcel;
      (4)   If applicable, the estimated maximum annual Assessment to become
due in any fiscal year for each assessment unit; and
      (5)   If applicable, the estimated maximum annual assessment to become
due in any fiscal year for each parcel.
   (B)   Copies of the initial assessment resolution and the preliminary
assessment roll shall be on file in the office of the assessment coordinator
and open to public inspection. The foregoing shall not be construed to require
that the assessment roll be in printed form if the amount of the assessment for
each parcel of property can be determined by use of a computer terminal or
otherwise accessible through the internet or similar data base.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.14 NOTICE BY PUBLICATION.
   After filing the assessment roll in the office of the assessment
coordinator, as required by §
36.13(B) hereof, the assessment coordinator shall publish once in a newspaper
of general circulation within the assessment area a notice stating that at a
meeting of the Commission on a certain day and hour, not earlier than 20
calendar days from such publication, which meeting shall be a regular,
adjourned or special meeting, the Commission will hear objections of all
interested persons to the final assessment resolution and approval of the
assessment roll. The published notice shall conform to the requirements set
forth in the Uniform Assessment Collection Act.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.15 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   In addition to the published notice required by §
36.14 hereof, the Assessment Coordinator shall provide notice of the proposed
assessment by first class mail to the owner of each parcel of property subject
to the assessment. The mailed notice shall conform to the requirements set
forth in the Uniform Assessment Collection Act. Notice shall be mailed at least
20 calendar days prior to the hearing to each property owner at such address as
is shown on the tax roll on the 20th calendar day prior to the date of mailing.
Notice shall be deemed mailed upon delivery thereof to the possession of the
U.S. Postal Service. The Assessment Coordinator may provide proof of such
notice by affidavit.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.16 ADOPTION OF FINAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.
   At the time named in such notice, or to which an adjournment or continuance
may be taken, the Commission shall receive written objections and hear
testimony of interested persons and may then, or at any subsequent meeting of
the Commission, adopt the Final Assessment Resolution which shall:
   (A)   Confirm, modify or repeal the Initial Assessment Resolution with such
amendments, if any, as may be deemed appropriate by the Commission;
   (B)   Establish the maximum amount of the assessment for each assessment
unit;
   (C)   Approve the assessment roll, with such amendments as it deems just and
right; and
   (D)   Determine the method of collecting the assessments.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.17 ANNUAL ASSESSMENT RESOLUTION.
   The Commission shall adopt an annual assessment resolution during its budget
adoption process for each fiscal year in which assessments will be imposed to
approve the assessment roll for such fiscal year. The final assessment
resolution shall constitute the annual assessment resolution for the initial
fiscal year. The assessment roll, as prepared in accordance with the initial
assessment resolution, shall be confirmed or amended by the annual assessment
resolution to reflect the then applicable portion of the cost of the capital
improvements of essential services, or both, to be paid by assessments. If the
proposed assessment for any parcel of property exceeds the maximum amount
established in the notice provided pursuant to §
36.14 hereof or if an assessment is imposed against property not previously
subject thereto, the Commission shall provide notice to the owner of such
property in accordance with §
36.14 and §
36.15 hereof and conduct a public hearing prior to adoption of the annual
assessment resolution. Failure to adopt an annual assessment resolution during
the budget appropriation process for a fiscal year may be cured at any time.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.18 EFFECT OF ASSESSMENT RESOLUTIONS.
   The adoption of the final assessment resolution or of an annual assessment
requiring notice as provided in §
36.17, shall be the final adjudication of the issues presented (including, but
not limited to, the apportionment methodology, the rate of assessment, the
maximum annual assessment of each parcel, the adoption of the assessment roll
and the levy and lien of the assessments), unless proper steps are initiated in
a court of competent jurisdiction to secure relief within 20 days from the date
of the Commission's adoption of the final assessment resolution. The
assessments for each fiscal year shall be established upon adoption of the
annual assessment resolution. If the assessments are to be collected pursuant
to the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, the assessment roll, as approved by
the annual assessment resolution, shall be certified to the tax collector.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.19 PREPAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The assessment imposed against any parcel of property to fund capital
improvements shall be subject to prepayment at the option of the property
owner, as follows:
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of obligations, the Assessment Coordinator
shall provide first class mailed notice to the owner of each parcel of property
subject to the assessment of the Commission's intent to issue such obligations.
On or prior to the date specified in such notice (which shall not be earlier
than the thirtieth day following the date on which the notice is delivered to
the possession of the U.S. Postal Service), or such later date as the
Commission may allow in its sole discretion, the owner of each parcel of
property subject to the assessment shall be entitled to prepay the total
assessment obligation.
      (2)   Following the date specified in the notice provided pursuant to
division (A) hereof, or such later date as the Commission may allow in its sole
discretion, the owner of each parcel of property subject to the assessment
shall be entitled to prepay the total remaining assessment upon payment of an
amount equal to the sum of (a) such parcel's share of the principal amount of
obligations then outstanding, (b) the premium associated with redemption of
such parcel's share of the principal amount of obligations then outstanding,
and (c) interest on such parcel's share of the principal amount of obligations
then outstanding, from the most recent date to which interest has been paid to
the next date following such prepayment on which the city can redeem
obligations after providing all notices required by the ordinance or resolution
authorizing issuance of such obligations; provided however, that during any
period commencing on the date the annual assessment roll is certified for
collection pursuant to the Uniform Assessment Collection Act and ending on the
next date on which unpaid ad valorem taxes become delinquent, the city may
reduce the amount required to prepay the assessments imposed against any parcel
of property by the amount of the assessment certified for collection with
respect to such parcel.
   (B)   At the city's election, the assessment imposed against any parcel of
property may be subject to acceleration and mandatory prepayment if at any time
a tax certificate has been issued and remains outstanding in respect of such
property. In such event, the amount required for mandatory prepayment shall be
the same as that required for an optional prepayment authorized by division (B)
hereof.
   (C)   The amount of all prepayments computed in accordance with this section
shall be final. The city shall not be required to refund any portion of a
prepayment if (1) the capital cost is less than the amount upon which such
prepayment was computed, or (2) annual assessments will not be imposed for the
full number of years anticipated at the time of such prepayment.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.20 LIEN OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Upon adoption of the annual assessment resolution for each fiscal
year, assessments to be collected under the Uniform Assessment Collection Act
shall constitute a lien against assessed property equal in rank and dignity
with the liens of all state, county, district or municipal taxes and other non-
ad valorem assessments. Except as otherwise provided by law, such lien shall be
superior in dignity to all other liens, titles and claims, until paid. The lien
shall be deemed perfected upon adoption by the Commission of the annual
assessment resolution and shall attach to the property included on the
assessment roll as of the prior January 1, the lien date for ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Upon adoption of the final assessment resolution, assessments to be
collected under the alternative method of collection provided in §
36.41 hereof shall constitute a lien against assessed property equal in rank
and dignity with the liens of all state, county, district or municipal taxes
and other non-ad valorem assessments. Except as otherwise provided by law, such
lien shall be superior in dignity to all other liens, titles and claims, until
paid. The lien shall be deemed perfected on the date notice thereof is recorded
in the official records of Bay County, Florida.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.21 REVISIONS TO ASSESSMENTS.
   If any assessment made under the provisions of this chapter is either in
whole or in part annulled, vacated or set aside by the judgment of any court,
or if the Commission is satisfied that any such assessment is so irregular or
defective that the same cannot be enforced or collected, or if the Commission
has omitted the inclusion of any property on the assessment roll which property
should have been so included, the Commission may take all necessary steps to
impose a new assessment against any property benefitted by the capital
improvement or essential service, following as nearly as may be practicable the
provisions of this chapter, and in case such second assessment is annulled, the
Commission may levy and impose other assessments until a valid assessment is
imposed.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.22 PROCEDURAL IRREGULARITIES.
   Any informality or irregularity in the proceedings in connection with the
levy of any assessment under the provisions of this chapter shall not affect
the validity of the same after the approval thereof, and any assessment as
finally approved shall be competent and sufficient evidence that such
assessment was duly levied, that the assessment was duly made and adopted, and
that all proceedings related to such assessment were duly had, taken and
performed as required by this chapter; and no variance from the directions
hereunder shall be held material unless it be clearly shown that the party
objecting was materially injured thereby. Notwithstanding the provisions of
this section, any party objecting to an assessment imposed pursuant to this
chapter must file an objection with a court of competent jurisdiction within
the time periods prescribed herein.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.23 CORRECTION OF ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   No act of error or omission on the part of the Commission, Assessment
Coordinator, Property Appraiser, Tax Collector, or their deputies or employees,
shall operate to release or discharge any obligation for payment of any
Assessment imposed by the Commission under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The number of assessment units attributed to a parcel of property may
be corrected at any time by the Assessment Coordinator. Any such correction
which reduces an assessment shall be considered valid from the date on which
the assessment was imposed and shall in no way affect the enforcement of the
assessment imposed under the provisions of this chapter. Any such correction
which increases an assessment or imposes an assessment on omitted property
shall first require notice to the affected owner at the address shown on the
tax roll notifying the owner of the date, time and place that the Commission
will consider confirming the correction and offering the owner an opportunity
to be heard.
   (C)   After the assessment roll has been delivered to the Tax Collector in
accordance with the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, any changes,
modifications or corrections thereto shall be made in accordance with the
procedures applicable to errors and insolvencies for ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENTS
§ 36.40 METHOD OF COLLECTION.
   Unless directed otherwise by the Commission, assessments (other than
assessments imposed against government property) shall be collected pursuant to
the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, and the city shall comply with all
applicable provisions thereof, including but not limited to (1) entering into a
written agreement with the property appraiser and the tax collector for
reimbursement of necessary expenses, (2) certifying the assessment roll to the
tax collector, and (3) adopting a resolution of intent after publishing weekly
notice of such intent for four consecutive weeks preceding the hearing. The
resolution of intent may be adopted either prior to or following the Initial
assessment resolution; provided however, that the resolution of intent must be
adopted prior to January 1 (March 1 with consent of the property appraiser and
tax collector) of the year in which the assessments are first collected on the
ad valorem tax bill. Any hearing or notice required by this chapter may be
combined with any other hearing or notice required by the Uniform Assessment
Collection Act.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.41 ALTERNATIVE METHOD OF COLLECTION.
   In lieu of using the Uniform Assessment Collection Act, the city may elect
to collect the assessment by any other method which is authorized by law or
provided by this section as follows:
   (A)   The city shall provide assessment bills by first class mail to the
owner of each affected parcel of property, other than government property. The
bill or accompanying explanatory material shall include (1) a brief explanation
of the assessment, (2) a description of the assessment units used to determine
the amount of the assessment, (3) the number of assessment units attributable
to the parcel, (4) the total amount of the parcel's assessment for the
appropriate period, (5) the location at which payment will be accepted, (6) the
date on which the assessment is due, and (7) a statement that the assessment
constitutes a lien against assessed property equal in rank and dignity with the
liens of all state, county, district or municipal taxes and other non-ad
valorem assessments.
   (B)   A general notice of the lien resulting from imposition of the
assessments shall be recorded in the official records of Bay County, Florida,
Nothing herein shall be construed to require that individual liens or releases
be filed in the official records.
   (C)   The city shall have the right to appoint or retain an agent to
foreclose and collect all delinquent assessments in the manner provided by law.
An assessment shall become delinquent if it is not paid within 30 days from the
due date. The city or its agent shall notify any property owner who is
delinquent in payment of an assessment within 60 days from the date such
assessment was due. Such notice shall state in effect that the city or its
agent will initiate a foreclosure action and cause the foreclosure of such
property subject to a delinquent assessment in a method now or hereafter
provided by law for foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, or otherwise as
provided by law.
   (D)   All costs, fees and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and
title search expenses, related to any foreclosure action as described herein
shall be included in any judgment or decree rendered therein. At the sale
pursuant to decree in any such action, the city may be the purchaser to the
same extent as an individual person or corporation. The city may join in one
foreclosure action the collection of Assessments against any or all property
assessed in accordance with the provisions hereof. All delinquent property
owners whose property is foreclosed shall be liable for an apportioned amount
of reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the City and its agents, including
reasonable attorney fees, in collection of such delinquent assessments and any
other costs incurred by the city as a result of such delinquent Assessments
including, but not limited to, costs paid for draws on a credit facility and
the same shall be collectible as a part of or in addition to, the costs of the
action.
   (E)   In lieu of foreclosure, any delinquent assessment and the costs, fees
and expenses attributable thereto, may be collected pursuant to the Uniform
Assessment Collection Act; provided however, that (1) notice is provided to the
owner in the manner required by law and this chapter, and (2) any existing lien
of record on the affected parcel for the delinquent assessment is supplanted by
the lien resulting from certification of the assessment roll or to the tax
collector.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.42 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The city and its agents, if any, shall maintain the duty to enforce the
prompt collection of assessments by the means provided herein. The duties
related to collection of assessments may be enforced at the suit of any holder
of obligations in a court of competent jurisdiction by mandamus or other
appropriate proceedings or actions.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.43 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   If assessments are imposed against government property, the city shall
provide assessment bills by first class mail to the owner of each affected
parcel of government property. The bill or accompanying explanatory material
shall include (1) a brief explanation of the assessment, (2) a description of
the assessment units used to determine the amount of the assessment, (3) the
number of assessment units attributable to the parcel, (4) the total amount of
the parcel's assessment for the appropriate period, (5) the location at which
payment will be accepted, and (6) the date on which the assessment is due.
   (B)   Assessments imposed against government property shall be due on the
same date as assessments against other property within the assessment area and,
if applicable, shall be subject to the same discounts for early payment.
   (C)   An assessment shall become delinquent if it is not paid within 30 days
from the due date. The city shall notify the owner of any government property
that is delinquent in payment of its assessment within 60 days from the date
such assessment was due. Such notice shall state in effect that the city will
initiate a mandamus or other appropriate judicial action to compel payment.
   (D)   All costs, fees and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and
title search expenses, related to any mandamus or other action as described
herein shall be included in any judgment or decree rendered therein. All
delinquent owners of government property against which a mandamus or other
appropriate action is filed shall be liable for an apportioned amount of
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the city or its agents, including
reasonable attorney fees, in collection of such delinquent assessments and any
other costs incurred by the city as a result of such delinquent assessments
including, but not limited to, costs paid for draws on a credit facility and
the same shall be collectible as a part of, or in addition to, the costs of the
action.
   (E)   As an alternative to the foregoing, an assessment imposed against
government property may be collected on the bill for any utility service
provided to such government property. The Commission may also contract for such
billing services with any utility not owned by the city.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
ISSUANCE OF OBLIGATIONS
§ 36.60 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power and is hereby authorized to
provide by ordinance or resolution, at one time or from time to time in series,
for the issuance of obligations to fund capital improvements and any amounts to
be paid or accrued in connection with issuance of such obligations including
but not limited to capitalized interest, transaction costs and reserve account
deposits.
   (B)   The principal of and interest on each series of obligations shall be
payable from pledged revenue. At the option of the Commission, the city may
agree, by ordinance or resolution, to budget and appropriate funds from other
non-ad valorem revenue sources to make up any deficiency in the reserve account
established for the obligations or for the payment of the obligations. The
Commission may also provide, by ordinance or resolution, for a pledge of or
lien upon proceeds of such non-ad valorem revenue sources for the benefit of
the holders of the obligations. Any such ordinance or resolution shall
determine the nature and extent of any pledge of or lien upon proceeds of such
non-ad valorem revenue sources.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.61 TERMS OF THE OBLIGATIONS.
   The obligations shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates,
shall mature at such times as may be determined by ordinance or resolution of
the Commission, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of
the city, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions, all as
may be fixed by the Commission. Said obligations shall mature not later than 40
years after their issuance. The Commission shall determine by ordinance or
resolution the form of the obligations, the manner of executing such
obligations, and shall fix the denominations of such obligations, the place or
places of payment of the principal and interest, which may be at any bank or
trust company within or outside of the State of Florida, and such other terms
and provisions of the obligations as it deems appropriate. The obligations may
be sold at public or private sale for such price or prices as the Commission
shall determine by ordinance or resolution, The obligations may be delivered to
any contractor to pay for the provision of capital improvements or may be sold
in such manner and for such price as the Commission may determine by ordinance
or resolution to be for the best interests of the city.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.62 VARIABLE RATE OBLIGATIONS.
   At the option of the Commission, obligations may bear interest at a variable
rate.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.63 TEMPORARY OBLIGATIONS.
   Prior to the preparation of definitive obligations of any series, the
Commission may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim
certificates, or temporary obligations, exchangeable for definitive obligations
when such obligations have been executed and are available for delivery. The
Commission may also provide for the replacement of any obligations which shall
become mutilated, destroyed or lost. Obligations may be issued without any
other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than
those proceedings, conditions or things which are specifically required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.64 ANTICIPATION NOTES.
   In anticipation of the sale of obligations, the Commission may, by ordinance
or resolution, issue notes and may renew the same from time to time. Such notes
may be paid from the proceeds of the obligations, the proceeds of the
assessments, the proceeds of the notes and such other legally available moneys
as the Commission deems appropriate by ordinance or resolution. Said notes
shall mature within five years of their issuance and shall bear interest at a
rate not exceeding the maximum rate provided by law. The Commission may issue
obligations or renewal notes to repay the notes. The notes shall be issued in
the same manner as the obligations.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.65 TAXING POWER NOT PLEDGED.
   Obligations issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed
to constitute a general obligation or pledge of the full faith and credit of
the city within the meaning of the Constitution of the State of Florida, but
such obligations shall be payable only from pledged revenue and, if applicable,
proceeds of the assessments, in the manner provided herein and by the ordinance
or resolution authorizing the obligations. The issuance of obligations under
the provisions of this chapter shall not directly or indirectly obligate the
city to levy or to pledge any form of ad valorem taxation whatsoever. No holder
of any such obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the
ad valorem taxing power on the part of the city to pay any such obligations or
the interest thereon or to enforce payment of such obligations or the interest
thereon against any property of the city, nor shall such obligations constitute
a charge, lien or encumbrance, legal or equitable, upon any property of the
city, except the pledged revenue.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.66 TRUST FUNDS.
   The pledged revenue received pursuant to the authority of this chapter shall
be deemed to be trust funds, to be held and applied solely as provided in this
chapter and in the ordinance or resolution authorizing issuance of the
obligations. Such pledged revenue may be invested by the city, or its designee,
in the manner provided by the ordinance or resolution authorizing issuance of
the obligations. The pledged revenue upon receipt thereof by the city shall be
subject to the lien and pledge of the holders of any obligations or any entity
other than the city providing credit enhancement on the obligations.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.67 REMEDIES OF HOLDERS.
   Any holder of obligations, except to the extent the rights herein given may
be restricted by the ordinance or resolution authorizing issuance of the
obligations, may, whether at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus or
other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the
state or granted hereunder or under such ordinance or resolution, and may
enforce and compel the performance of all duties required by this part, or by
such ordinance or resolution, to be performed by the city.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
§ 36.68 REFUNDING OBLIGATIONS.
   The city may, by ordinance or resolution of the Commission, issue
obligations to refund any obligations issued pursuant to this chapter, or any
other obligations of the city issued to finance capital improvements, and
provide for the rights of the holders hereof. Such refunding obligations may be
issued in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of the principal of,
redemption premium, if any, and interest on the outstanding obligations to be
refunded and costs of issuance related thereto. If the issuance of such
refunding obligations results in an annual assessment that exceeds the
estimated maximum annual assessments set forth in the notice provided pursuant
to §
36.15 hereof, the Commission shall provide notice to the affected property
owners and conduct a public hearing in the manner required by §
36.40 et seq.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-9-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SANITATION SERVICE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER RATES, REGULATIONS
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
54.   PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS; POLLUTION
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water and sewer impact fee study
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER IMPACT FEE STUDY.
   The city hereby adopts the water and wastewater impact fee study created by
Public Resources Management Group dated March 9, 2005.
(Ord. 487, passed 5-11-2005)
CHAPTER 51: SANITATION SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Re-establishment of sanitation service
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Collection practices
   
51.04   Debris, refuse and garbage cans and containers, location, screening and
containment
   
51.05   Initial schedule of fees and charges
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF SANITATION SERVICE.
   There is hereby established and re-established for the city a sanitation and
debris collection service to serve the existing city limits and as from time to
time may be extended by law. The city shall be the only provider of regularly
scheduled garbage pickup and other sanitation and debris services that the city
provides, as set forth by
Chapter 51 of this code. The purpose of the sanitation service is the
healthful, efficient and economical collection, management, and disposal of
garbage and debris as herein defined.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 768, passed
9-14-2021)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms are herein
defined.
   DEBRIS and GARDEN or LAWN TRASH. All accumulation of grass, leaves,
shrubbery, vines, and trimmings. TREE LOGS or DEBRIS shall not be included
unless the diameter of the tree or limb is less than three inches.
   GARBAGE. Every refuse accumulation of animal, fruit, vegetable matter that
attends the preparation, use, cooking and eating in, or storage of all foods,
meats, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetables, and any other matter of any nature
whatsoever, which is subject to decay and the generation of noxious or
offensive gases or odors, or which during or after decay, may serve as breeding
or feeding material for flies or other germ-carrying insects; and any bottles,
cans, or other containers or paper products, utilized in normal household use,
which due to their facility to retain water, may serve as breeding places for
mosquitoes or other water-breeding insects. This definition of GARBAGE shall
not include the items contained within the above-referenced definition for
DEBRIS. GARDEN or LAWN TRASH. In order to be collected by the Sanitation
Department such GARBAGE must be placed in a TRASH CAN or another approved
container. Household debris is defined as anything not created by nature.
   GARBAGE/TRASH CAN. A watertight container, with suitable handles and a
tight-fitting lid or cover, of the type commonly sold as a "garbage can" and of
a capacity of not more than 32 gallons nor less than 15 gallons.
   RECYCLING. Recycling shall be limited to only newspaper, cardboard, metals,
and approved plastic items, unless further noticed by the city. If you wish to
recycle, any recyclable material must be placed in the appropriate Bay County/
City Recycle Dumpster.
   REFUSE. Garbage and trash, as hereafter defined, and all trash, rubbish,
paper, glass, metal, and discarded matter which the last owner intends to
abandon to the Sanitation Department for disposal, In order to be collected by
the Sanitation Department, such REFUSE must be properly placed in a TRASH CAN
as defined herein. Recyclable items may be deposited in the appropriate
recycling dumpster at the city yard.
   TRASH. Refuse, accumulation of paper, wooded or paper boxes or containers,
sweepings, and all other accumulations of a nature other than GARBAGE or
DEBRIS, as defined herein, which are usual to housekeeping and to the
operations of stores, offices, and other business places.
   WHITE GOODS/APPLIANCES. Some examples are, but not limited to: clothes
washers and dryers, dishwashers, water heaters, residential furnaces, garbage
disposals, trash compactors, conventional and microwave ovens, ranges and
stoves, air conditioners, refrigerators, freezers, etc.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   The following collection practices shall apply so long as the garbage,
trash, refuse, or debris is properly placed in an appropriate trash can or
dumpster.
   (A)   Garbage and trash accumulated by residences and businesses shall be
collected two times per week on regular schedules. Pickups may not occur on
holidays but pickups normally scheduled to be made on a holiday may be
rescheduled by the city.
   (B)   The city will remove a limited amount of yard debris during the
scheduled garbage/trash collection periods. Once per week, the city will remove
one pile of yard debris which shall include grass trimmings, cuttings, tree
limbs, palm fronds, and small trees, not to exceed the volume dimensions which
measures four feet by four feet by eight feet. Limbs and small trees shall be
cut so as to not exceed eight feet in length. Individuals placing yard debris
for collection which exceeds these size standards, shall coordinate through
City Hall for proper removal as a "special pickup" as provided herein. NOTE:
residents will not be charged for the initial four feet by four feet by eight
feet volume but will be charged a special pick-up fee for the additional
volume. Upon the clearing of a lot(s) the owner is responsible for cleaning and
removing all debris resulting from such activity within 30 days from the start
date of the activity. The owner is responsible for removing such debris and may
be cited for a violation of this chapter should such debris be produced by
persons or entities who are not the customer of the city. Yard debris not
created from the actual property of the customer's residence or debris created
from commercial landscaping or construction projects shall not be collected by
the city. Any attempt to have the city collect materials not resulting from the
customers property where debris is located or to collect materials from
commercial landscaping/construction projects shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Highly flammable or explosive materials or chemicals shall not be
placed in trash cans or containers, including dumpsters, for regular collection
but shall be disposed of, in each case, as directed by statute at the expense
of the owner or possessor thereof.
   (D)   Paint in liquid form will not be accepted. Dried paint will be
accepted. Cat litter or sawdust can help speed the process of drying the paint.
   (E)   Televisions and electronics will not be accepted. Items can be taken
to Bay County for disposal.
   (F)   The removal of wearing apparel, bedding, or other refuse from homes or
businesses where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed shall
be performed under the supervision and direction of the Bay County Health
Department. Such refuse shall not be placed in regular trash cans or containers
for collection.
   (G)   Property owners or occupants requesting removal of household
appliances, or "white goods", containing refrigerant and fluorocarbons are
required, prior to pick-up, to remove the chemicals prior to pick-up as may be
directed by the city. All doors on refrigerators and freezers must be removed
prior to their placement on the right-of-way. Furniture and other large items
as deemed appropriate by the city may also be collected by the Sanitation
Department for a fee upon prior arrangements by the customer. This fee will be
established by the city as part of its rate schedule and may be performed by
contract or otherwise. Property owners or occupants wishing to utilize the
white goods or furniture curb side service must contact City Hall to arrange
for pick-up and items should not be placed at the curbside until the day of
scheduled pick-up. Items placed on the curb without prior notification to the
city are subject to all costs, fees, and charges to the city and by the city,
including but not limited to, the white goods/furniture pickup charge and a
penalty of $25 per white good or furniture piece, and/or a code violation
citation. Those customers who do not decommission appliances containing
refrigerant will be billed for the cost incurred by the city for this service.
All charges related to white goods or furniture pickup will either be paid in
advance or added to the customer's monthly billing.
   (H)   Upon the clearing of a lot(s) or portion of a lot(s), the owner is
responsible for cleaning and removing all debris resulting from such activity
within 30 days from the start date of the activity, The owner is responsible
for removing such debris and may be cited for a violation of this chapter
should such debris produced by persons or entities who are not the customer of
the city. Yard debris not created from the actual property of the customer's
residence or debris created from commercial landscaping or construction
projects shall not be collected by the city. Any attempt to have the city
collect materials not resulting from the customer's property where debris is
located shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 639, passed 6-28-2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 658, passed
12-13-2016; Ord. 671, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 51.04 DEBRIS, REFUSE AND GARBAGE CANS AND CONTAINERS, LOCATION, SCREENING AND
CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Residential.   
      (1)   (a)   Refuse, trash, and garbage of any kind shall not be stored on
the public right of way and shall be placed in a garbage or trash can or cans
as defined herein. Except as set forth below for multifamily dwellings,
residential trash, garbage or refuse shall be limited to three 32-gallon trash
cans per residence per collection cycle. (For example, if household garbage is
collected twice per week, a residence will be limited to three trash cans per
collection day, twice per week.) For anything exceeding this amount, the city
will pick up additional bags of refuse, trash, and garbage at the rate listed
in the city’s rate structure and labeled as “Excessive Garbage Fee.” Each
residential unit is required to maintain a separate sanitation collection
account and to pay the residential rate.
         (b)   Refuse, trash, and garbage not placed in a trash can(s) will not
be collected by the City Sanitation Department and if such material is left
outside of a trash can, will be a violation of this section. However, the City
Sanitation Department will collect cardboard boxes left adjacent to the
required trash cans during the regular collection periods so long as such boxes
are empty except for minimal packing materials. Such boxes shall not contain
additional trash, refuse, garbage or debris of any nature. Trash can(s) should
not be placed at the curb until the day of scheduled service.
         
      (2)   Refuse containers and trash cans shall be designed, constructed and
used in such a manner as to preclude offensive odors from disturbing adjacent
property owners or occupants. All trash cans or containers for residential
collection of garbage, refuse or trash shall be screened from public view and
located on the side or rear of the occupant's residence. "Screened from public
view" shall be met if trash cans are located in a partially fenced or incased
receptacle for such containers.
      (3)   Trash cans at multiple dwelling or business units shall be marked
to indicate the unit or apartment to which they belong or are assigned.
      (4)   Plastic garbage bags are not satisfactory outside storage
containers for garbage, refuse, or trash. All garbage, refuse, and trash shall
be placed in a trash can as defined herein and screened from public view.
      (5)   Certain multifamily residences shall be required to use dumpster(s)
instead of individual trash cans. Multifamily developments containing 6 or more
units per building or in the entire development if built or developed as a
unified development, in the discretion of the city, shall be required to use
one dumpster per 18 units. The residential users will pay the standard
residential collection rate per unit but use the dumpster(s) to deposit their
trash, garbage, or refuse.
      (6)   Large multifamily developments may utilize trash compactors for
their garbage disposal needs. Should this be the case, the type and model of
compactor must have prior approval from the city and the City Sanitation
Department will provide the compactor, either itself or through a third-party
contractor, and all associated functions (disposal, maintenance, billing, and
the like). The compactor users will pay the standard residential collection
rate per unit or the actual compactor costs, whichever is higher, but use the
compactor(s) to deposit their trash, garbage, or refuse.
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   All commercial facilities shall pay the monthly commercial
collection fee(s) as set forth in the rate schedule, unless specifically
excluded. Unless expressly approved, refuse, garbage, trash, or debris shall
not be stored on the public right of way and shall be placed in a garbage or
trash can(s). No such materials shall be placed for collection by the City
Sanitation Department by commercial customers where the materials to be
collected were created from off-premises locations or work sites. This shall
specifically include construction, landscaping,
clearing, grading, demolition projects and related activities. Construction or
renovation projects may obtain a temporary dumpster from a non-city entity for
properly permitted construction and renovation projects. The city shall
maintain the right to locate or re-locate such temporary dumpster(s).
      (2)   All provisions set forth above, in divisions (A)(1) through (5)
shall apply except as modified herein.
      (3)   Unless using the dumpster system, commercial businesses shall be
limited to four 32-gallon garbage cans per business per collection cycle. (For
example, if commercial garbage is collected twice per week, then a commercial
customer will be limited to four garbage cans per collection day twice per
week,) Each commercial enterprise is required to maintain a separate sanitation
collection account and to pay the commercial rate.
      (4)   Certain businesses shall be required to use dumpsters for the
collection of its garbage, trash, refuse, and debris. The following businesses
are required to use a dumpster(s) for the collection of garbage, trash, refuse,
and debris:
         (a)   Businesses that operate hotel/motel services with eight or more
rooms;
         (b)   Businesses that operate restaurant and/or food and/or beverage
preparation services and contain ten or more tables or space for 40 or more
patrons;
         (c)   Convenience and grocery stores which exceed 1,200 square feet of
gross usable space.
   (C)   Dumpsters shall be located in an area convenient for City Sanitation
Department collection and the city may require moving or re-location of the
dumpster(s) by the customer. No roofing materials may be placed into a city
dumpster.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016 12-13-2016; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017; Ord.
835, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 51.05 INITIAL SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The following fees and charges shall be the initial fees and charges
used by the city for sanitation services and such fees and charges may be
altered, amended, or increased by resolution or ordinance duly adopted by the
City Council.
   (B)   Initial schedule of fees and charges; monthly:
 
Residential                    $33.36 per residential unit
Commercial                     $48.85 per commercial unit
Dumpster                       $273.96 per dumpster
Additional pick-ups dumpster   $110.00 per pick up
Excessive garbage fee          $10.00 per additional can or equivalent
Special events collection rate Fee TBD dumpster rate
 
   (C)   Payments/late fees.
      (1)   A user fee is hereby established for the explicit purpose of
funding city sanitation services. This fee is applicable to each individual
household or commercial enterprise within the city. Priorities, categories, and
charges will be on file in the City Hall and billing for said user fee will be
annotated on the city monthly utility usage statements.
      (2)   The date of receipt at the Mexico Beach City Hall shall be
considered as the date of payment. Sanitation Department personnel are not
authorized to receive money for the payment of bills. If any sanitation bill
for sanitation service shall be and remain unpaid after 4:30 p.m. on the 20th
day of each month, a 10% penalty shall be imposed and added to said bill; if
the 20th day of the month falls on a weekend, customer will be given until 4:30
p.m. the next regular work day for payment; delinquent after 4:30 p.m.; and if
said bill is not paid by the 2nd Tuesday of the following month at close of
business (4:30 p.m.). Sanitation services will be discontinued and will not be
resumed until all current charges shall have been fully paid.
      (3)   Those accounts opened or closed during the billing cycle will be
prorated and charges assessed based upon the number of days the account was
open during that billing cycle.
      (4)   When a sanitation customer has failed to pay a sanitation bill and
two additional billings for the past due amount, the method for collecting the
sanitation charges will be identical to those of the water and sewer utility
bills.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of Mexico Beach to collect said user fees and
remit to the City Sanitation Fund on or before the 20th day of each month, or
as soon as practicable, all such fees collected during the preceding calendar
month.
      (6)   The collector of the user fee shall keep complete records showing
all fees collected, price being charged monthly for said service being
provided, and the date of payment thereof and the records shall, at all
reasonable times, be open for inspection by duly authorized agents of the city
during business hours on all business days, and said agents shall have
authority to make such transcripts thereof as may be necessary.
      (7)   All other billings and emergencies will be approved and signed by
the City Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 800, passed
9-27-2022; Ord. 818, passed 9-26-2023; Ord. 836, passed 4-9-2024)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of the provision or provisions of this chapter shall
result in a civil fine of up to $500 per violation and violations shall be
processed through the Code Enforcement Officer and the city's Special Master.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than $500. Such fine, and
each and every violation of the provisions of this chapter, shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 609, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 623, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 633, passed 3-8-
2016; Ord. 643, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 686, passed 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER RATES, REGULATIONS
Section
Use of the Municipal Water/Sewer System
Inside City Limits
   
52.01   Connections with water/sewer system
   
52.02   Exceptions to connections
   
52.03   Separate connections for each separate unit
   
52.04   Water cut-off valve, sewer clean out
   
52.05   Limitations on effluent
   
52.06   Connections may be made by the city
   
52.07   Charge or rate for water service
   
52.08   Charge or rate for sewer service
   
52.09   Secondary water meters for non-sewer connected activities
   
52.10   Unlawful connection
   
52.11   Unlawful construction
   
52.12   Connecting old plumbing
   
52.13   Sanitary requirements
   
52.14   Disposal requirements
   
52.15   Septic tank
   
52.16   Failure to maintain plumbing system
   
52.17   No service free
   
52.18   Payment of fees and bills required
   
52.19   Reconnection and service charges
   
52.20   Senior citizen discount for monthly water/sewer customers
   
52.21   Vacant lots
Use of the Municipal Water/Sewer System
Outside City Limits
   
52.30   Connections with water/sewer system
   
52.31   Exceptions to connections
   
52.32   Separate connections for each separate unit
   
52.33   Water cut-off valve, sewer clean out
   
52.34   Limitations on effluent
   
52.35   Charge or rate for water service
   
52.36   Charge or rate for sewer service
   
52.37   Secondary water meters for non-sewer connected activities
   
52.38   Unlawful connection
   
52.39   Unlawful construction
   
52.40   Connecting old plumbing
   
52.41   Sanitary requirements
   
52.42   Disposal requirements
   
52.43   Failure to maintain plumbing system
   
52.44   No service free
   
52.45   Septic tank
   
52.46   Payment of fees and bills required
   
52.47   Reconnection and service charges
   
52.48   Surcharge for customers outside city limits
 
   
52.99   Penalty
USE OF THE MUNICIPAL WATER/SEWER SYSTEM INSIDE CITY LIMITS
§ 52.01 CONNECTIONS WITH WATER/SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where the same shall be available, the owner of every lot or parcel of
land within the city, shall connect, or cause the plumbing of any building or
buildings thereon to be connected, with the municipal water/sewer system of the
city. All such connections shall be made in accordance with this chapter and
all amendments to it as may be adopted from time to time by the City Council.
These rules and regulations shall provide for a charge for making any such
connections in such reasonable amount as such City Council may fix and
determine.
   (B)   A connection fee (or “tap fee”) in the amount of $490 shall be charged
by the city for each connection to the city wastewater system. This fee is
hereby established to cover the actual cost to the water and wastewater
department incurred in the inspection of the connection made to the city sewer
system, to include administrative and engineering costs.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 528, passed 12-12-2006)
§ 52.02 EXCEPTIONS TO CONNECTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to require or entitle any person to
cross the private property of another to make any such water/sewer connection.
The customer desiring connection to the water system will comply with this
chapter and will sign an agreement with the city.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.03 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS FOR EACH SEPARATE UNIT.
   (A)   Each residential and commercial unit, and units within a mixed use
development, whether occupying one or more lots, and whether it shall occupy
any lot or parcel jointly with any other residential or commercial unit, shall
be considered a separate unit for the payment of the water/sewer fees, and
separate connections and meters will be required for each of such units. For
purposes of this chapter, mobile home lots shall be considered as separate
residential units and shall pay full water/sewer rates and impact fees for each
separate lot.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to require existing multi-family
(MDS) residential or multi-commercial units, or both, or commercial units at
the time this chapter was passed (September 12, 2000), being serviced through
one meter to install a separate connection for each unit unless major
alterations are made to the structure or such unit/units (real estate and/or
business operations) are sold, conveyed or transferred to a new owner.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.04 WATER CUT-OFF VALVE, SEWER CLEAN OUT .
   (A)   Effective on the passage of this chapter all new units and connections
will be required to have a water cut-off valve and a sewer clean out on the
property owner’s side of the water and sewer lines.
   (B)   The owner will be responsible for installation of the water cut-off
valve and the sewer clean out.
   (C)   The city will install a cut-off water valve at the meter box on the
customer’s side for new and replacement water meters as it deems necessary.
   (D)   The cost of the valve, where installed by the city, will be added to
the total installation cost of the water meter.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.05 LIMITATIONS ON EFFLUENT.
   The city shall use its best efforts to limit, by ordinance and force of law
if necessary, introduction of the following into the sewer system.
   (A)   Industrial waste. No industrial waste shall be discharged into the
system unless it meets all applicable local, state and federal requirements
regarding pre-treatment and has been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
authority.
   (B)   Stormwater. Stormwater and other miscellaneous liquid flows, such as
roof drain, air conditioning condensate, gasoline or oil shall not be
discharged into the system.
   (C)   Septic tank pump out. Septic tank pump outs shall not be discharged
into the system without the prior approval of the city. Any additional or
extraordinary treatment cost of treating septic tank pump-outs shall be done by
the owner prior to permitting discharge of the pump-out into the system.
   (D)   Miscellaneous. All effluent materials and discharges into the system
shall meet applicable regulations of the State Department of Environmental
Protection, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and such
reasonable pre-treatment regulations and prohibitions as may be promulgated
from time to time by the city.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.06 CONNECTIONS MAY BE MADE BY THE CITY.
   If any such owner of any lot or parcel of land within the city shall fail
and refuse to connect with the facilities of the water/sewer system of the city
after notification by the city as provided herein, then the city shall take
such other action as provided by law to enforce connection to the city water/
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.07 CHARGE OR RATE FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any user of the services of the water utility system shall pay
therefor a monthly charge or rate as indicated by the appropriate category of
this section.
   (B)   Residential accounts:
 
Rates                     Monthly Basis
3/4-inch 4,000 gallons    $40.39, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
1-inch 6,000 gallons      $60.06, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
Hydrant usage             $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
3/4-inch irrigation meter $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
No sewer fees will be charged on irrigation meters
A utility tax will be charged on all water usage in accordance with local law
 
   (C)   Duplex dwellings or multi-family (MDS) on the same building site
serviced by one service connection prior to the passage of this chapter, shall
pay the minimum charge of $40.39 per unit in the structure.
      (1)   The base allowance will be the 4,000 gallons for each unit in the
building.
      (2)   All excess usage will be charged at the rate of $3.57 per 1,000
gallons.
   (D)   Commercial accounts:
 
Rates                    Monthly Basis
1-inch 6,000 gallons     $60.06, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
1-1/2-inch 9,000 gallons $83.87, excess $3.5 per 1,000 gallons
2-inch 12,000 gallons    $111.23, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
3-inch 18,000 gallons    $162.47, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
4-inch 24,000 gallons    $216.00, excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (E)   Temporary construction meters, three-fourths-inch, can be purchased by
the customer upon request for construction purposes. The monthly rate will be
$40.39 for one to 4,000 gallons/excess $3.57 per 1,000 gallons, not to exceed
three months unless approved by the City Administrator.
   (F)   Inactive accounts, excluding vacant lots, will be required to pay a
base rate of $26.08. The inactive fee excludes the usage fee of $3.57 per 1,000
gallons and is the customer’s portion of debt and operation.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 528, passed 12-12-2006; Ord. 618, passed 10-
21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 651, passed 11-9-2016; Ord. 685,
passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738, passed 11-12-2019;
Ord. 799, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 817, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 52.08 CHARGE OR RATE FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any user of the services of the sewer utility system shall pay
therefor a monthly charge or rate as indicated by the appropriate category of
this section.
   (B)   Residential accounts:
      (1)   Base monthly charge: $53.27 (4,000 gallons base usage); and
      (2)   Volumetric charge: $4.75 excess per 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   Commercial accounts:
      (1)   Base monthly charge: $53.27 (4,000 gallons base usage); and
      (2)   Volumetric charge: $4.75 excess per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   Special category section:
         (a)   Restaurants/bars/eateries:
Seating Monthly Base Rate Base Usage
Seating    Monthly Base Rate                              Base Usage
0 to 25    $53.27                                         4,000 gallons
26 to 50   $80.25                                         6,000 gallons
51 to 75   $106.54                                        8,000 gallons
76 to 100  $131.97                                        10,000 gallons
101 to 125 $166.30                                        16,000 gallons
126 to 150 $199.43                                        22,000 gallons
151 to 175 $226.07                                        24,000 gallons
176 to 200 $252.71                                        26,000 gallons
201 to 250 $305.97                                        30,000 gallons
251 to 300 $359.24                                        34,000 gallons
Above 300  Add $53.27 per 50 seats/add 4,000 per 50 seats
All restaurants/bars/eateries shall be charged $4.75 per 1,000 gallons
processed in excess of the establishment’s base usage amounts.
 
         (b)   Convenience stores/gasoline stations:
            1.   Basic monthly charge: $159.80 (12,000 gallons base usage); and
            2.   Volumetric charge: $4.75 excess per 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Large retail (12,000 square feet and above):
            1.   $213.07 (16,000 gallons base usage);
            2.   Volumetric charge: $4.75 excess per 1,000 gallons.
         (d)   Private recreational facility:
 
Up to 0.50 acre ground coverage  $79.90 (6,000 gallons base usage)
0.51 to 10 acres ground coverage $106.54 (8,000 gallons base usage)
10.01 acres and above            $159.80 (12,000 gallons base usage)
 
         (e)   Hotel/motel rooms/recreational vehicle:
 
(RV) sites $14.58 per each hotel/motel room and RV site (base usage = monthly
           base rate/$53.27 x 4,000)
(E.g., 10 rooms/RV sites: 10 x 13.00 = $130.00 = 2.63 x 4,000 = 1-,520 as the
base rate.)
 
   (D)   Duplex dwellings or multi-family (MDS) on the same building site
serviced by one service connection prior to passage of this chapter shall pay
the minimum of $53.27 for the first unit and $53.27 per additional unit in the
structure. All usage of the first 4,000 gallons will have a volumetric charge
of $4.75 per 1,000.
   (E)   Inactive accounts, excluding vacant lots, will be required to pay a
base rate of $34.23. The inactive fee excludes the usage fee of $4.75 per 1,000
gallons and is the customer’s portion of debt and operation.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 618, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-
13-2015; Ord. 651, passed 11-9-2016; Ord. 685, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708,
passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738, passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 756, passed 11-10-2020;
Ord. 774, passed 10-26-2021; Ord. 799, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 817, passed 9-26-
2023)
§ 52.09 SECONDARY WATER METERS FOR NON-SEWER CONNECTED ACTIVITIES.
   There is no monthly minimum fee for the secondary meter; the secondary meter
billing will reflect the monthly water consumption and all applicable taxes.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 618, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-
13-2015; Ord 651, passed 11-9-2016; Ord. 685, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708,
passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738, passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 799, passed 9-27-2022;
Ord. 817, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 52.10 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to connect into any water line or sewer
line owned by the city without the written consent of the city, and then the
connection with such line shall be made only under the direction and
supervision of the Water/Sewer Superintendent.
   (B)   Any property owner or plumber who shall make any connection without
such consent of the city shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   No person, group of persons, firm or corporation shall build or remodel or
cause to be built or remodeled any structure used for human habitation or
occupancy within the city, unless it is provided with water and sanitary
facilities which are connected to the associated city provided utilities.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 CONNECTING OLD PLUMBING.
   (A)   Whenever it is desirable to connect old plumbing with the city’s sewer
main and/or water line, the owner or plumber contemplating doing such work
shall notify the County Building Department who will inspect said old plumbing
and notify the owner or plumber what alterations will be necessary to place the
old plumbing in an acceptable condition for such connection.
   (B)   Any owner or plumber who shall make any connection without the
approval of the County Building Department shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.13 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Every resident and building in which human beings reside are employed or
congregated, shall be required to have a sanitary method of disposing of human
excrement, namely a sanitary water closet that is connected with the city
sewer.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.14 DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation owning or
leasing any premises in the city to permit the disposal of any human excrement
on any property, leased or rented by any such person, firm or corporation or
the agent of any such person, firm or corporation, except in approved sanitary
facilities connected to the city sewer system.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 SEPTIC TANK.
   No septic tanks will be installed within the corporate limits of the city
unless the city cannot service a given area, in such cases a County Health
Department septic tank permit must be obtained. Customers will be required to
have their septic tank abandoned in accordance with county requirements.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PLUMBING SYSTEM.
   Failure to keep the sewer pipe that is connected to the city’s sewer main
free of leaks or breaks will give the city the right to cut off the water
connection, which shall not be reconnected until the sewer pipe is repaired.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.17 NO SERVICE FREE.
   No water nor sewage disposal service shall be furnished or rendered free of
charge to any person, firm or corporation whatsoever, and the city and each and
every agency or department which uses either or both such services shall pay
therefor at the rates fixed by this chapter.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.18 PAYMENT OF FEES AND BILLS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Bills for the monthly charges and fees herein before mentioned shall
be mailed by the utilities billing personnel at City Hall and shall be paid
monthly by the user.
   (B)   The date of receipt at the City Hall shall be considered as the date
of payment, Water/Sewer Department maintenance personnel are not authorized to
receive money for the payment of bills. If any water/sewer bill for water/sewer
service shall be and remain unpaid after 4:30 p.m. on the twentieth day of each
month, a 10% penalty shall be imposed and added to said bill; if the twentieth
day of the month falls on a weekend, customer will be given until 4:30 p.m. the
next regular work day for payment; delinquent after 4:30 p.m.; and if said bill
is not paid by the second Tuesday of the following month at close of business
(4:30 p.m.), the water will be turned off without further notice and will not
be re-connected until all current charges shall have been fully paid plus a
reconnection charge. Accounts receiving meter turn-offs between and including
the fifteenth and the thirty-first of the month will be billed in full,
including any additional volumetric usage charges. Accounts receiving meter
turn-offs between and including the first and the fourteenth of the month will
be charged one-half the base rate, unless such account uses its base usage
amount in full (e.g., 4,000 gallons, for residential), and in such case then
the full base rate and any and all volumetric charges will be due in full.
   (C)   A meter reader is required to read each active water meter monthly. If
it has been determined that a meter was not read and the next meter reading is
above the minimum, the Water Department Clerk will determine an average monthly
consumption and is authorized to adjust and give credit if appropriate.
   (D)   When a meter reading has been certified correct by the Water/Sewer
Department Superintendent and a customer disputes the reliability of the meter
functioning properly, meter will be sent (at customer’s request) to the
manufacturer for certification. If the manufacturer certifies the meter is
functioning properly, costs for shipping, handling and meter testing will be
billed to and paid in full by the customer. Customer will also be responsible
for the water usage existing on the water meter. If a meter is certified as
faulty, the Water Department will pay all shipping, handling and testing fees
and water usage will be written off.
   (E)   When a water/sewer customer has failed to pay a water bill and two
additional billings for the past due amount have been sent to the customer and
bill remains unpaid, the total amount due will be referred to a collection
agency if the amount due is $25 or more. Upon collection of the bill, the
percentage fee retained by the collection agency will be written off. Past due
bills of less than $25 and six months old or older will be referred to the City
Administrator for permission to be written off.
   (F)   All “other billings and emergency provision of water” will be approved
and signed by the City Administrator on a case-by-case basis. Emergency
provision of water will not exceed three working days.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.19 RECONNECTION AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   A re-connection charge of $15 shall be paid for restoring all
voluntary or involuntary disconnections if the service is restored within 30
days. Users moving from one location to another within the water/sewer service
area will be charged a re-connection fee of $15 if the service is restored at
the new location within 30 days. Service not restored within 30 days of
disconnection will be charged $40 for reconnection. User requested
disconnections or re-connections or other user problems requiring a service
call by Water Department personnel at times other than the normal working hours
of Water/Sewer Department personnel will be charged a service fee of $30 in
addition to the re-connection charge above.
   (B)   For record purposes, Water/Sewer Department personnel are required to
fill out the “work report” section of the work order clearly explaining the
nature and extent of the problem and action taken.
   (C)   Upon disconnections, Water/Sewer Department personnel will lock or
seal the valve or remove the water meter.
   (D)   The person or agent signing the agreement form for water service is
responsible for the water/sewer bill. Landlords wanting their tenants
responsible for water/sewer bills should have their tenants sign the agreement
form for water/sewer service and pay a reconnection fee.
   (E)   Money must be paid in full for re-connections or new installations.
The City Administrator is authorized to make adjustments in these provisions
for a justifiable hardship case.
   (F)   The Water/Sewer Department will not refuse water/sewer service to a
renter if another renter defaults; however, if an owner defaults, a renter will
be denied water service until any unpaid balance and re-connection fees are
paid in full.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.20 SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNT FOR MONTHLY WATER/SEWER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person that is a customer of the city water/sewer system
that qualifies for and receives homestead exemption pursuant to § 6(a), Article
VII of the Florida Constitution, and who meets the following criteria will
receive this discount:
         (a)   Must be a full-time, year-round resident of the city or its
service area;
         (b)   Be at least 65 years of age as of October 1 of the year to file;
and
         (c)   Have a household adjusted gross income that does not exceed the
limit announced by the State of Florida each January.
      (2)   HOUSEHOLD ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: the sum of income for all members
of the household. For the purposes of applying for this exemption, it is the
adjusted gross income figure that
is calculated and reported on the federal income tax return of all household
members.
   (B)   Customers qualifying for this discount shall be charged the following:
      (1)   Water: $31.27 up to 4,000 gallons;
      (2)   Sewer: $41.31 up to 4,000 gallons; and
      (3)   All applicable taxes will be included.
(Ord. 618, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 651, passed 11-
9-2016; Ord. 685, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738,
passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 756, passed 11-10-2020; Ord. 774, passed 10-26-2021;
Ord. 799, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 817, passed 9-26-2023)
§ 52.21 VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   Customers with vacant lots will be charged the following rates:
      (1)   Water: $26.08;
      (2)   Excess consumption charges shall be at the prevailing per 1,000
gallon rate (in excess of 4,000 gallons); and
      (3)   All applicable taxes will be included.
   (B)   This section was effective April 1, 1997, when the city implemented
this policy and discussed this waiver during a public meeting on January 23,
1997, and only applies to those customers paying base rates since April 1,
1997, on vacant land. Customers that have vacant lots and pay the base rates
without interruption will be exempt from paying water and sewer impact fees at
the time of construction. Upon the sale of the property, this waiver will pass
to the new property owner(s), providing there in no interruption in payment of
fees.
(Ord. 618, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 651, passed 11-
9-2016; Ord. 685, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738,
passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 799, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 817, passed 9-26-2023)
USE OF THE MUNICIPAL WATER/SEWER SYSTEM OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
§ 52.30 CONNECTIONS WITH WATER/SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where the same shall be available, the owner of every lot or parcel of
land adjoining the city water/sewer system in Gulf/Bay County, may connect, or
cause the plumbing of any building or buildings thereon to be connected, with
the municipal water/sewer works system of the city, and use the facilities of
such system. All such connections shall be made in accordance with the rules
and regulations which shall be adopted from time to time by the City Council of
the city, these rules and regulations shall provide for a charge for making any
such connections in such reasonable amount as such Council may fix and
determine. Connections to the city sewer system to residential or commercial
units located outside the city limits shall not be required and occur only if
the city is willing and able to serve such locations, as determined by the City
Council following submission of an application to the City Council. Sewer rates
and impact fees for such connections shall be established by the city on a
case-by-case basis using the existing rates and impact fees charged to users
located within the city limits as a basis.
   (B)   Where water and sewer are afforded a customer outside the city limits,
the customer shall pay a monthly fee in accordance with the prevailing rate
schedule plus a surcharge of 25% thereof.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 767, passed 9-14-2021; Ord. 799, passed 9-27-
2022; Ord. 817, passed 9-26-2023)
State law reference:
   Limitation on rates charged consumers outside city limits, F.S. 180.191
§ 52.31 EXCEPTIONS TO CONNECTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to require or entitle any person to
cross the private property of another to make any such water/sewer connections.
The customer desiring connection to the water/sewer system will comply with
this chapter and will sign an agreement with the city.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.32 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS FOR EACH SEPARATE UNIT.
   Each residential unit whether occupying one or more lots and whether it
shall occupy any lot or parcel jointly with any other residential unit shall be
considered a separate unit for the payment of the water/sewer fees, and
separate connections and meters will be required for each of such units. This
chapter shall not be construed to require existing multi-family (MDS) units, at
the time this chapter is passed, being serviced through one city meter to
install a separate connection for each unit unless major alterations are made
to the structure or unit/units are sold to a new owner.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.33 WATER CUT-OFF VALVE, SEWER CLEAN OUT .
   Effective on the passage of this chapter, all new units and connections will
be required to have a water cut-off valve and a sewer clean out valve on a
case-by-case basis on the property owner’s side of the water and sewer lines.
The owner will be responsible for installation of the water cut-off valve and
the sewer clean out. The city will install a cut-off water valve at the meter
box on the customer’s side for new and replacement water meters as it deems
necessary. The cost of the valve, where installed by the city, will be added to
the total installation cost of the water meter.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.34 LIMITATIONS ON EFFLUENT.
   The city shall use its best efforts to limit, by ordinance and force of law
if necessary, introduction of the following into the sewer system.
   (A)   Industrial waste. No industrial waste shall be discharged into the
system unless it meets all applicable local, state and federal requirements
regarding pre-treatment and has been reviewed and approved by the appropriate
authority.
   (B)   Stormwater. Stormwater and other miscellaneous liquid flows, such as
roof drain, air conditioning condensate, gasoline or oil shall not be
discharged into the system.
   (C)   Septic tank pump out. Septic tank pump outs shall not be discharged
into the system without the prior approval of the city. Any additional or
extraordinary treatment cost of treating septic tank pump-outs shall be done by
the owner prior to permitting discharge of the pump-out into the system.
   (D)   Miscellaneous. All effluent materials and discharges into the system
shall meet applicable regulations of the State Department of Environmental
Protection, the United States Environmental Protection Agency and such
reasonable pre-treatment regulations and prohibitions as may be promulgated for
time to time by the city.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.35 CHARGE OR RATE FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any user of the services of the waterworks system shall pay therefor a
monthly charge or rate as indicated by the appropriate category of this
section.
   (B)   Residential accounts:
 
Rates                  Monthly Basis
3/4-inch 4,000 gallons $30.97 excess $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
1-inch 6,000 gallons   $50.38 excess $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
Hydrant usage          $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Duplex dwelling or multi-family dwelling (MDS) on the same building
site serviced by one service connection, prior to the passage of this chapter,
shall pay the minimum charge of $30.97 for the first unit and $30.97 per
additional unit in the dwelling. The base allowance, however, will be 4,000
gallons for each unit in the dwelling. All usage per unit exceeding 4,000
gallons will be charged at the rate of $2.68 per 1,000 gallons.
   (D)   Commercial accounts:
 
Rates                 Monthly Basis
1-inch 6,000 gallons  $50.28 excess $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
2-inch 12,000 gallons $96.12 excess $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
3-inch 18,000 gallons $137.69 excess $2,68 per 1,000 gallons
4-inch 24,000 gallons $184.58 excess $2.68 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (E)   Connection fees:
 
3/4-inch tap $316, or actual cost (whichever is greater)
1-inch tap $448, or actual cost (whichever is greater)
2-inch and over tap $885 or actual cost (whichever is greater)
In addition to tap fees, backflow preventers will be installed on all new
connections
 
   (F)   Impact fee: $2,125 per ERC. See §
52.36(E) to determine impact fee(s).
   (G)   The city reserves the right to enter into contracts with large users
of water for the purpose of setting and determining a monthly charge or rate
for the use of such service, which monthly rate or charge may be computed upon
a different basis than set forth in division (F) above. Such contracts shall be
entered into by means of a resolution duly adopted by the City Council.
   (H)   Customers may pay in advance for new installations and valves for new
meters and such new installations will be sealed or locked until the customer
requests service. Reconnection fees will not be charged.
   (I)   The meter reading of a new installation between the fifteenth and
thirty-first of the month will not be entered into the computer until the meter
reading in the following month, at which time one month’s minimum plus charges
for total consumption will be charged.
   (J)   The Water Department will move a meter from one location to another
within the same lot for a property owner for the cost of labor and parts,
except cases which would benefit the city and/or correct previous installation
errors. This section does not and is not intended to waive in any manner
required water/sewer impact fees. The City Administrator/Public Works Director
is authorized to have Water Department personnel correct such exceptions
without cost to the property owner.
   (K)   Commercial buildings serviced by a three-fourths-inch meter prior to
the passage of this chapter shall pay the minimum charge of $50.28. All usage
over 6,000 gallons will be charged at $2.68 per 1,000 gallons.
   (L)   All other commercial buildings requiring water service must be
supplied by a one-inch meter or larger. The following current situations are
unique and require special consideration as follows.
      (1)   Any existing business complex serviced by a three-fourths-inch or
larger meter will be charged the business rate times the number of business
units in the complex.
      (2)   Any existing combination of business and residential units serviced
by a three-fourths-inch or larger meter will be charged the basic commercial
rate times the number of businesses plus the basic residential rate times the
number of residential units.
      (3)   If there is more than one business within a business facility and
they have the same owner, the business will be charged the single basic
commercial rate.
      (4)   If one or more of the businesses in a business complex is seasonal,
it will be charged the basic commercial rate only while the business is in
operation. It will be the responsibility of the owner or lessor of the complex
to notify the City Water Department when the seasonal business begins and ends.
   (M)   A property owner possessing a water meter or sewer system shall be
responsible for any and all water and sewer usage on such property including
unauthorized water or sewer usage through a meter or account that has been
inactivated.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.36 CHARGE OR RATE FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any user of the services of the sewer works system shall pay therefor
a monthly charge or rate as indicated by the appropriate category of this
section.
   (B)   Residential accounts:
 
Base monthly charge $38 (4,000 gallons base usage)
Volumetric charge   $2.50 excess per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Commercial accounts:
 
Basic monthly charge $38 (4,000 gallons base usage)(unless listed below in
                     special category section)
Volumetric charge    $2.50 excess per 1,000 gallons
All commercial accounts will be charged a separate basic commercial charge, at
the appropriate commercial rate plus volumetric excess charges set forth
herein, for each business activity conducted on its premises (e.g., a
restaurant with 60 seats and a gift shop will be charged a base rate of $70
restaurant portion and $38 gift shop portion for a total of $108, plus any
volumetric charges that may apply)
 
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.37 SECONDARY WATER METERS FOR NON-SEWER CONNECTED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   A provision is hereby established providing for the installation of a
second water meter by either commercial or residential accounts. This meter
wilt be charged for water consumption only. This meter may only be used to
provide water to the following activities: non-sanitary or consumption such as
marinas, swimming pools and sprinkler systems.
   (B)   Each installation of a secondary meter will be approved on an
individual basis where it is determined that water used is not capable of
entering the sewer system. Cost for the second meter will be the normal cost
for a meter installation without impact fees plus backflow preventor fee. The
municipal water department will set the meter and backflow preventor.
   (C)   There is no monthly minimum fee for the secondary meter, the secondary
meter billing will reflect the monthly water consumption and all applicable
taxes.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004; Ord. 651, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 52.38 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall be allowed to connect into any water line or sewer line
owned by the city without the written consent of the city, and then the
connection with such line shall be made only under the direction and
supervision of the Water/Sewer Superintendent. Any property owner or plumber
who shall make any connection without such consent of the city shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   No person, group of persons, firm or corporation shall build or remodel or
cause to be built or remodeled any structure used for human habitation or
occupancy within the city and other jurisdictions using the city’s water/sewer
system unless it is provided with water and sanitary facilities which are
connected to the associated city provided utilities.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.40 CONNECTING OLD PLUMBING.
   Whenever it is desirable to connect old plumbing with the city’s sewer main
and/or water line, the owner or plumber contemplating doing such work shall
notify the City Building Department who will inspect said old plumbing and
notify the owner or plumber what alterations will be necessary to place the old
plumbing in an acceptable condition for such connection. Any owner or plumber
who shall make any connection without the approval of the City Building
Department shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.41 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Every residence and building in which human beings reside are employed or
congregated, shall be required to have a sanitary method of disposing of human
excrement, namely a sanitary water closet that is connected with the city
sewer.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.42 DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation owning or
leasing any premises in the city to permit the disposal of any human excrement
on any property, leased or rented by any such person, firm or corporation or
the agent of any such person, firm or corporation, except in approved sanitary
facilities connected to the city sewer system.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43 FAILURE TO MAINTAIN PLUMBING SYSTEM.
   Failure to keep the sewer pipe that is connected to the city’s sewer main
free of leaks or breaks will give the city the right to cut off the water/sewer
connection, which shall not be reconnected until the sewer pipe is repaired.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.44 NO SERVICE FREE.
   No water nor sewage disposal service shall be furnished or rendered free of
charge to any person, firm or corporation whatsoever, and the city and each and
every agency or department which uses either or both such services shall pay
therefor at the rates fixed by this chapter.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 SEPTIC TANK.
   Septic tank or drain field installation shall not be located within ten feet
of water lines.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.46 PAYMENT OF FEES AND BILLS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Bills for the monthly charges and fees hereinbefore mentioned shall be
submitted by the Water Department and shall be paid monthly by the user. The
date of receipt at the City Hall shall be considered as the date of payment.
Water Department personnel are not authorized to receive money for the payment
of water bills. If any water bill for water service shall be and remain unpaid
after 4:30 p.m. on the twentieth day of each month, a 10% penalty shall be
invoiced and added to said bill; if the twentieth day of the month falls on a
weekend, the customer will be given until 4:30 p.m. the next regular work day
for payment; delinquent after 4:30 p.m.; and if said bill is not paid by the
second Wednesday of the following month the water will be turned off without
further notice and will not be reconnected until all past due charges shall
have been fully paid plus a reconnection charge.
   (B)   Accounts receiving meter turn-offs between and including the fifteenth
and the thirty-first of the month will be billed in full, including any
additional volumetric usage charges. Accounts receiving meter turn-offs between
and including the first and the fourteenth of the month will be charged one-
half the base rate, unless such account uses its base usage amount in full
(e.g., 4,000 gals, for residential), and in such case then the full base rate
and any and all volumetric charges will be due in full.
   (C)   The meter reader is required to read each active account monthly. If
it has been determined that a meter was not read and the next meter reading is
above the minimum, the Water Department Clerk will determine an average monthly
consumption and is authorized to adjust and give credit if appropriate.
   (D)   When a meter reading has been certified correct by the Water
Department Superintendent and a customer disputes the reliability of the meter
functioning properly, a meter will be sent (at the customers request) to the
manufacturer for certification. If the manufacturer certifies that the meter is
functioning properly, costs for shipping, handling and meter testing will be
billed to and paid in full by the customer. The customer will also be
responsible for the water usage existing on the water meter. If a meter is
certified as faulty, the Water Department will pay all shipping, handling and
testing fees and the water usage will be written off.
   (E)   When a water customer has failed to pay a water bill and two
additional billings for the past due amount have been sent to the customer and
the bill remains unpaid, the total amount due will be referred to a collection
agency if the amount due is $25 or more. Upon collection of the bill, the
percentage fee retained by the collection agency will be written off past due
bills of less than $25 and six months old or older will be referred to the City
Administrator for permission to be written off.
   (F)   All “other billings and emergencies” will be approved and signed by
the City Administrator on a case-by-case basis. Emergencies normally will not
exceed three working days.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.47 RECONNECTION AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   A reconnection charge of $15 shall be paid for restoring all voluntary
or involuntary dis-connections if service is restored within 30 days. Users
moving from one location to another within the water service area will be
charged a reconnection fee of $15 if the service is restored at the new
location within 30 days. Service not restored within 30 days of a disconnection
will be charged $60 for reconnection. User-requested disconnections or re-
connections or other user problems requiring a service call by Water Department
personnel at times other than the normal working hours of the Water Department
personnel will be charged a service fee of $30 in addition to the reconnection
charge as stated above.
   (B)   For record purposes, Water Department personnel are required to fill
out the “work report” section of the work order, clearly explaining the nature
and extent of the problem and action taken.
   (C)   Upon disconnections, Water Department personnel will lock or seal the
valve or remove the water meter.
   (D)   The person/agent signing the agreement form for water service is
responsible for the water bill. Landlords wanting their tenants responsible for
water bills should have their tenants sign the agreement form for water service
and pay a re-connection fee.
   (E)   Money must be paid in full for re-connections or new installations.
The City Administrator is authorized to make adjustments in these provisions
for a justifiable hardship case.
   (F)   The Water Department will not refuse water service to a renter if
another renter defaults; however, if an owner defaults, a renter will be denied
water service until any unpaid balance and reconnection fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.48 SURCHARGE FOR CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Where water and sewer are afforded a customer outside the city limits, the
customer shall pay monthly fees in accordance with the prevailing rate schedule
plus a surcharge of 25% thereof.
(Ord. 618, passed 10-21-2014; Ord. 625, passed 10-13-2015; Ord. 651, passed 11-
9-2016; Ord. 685, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 708, passed 12-11-2018; Ord. 738,
passed 11-12-2019)
Statutory references:
   Limitation on rates charged consumers outside city limits, see F.S. §
180.191
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, for each such offense, be subject to a
fine of not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for not to exceed 60 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 471, passed 4-13-2004)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Responsibility
   
53.03   Definitions
Requirements
   
53.15   Water system
   
53.16   Policy
   
53.17   Violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within the customer’s
internal distribution system(s) or the customer’s private water system(s) such
contaminants or pollutants that could backflow into the public water system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the customer’s in-plant potable water system(s)
and non potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and industrial piping
systems; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control that will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 53.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Public Works Director, Water Department Superintendent or designee shall
be responsible for the protection of the public potable water distribution
system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of said
Public Works Director, Water Department Superintendent or designee, an approved
backflow prevention assembly is required (at the customer’s water service
connection; or, within the customer’s private water system) for the safety of
the water system, the Public Works Director, Water Department Superintendent or
designee shall give notice in writing to said customer to install such an
approved backflow prevention assembly(s) at specific location(s) on his or her
premises. The customer shall immediately install such approved assembly(s) at
his or her own expense; and failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
customer to install, have tested, and maintain said assembly(s) shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
requirements have been satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water or waste to
a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor or other assembly and the flood level rim of
the receptacle. These vertical, physical separations must be at least twice the
diameter of the water supply outlet, never less than one inch (25 mm).
   APPROVED. Accepted by the authority responsible as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed
use,
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any
natural source(s), such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor and so forth;
used waters; or industrial fluids. These waters may be contaminated or
polluted, or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the water purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water distribution
system as a result of a cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
   BACKPRESSURE. A pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused by a pump,
elevated tank, boiler or any oilier means that may cause backflow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure in the supply
piping.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of a potable water supply by the introduction
or admission of any foreign substance that degrades the quality and creates a
health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or potential connection between any part of a
potable water system and any other environment containing other substances in a
manner dial, under any circumstances would allow such substances to enter the
potable water system. Other substances may be gases, liquids or solids, such as
chemicals, waste products, steam, water from other sources (potable or non-
potable), or any matter that may change the color or add odor to the water.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS-CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s
premises, where it is physically and economically unfeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer’s water system; or it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or
potential cross-connections shall cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of the cross-connection.
   DOUBLE CHEEK VALVE ASSEMBLY. The approved double check, valve assembly
consists of two internally loaded check valves, either spring loaded or
internally weighted, installed as a unit between two tightly closing resilient-
sealed shut-off valves and fittings with properly located resilient-seated test
cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-health hazard
(that is, a pollutant).
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. A cross-connection or potential cross-connection involving
any substance that could, if introduced in the potable water supply, cause
death, illness, spread disease or have a high probability of causing such
effects.
   HAZARD, NON-HEALTH. A cross-connection or potential cross-connection
involving any substance that generally would not be a health hazard but would
constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, if introduced into the
potable water supply.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing-type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air gap or an
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination that would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution that may
be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or
concentration, such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or plumbing
hazard, if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but not
be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process waters and
used waters originating from the public potable water system that may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and
alkalies; circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower; and/or
cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with
toxic substances; contaminated natural waters, such as wells, springs, streams,
rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, and so forth; oils,
gases, glycerin, paraffins caustic and acid solutions, and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes for firefighting purposes.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance in water that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a non-health hazard or impair the
usefulness of the water.
   REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. The approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly consists of two independently acting
approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically
independent pressure differential relief valve located between the check valves
and below the first check valve. These units are located between two tightly
closing resilient-seated shut-off valves as an assembly and equipped with
properly located resilient-seated test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, that is, where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction and
sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the customer’s
water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection,
then the SERVICE CONNECTION shall mean the downstream of the meter. There
should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of any meter or
backflow prevention assembly located at the point of delivery to the customer’s
water system. SERVICE CONNECTION shall also include water service connection
from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service
connections from the public potable water system.
   WATER COMMISSIONER or HEALTH OFFICIAL. The Public Works Director, Water
Department Superintendent or designee of the city is invested with the
authority and responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross-
connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   WATER, NON-POTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable quality.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water that is safe for human consumption as described by the
public health authority having jurisdiction.
   WATER, USED. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point
of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.15 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
utility system and the customer system.
   (B)   The utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the consumer’s
system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
   (D)   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used for
the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
   (E)   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system that are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 53.16 POLICY.
   (A)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state/provincial laws and regulations and this chapter. Service of
water to any premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow
prevention assembly required by this chapter is not installed, tested and
maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed, bypassed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises.
Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the city water system to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations, exists. When such a condition becomes known,
the city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition(s) in conformance with state/provincial and city
statutes relating to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist.
      (1)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply that is
not or may not be safe bacteriological or chemical quality and that is not
acceptable as an additional source by the city, the public water system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line, appropriate to the degree of
hazard.
      (2)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any other
objectionable substances are handled in such a fashion as to create an actual
or potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line, appropriate lo the degree of
hazard. This shall include the handling process waters and waters originating
from the utility system that have been subject to deterioration in quality.
      (3)   In the case of premises having: internal cross-connections that
cannot be permanently corrected and controlled; or intricate plumbing and
piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross-connections exist, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line.
   (D)   The type of protective assembly required under divisions (C)(1), (C)
(2) and (C)(3) above shall depend upon the degree of hazard that exists as
follows.
      (1)   In the ease of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply is stated in division (C)(1) above, and is not subject to any of the
following rules, the public water system shall protected the an approved air-
gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly.
      (2)   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
      (3)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health that is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential
hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be protected
by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these conditions will
exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
      (4)   In the case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled” cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
      (5)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make
a complete in-plant cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow from these premises by either an approved air-gap
separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises.
      (6)   In the case of any premises where, in the opinion of the city, an
undue health threat is posed because of the presence of extremely toxic
substances, the city may require an air gap at the service connection to
protect the public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of
the city and is dependent on the degree of hazard.
   (E)   Any backflow assembly required herein shall be a model and size
approved by the city. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean
an assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the American Water Works Association titled: AWWA C520-89 -
Standard for Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Assembly, and AWWA C511-89
- Standard for Reduced-Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly, and
have met completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of the
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California established by: Specification of Backflow
Prevention Assemblies § 10 of the most current issue of the Manual of Cross-
Connection Control.
      (1)   Said AWWA and FCCHR standards and specifications have been and are
hereby adopted by the city. Final approval shall be evidenced by a certificate
of approval issued by an approved testing certifying full compliance with said
AWWA standards and FCCHR specifications.
      (2)   The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the city to
test and certify backflow preventors:
         Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
         University of Southern California
         University Park
         Los Angeles, CA 90089
      (3)   Testing laboratories, other than the laboratory listed above, will
be added to an approved list as they are qualified by city.
   (F)   Backflow preventors that may be subjected to backpressure or
backsiphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by said qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory’s
current list of approved backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have
certified inspections and operational tests at least once a year. In those
instances there the city deems the hazard to be great enough, certified
inspections may be required at more frequent intervals. These inspections and
tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by the
assembly manufacturers representative, or by a certified tester approved by the
state and/or the city. It shall be the duty of the city to see that these tests
are made in a timely manner. The customer/user shall notify the city in advance
when tests are to be undertaken so that the city may witness the tests if so
desired. These assemblies shall be installed, repaired, overhauled or replaced
at the expense of the customer/user whenever said assemblies are found to be
defective. Forms shall be made available to each customer/user for their
representative to complete for repairs, inspections, overhauls and installation
by the city.
   (G)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies that do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved assemblies for the
purpose described herein at the time of installation and that have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under division (F) above, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the city is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the utility system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from the
present location, requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the city
finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be
replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements
of this section.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 53.17 VIOLATION.
   Any person or persons violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the second degree, punishable as provided by state statutes.
(Ord. 485, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 54: PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS; POLLUTION
Section
Generally
   
54.01   Purpose and policy
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Abbreviations
   
54.04   Injunctive relief
   
54.05   Civil penalties
   
54.06   Criminal prosecution
   
54.07   Right of entry and confidential information
   
54.08   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
54.09   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
54.10   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
54.11   Remedies nonexclusive
   
54.12   Discharge to natural outlet
   
54.13   Use of flush toilets
   
54.14   Use of pit privy, septic tank, etc.
   
54.15   Connection to public sewer required; exceptions
   
54.16   Unpaid charges to constitute lien
   
54.17   Public access considered available
   
54.18   Malicious damage to system
Prohibited or Limited Discharges
   
54.30   Prohibited discharge standards
   
54.31   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
54.32   State pretreatment standards
   
54.33   Local limits
   
54.34   Dilution
   
54.35   More stringent requirements
   
54.36   Removal credits
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
54.50   Pretreatment facilities
   
54.51   Additional pretreatment measures
   
54.52   Designation of separate sources of constituents
   
54.53   Special agreements
   
54.54   Hauled wastewater
Discharge Permits
   
54.70   Wastewater discharge permit requirement
   
54.71   Wastewater analysis
   
54.72   Existing connections
   
54.73   New connections
   
54.74   Wastewater discharge permit application contents
   
54.75   Terms and conditions specified
   
54.76   Modification of terms and conditions
   
54.77   Transfer
   
54.78   Revocation
   
54.79   Reclassified industrial users
   
54.80   Reissuance
   
54.81   Wastewater hauler discharge permit
   
54.82   Appeals to the director
Reporting Requirements
   
54.100   Monitoring programs and reports by industrial users
   
54.101   Baseline monitoring reports
   
54.102   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
54.103   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
54.104   Periodic compliance reports
   
54.105   Reports from industrial users not subject to categorical standards
   
54.106   Reports from nonpermitted industrial users
   
54.107   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
54.108   Slug discharge control plan
   
54.109   Reports of potential problems
   
54.110   Reports of changed conditions
   
54.111   Recordkeeping
   
54.112   Monitoring, sampling and measuring facilities and equipment
   
54.113   Sampling and analysis
   
54.114   Signatory and certification requirements
   
54.115   Timing
   
54.116   Fees
GENERALLY
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributions into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, and the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403 and Chapter 62-625, Florida
Administrative Code).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
facility (WWF) that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the WWF that will
pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant
biosolids is maintained at a level that allows it to be disposed of in
accordance with the management plan adopted by the facility;
      (4)   To protect both WWF personnel who come in contact with wastewater
and biosolids in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (5)   To provide for fees for equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the WWF;
      (6)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
biosolids from the system; and
      (7)   To enable the city and Bay County to comply with the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit conditions, any biosolids use and
disposal requirements, and any other federal, state and local laws to which the
WWF is subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the customers and users in the city and to
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided
herein, the city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter provides for user reporting and for the regulation of
direct and indirect contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the
issuance of permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement
activities.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
words, terms or phrases, used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated.
      ACT or "THE ACT." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER. 
         (a)   If the IU is a corporation:
            1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of
the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person
who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the IU is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
         (c)   If the IU is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) - (c) above may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the control authority.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPS. Schedules of activities prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in 62-625.400(l)(a) and 625.400(2), F.A.C.
BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, industrial sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed as a
concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions of incubation
for five calendar days at a temperature of 20° centigrade.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an
IU's treatment facility.
      CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). The quantity of oxygen,
expressed as a concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the
carbonaceous biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
conditions of incubation for five calendar days at a temperature of 20°
centigrade.
      CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An IU subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under 62-625.410, F.A.C., including 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N,
Parts 405 through 471, as defined, adopted, and incorporated in Chapter 62-625,
F.A.C.
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c)
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific category of IUs and
which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR COD. A measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Approval Authority, defined hereinabove, or the
city's designated agent if the city has an approved Pretreatment Program under
the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
      CITY. The City of Mexico Beach or the City Council or designated official
or employee of the City of Council.
      CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected officials of the City of Mexico Beach,
Florida.
      DIRECTOR. The city's Public Works Director or his/her designee.
      DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
      DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
      DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater derived principally from dwellings,
business buildings, institutions, and the like; sanitary wastewater; sewage.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation
of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
      FDEP OR FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION. The agency
responsible for pollution control in the State of Florida or the duly
authorized official of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a wastestream without regard to
the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
      GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating waterborne greases
and grease complexes from wastewater and retaining such greases and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS also serve to collect
solids that settle, generated by and from activities that subject IUs to this
section, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. Grease traps and interceptors are sometimes
referred to herein as "grease interceptors".
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE OR DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
WWF from any nondomestic source regulated under F.S. Chapter 403.
      INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of discharge.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. shall mean process and non-process wastewater from
manufacturing, commercial, mining, and silvicultural facilities or activities,
including the runoff and leachate from areas that receive pollutants associated
with industrial or commercial storage, handling or processing, and all other
wastewater not otherwise defined as domestic wastewater. Industrial wastewater
does not include demineralization concentrate as stated in 62-610.865, F.A.C.
      INDUSTRY. Any establishment that uses water in a product or generates
wastewater during any period of production.
      INFLUENT. Wastewater, raw or partially treated, flowing into any
wastewater treatment device or facilities.
      INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to
be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the WWF, its treatment
processes or operations, or its biosolids process, which clearly causes, in
whole or in part, a violation of any requirements of the WWF's NPDES permit or
a permit issued by the State of Florida, or prevents the use or disposal of
biosolids by the WWF in accordance with any federal or state laws, regulations
or permits, or any biosolids management plans.
      LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the
control authority to implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions
listed in §
54.30, 62-604.130, F.A.C, 62-625.400(1)(a), F.A.C, and 62-625.400(2), F.A.C.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
      MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of "daily
discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily
discharges" measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily
discharges" measured during that month.
      MUNICIPAL USER. Any municipality, contributing jurisdiction, or utility
authority that contributes all or a portion of its wastewater to any WWF owned
or operated by the county, regardless of contract or agreement with the county.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards
under Section 307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to such source if
such standards are thereafter promulgated, provided that:
            1.   No other source is located at that site;
            2.   The source totally replaces the process or production
equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
source are substantially independent of an existing source at that site. In
determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the
extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing source, and
the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source, should be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (a)2. and (a)3. of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces
or adds to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   Construction or operation of a new source as defined under this
definition has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
               A.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               B.    Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment that are intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time, but not including options to purchase or contracts that can
be terminated or modified without substantial loss and contracts for
feasibility, engineering and design studies.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the WWF into waters of the United
States containing quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of WWF's NPDES permit, a NPDES permit for a facility operated
by Bay County, or a permit issued by the State of Florida including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
      POLLUTANT(S). Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, wastewater, garbage, domestic wastewater sludge, munitions, medical
wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat,
wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal,
agricultural and industrial wastes; and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, CBOD, COD, toxicity or odor)
that causes or may reasonably expected to cause, alone or in conjunction with
other sources, a violation of the general and specific discharge prohibitions
listed in §
54.30, 62-604.130, F.A.C., 62-625.400(l)(a), F.A.C., and 62-625.400(2), F.A.C.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such
pollutants into the WWF. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other
means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by
an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirements
related to pretreatment imposed on an IU, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS OR PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances that appear in §
54.30.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer owned, operated or controlled by a
governmental or other public agency that is a contributor to the treatment
plant.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any domestic wastewater from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SLU).
         (a)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
         (b)   Any other IU that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of industrial
wastewater into the WWF; or
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
treatment plant, or
            3.   Is designated as significant by the director on the basis that
the IU has a reasonable potential for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement or otherwise adversely affecting the operation of the WWF (in
accordance with 62-625.500(2) (e), F.A.C., as hereby incorporated.
      (c)   Upon a finding that an IU has no reasonable potential for violating
any pretreatment standard or requirement or otherwise adversely affecting the
operation of the WWF, the director may determine that such an IU is not a SIU
in accordance with 62-625.500(2)(e), F.A.C, as hereby incorporated.
      SLUG LOAD OR SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which could cause a violation of the general or specific
discharge prohibitions in §
54.30, or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge which has a
reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any other way
violate the WWF's regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
      SOURCE. Any and all points of origin, building, structure, facility, or
installation, whether privately or publicly owned or operated, from which there
is or may be the discharge of pollutants.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with applicable categorical pretreatment standards
because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the IU. An upset does not
include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. Industrial wastewater and domestic wastewater from any
source, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the WWF.
      WASTEWATER FACILITY (WWF). Any device and system used in the collection,
conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage, industrial
wastewater or other waste, WWF shall include any sewers, intercepting sewers,
clarifiers, outfall sewers, wastewater collection systems, individual systems,
pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances and any extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions or alterations thereof; any elements
essential to provide a reliable recycled supply, such as standby treatment
units and clear well facilities; any works, including land used as an integral
part of the treatment process or for the ultimate disposal of residue resulting
from such treatment; and any other method or system used for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of domestic
wastewater, industrial wastewater or other waste, including wastewater in
combined sewer water and sanitary sewer systems. For the purposes of this
chapter, WWF shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the WWF
from outside of the city that are owned or operated by persons who are, by
contract or agreement with the city, users of the WWF.
      WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. The document or documents issued to an IU by
the city in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      WASTEWATER HAULER. Any person, partnership, unit of government or
corporation engaged in transporting wastewater as a commercial venture or as a
public service.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the WWF
that is designed to provide treatment of municipal domestic wastewater and
industrial wastewater.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.03 ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      (1)   BMP - Best Management Practice;
      (2)   BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand;
      (3)   CBOD - Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand;
      (4)   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations;
      (5)   COD - Chemical oxygen demand;
      (6)   EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency;
      (7)   F.A.C. - Florida Administrative Code;
      (8)   FDEP - Florida Department of Environmental Protection;
      (9)   F.S. - Florida Statutes;
      (10)   gpd - gallons per day;
      (11)   IU - Industrial User;
      (12)   l - liter;
      (13)   mg - milligrams;
      (14)   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;
      (15)   WWF - Wastewater facility;
      (16)   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;
      (17)   SIU - Significant Industrial User;
      (18)   SNC - Significant Noncompliance;
      (19)   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act;
      (20)   TSS - Total suspended solids;
      (21)   U.S.C. - United States Code;
      (22)   ug - micrograms; and
      (23)   WWF - Wastewater Facility.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.04 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a person has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, any order or permit issued under this chapter or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the city, through the city's attorney,
may petition the Circuit Court of Bay County for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as may be appropriate, to restrain the person from
violating such provision, order, permit standard or requirement or to compel
the specific performance of the provision, permit, order, standard or
requirement. Such other action as may be appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief may also be sought by the city. A petition for injunctive relief shall
not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a
person.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.05 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter, any order or permit issued under this chapter or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable for a maximum civil
penalty of $500 per violation per day. In the case of a monthly or other long-
term average pretreatment standard, penalties shall accrue for each business
day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The city may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the persons' violation, corrective actions by
the person, the compliance history of the person and any other factor as
justice requires.
   (D)   Where appropriate, the city may accept mitigation projects in lieu of
the payment of civil penalties where the project provides a valuable service to
county and the persons' expense in undertaking the project is at least 150% of
the civil penalty.
   (E)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a person.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.06 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person that knowingly or willfully violates any provision of this
chapter, any order or permit issued under this chapter or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500 per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
   (B)   A person who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the WWF which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500, or be
subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. This penalty shall
be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property
damage available under state law.
   (C)   Any person that knowingly or willfully makes any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other documentation filed or required to be maintained under any provision of
this chapter or wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this chapter,
or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring
device or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 per violation per day or
imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Right of entry.
      (1)   The director and other authorized representatives of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to immediately
enter all IUs; premises at reasonable hours to determine whether the IU is
complying with all standard requirements of this chapter and any wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Industrial users shall allow the
director and other authorized representatives of the city ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, copying,
measurement or conducting surveys, sampling in accordance with this chapter,
examining reports and records required by this chapter or by the director in
accordance with this chapter and any other duties necessary to monitor and
enforce compliance with this chapter. The director shall have the right to set
up on the IU's property, or require installation of, such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the IU's operations.
      (2)   Entry shall normally be made during daylight or operating hours.
However, the right is reserved for the director to enter the IU's premises at
any hour of any day the director or other authorized representative of the city
deems necessary as a result of abnormal or emergency circumstances. While
performing necessary work on the IU's premises, the director or other
authorized representative of the city shall observe all reasonable safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the IU, and the IU shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees, and the city shall
indemnify the IU against loss or damage to its property and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
IU, except as such may be caused by willful acts, negligence or failure of the
IU to maintain safe conditions.
      (3)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the IU
at the written or verbal request of the director and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the IU.
      (4)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the director and authorized
representatives of the city access to the IU's premises shall be a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the director or other authorized representative of
the city has been refused access to a building, structure or property, or any
part thereof, and the director or city is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the director may seek issuance of a search
warrant from the Circuit Court of Bay County.
   (c)   Confidential information. Information and data on an IU obtained from
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs
and inspection and sampling activities by the city and the director shall be
available to the public without restriction unless the IU specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the director that the release
of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under federal or state law.
In addition, the director and the city shall be subject to any confidentiality
requirements established under the laws of the State of Florida.
      (1)   Effluent information and data provided to the control authority in
accordance with 62-625.800(2), F.A.C. shall be available to the public without
restriction.
      (2)   When requested and demonstrated by the IU furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report that
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES
program and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.08 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The director shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the city a list of the IUs which, during the previous 12 months,
were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (B)   The term "SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE" shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of the wastewater measurements taken for each
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limit;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of the wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits
multiplied by the applicable criteria TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils
and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
(daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit or narrative standard)
that the director determines has caused, alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the health of
the county WWF personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the director's exercise
of his/her emergency authority under §
54.09(G) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 calendar days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an agreement with the director,
compliance orders, wastewater discharge permit, or other enforcement order for
starting construction, completing construction or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 calendar days after the due date, any
reports required by this Code or orders or permits issued under this chapter,
including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports and reports
on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation(s), including a violation of best management
practices, which the director determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.09 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Voluntary program. Should an IU present to the director, at any time
prior to being required to do so, information, data, plans, schedules and the
like relating to a proposed procedure for the prevention of discharges in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the director may receive such
material and initiate procedures for the preparation of an agreement under
division (C). The presentation of material to the director, the acceptance of
such material by the director or commencement of procedures for the issuance of
an agreement shall not prevent the director from issuing any notice of
violation under division (B), nor does it exempt any IU from the provisions of
this chapter. An IU-initiated voluntary program meets the definition of "good
faith effort."
   (B)   Notification of violation. Whenever the director finds that any IU has
violated or is violating a provision of this chapter, any order or permit
issued under this chapter, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
the director may serve upon the IU a written notice of violation. Within ten
calendar days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation
and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted to the director. Submission of
this plan in no way relieves the IU of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section
shall limit the authority of the director to take emergency action without
first issuing a notice of violation.
   (C)   Agreements. The director is hereby empowered to enter into agreements,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the IU responsible for noncompliance. Such agreements include
specific action to be taken by the IU to correct the noncompliance within a
time period also specified by the agreement. Agreements shall have the same
force and effect as administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions (E) and
(F) and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (D)   Show cause hearing. The city may order any IU that causes or
contributes to a violation of any provision of this chapter, any order or
permit issued under this chapter or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement to appear before the director and show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the IU
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action and a request that the IU show cause why this
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten calendar days prior to the meeting. Such notice may be
served on any authorized representative of the IU. Whether or not the IU
appears as noticed, immediate enforcement action may be pursued following the
meeting date. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the IU.
   (E)   Compliance orders. When the director finds that an IU has violated or
is violating any provision of this chapter, any order or permit issued under
this chapter or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, he may issue an
order to the IU responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders may also contain such other requirements
as might be reasonable necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the WWF. Furthermore, the
director may continue to require such additional self-monitoring for at least
90 calendar days after consistent compliance has been achieved, after which
time the self-monitoring conditions in the discharge permit shall control. A
compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the
IU of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance
of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking
any other action against the IU.
   (F)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the director finds that an IU has violated or is violating any
provision of this chapter, any order or permit issued under this chapter or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director may issue an order to
the IU to cease and desist any and all such violations and direct the IU to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Such IU shall be notified of the director's remedial or preventive
action and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (D) why the
proposed action should not be taken.
      (3)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the IU.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The director or his/her designee shall have authority to
immediately suspend the wastewater discharge permit of an IU for a period not
to exceed 30 calendar days whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge that reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons,
interferes with the operation of the treatment plant or which presents or may
present an endangerment to the environment.
      (2)   In accordance with 62-625.500(2) (a)5.b, F.A.C, the director or
his/her designee shall have authority and procedures to immediately and
effectively halt any discharge to the WWF which endangers public health or
welfare or which threatens to interfere with the operation of the WWF. Notice
shall be provided to the IU prior to such action. If public health or welfare
are not endangered, the IU shall be given an opportunity to respond to the
notice. Any IU notified of a suspension of its wastewater discharge permit
shall immediately terminate or eliminate its contribution. In the event of an
IU's failure to immediately comply with the suspension order, the director
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the treatment plant, its
receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The director shall allow
the IU to recommence its discharge when the IU has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the director that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
termination or revocation proceedings pursuant to this chapter are initiated
against the IU.
      (3)   An IU that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement to
the director describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence prior to the date of any show cause or
injunctive relief hearing under division (D) and §
54.04, respectively.
   (H)   (1)   Termination of service. In addition to the provisions in §
54.09(G), any IU who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
         (a)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the IU's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in this chapter.
      (2)   Such IU will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (D) why
the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
director shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the IU.
   (I)   Administrative fines. The City Council, upon recommendation by the
Public Works Director, may impose administrative fines upon non-compliant IUs.
An administrative fine is a monetary penalty assessed by the control authority
for violations of pretreatment standards and requirements. These fines are
punitive in nature and are not related to a specific cost borne by the county.
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the IU.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.10 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with pretreatment standards if the requirements of
division (A)(2), below, are met.
      (2)   An IU who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the IU can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The IU has submitted the following information to the director
within 24-hours of becoming aware of this upset:
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue;
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance; and
            4.   If this information is provided orally, a written submission
must be provided within five calendar days.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the IU seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Industrial users will have the opportunity for a judicial
determination on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for
noncompliance with pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Industrial users shall control production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   General/specific prohibitions. An IU shall have an affirmative defense
to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the general
prohibitions in §
54.30(A) and the specific prohibitions in §
54.30(B)(1) - (7), (9), (10) and (12) - (18) if it can prove that it did not
know or have reason to know that its discharge would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged that caused the
pass through or interference and the IU was in compliance with each limit
directly prior to and during the pass through or interference, or
      (2)   No applicable local limit exists, but the discharge directly prior
to and during the pass through or interference, did not change substantially in
nature or constituents from the IU's prior discharge activity when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the case of interference,
with applicable biosolids use or disposal requirements. This defense does not
apply to the specific prohibitions in §
54.30(B)(l), (2), (8) and (11).
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   "SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE" means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources that can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   Permissible bypass. An IU may allow any bypass to occur which does
not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
is also for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses
are not subject to the provision of divisions (A)(3) and (4) of this section.
      (3)   Notice.
         (a)   If an IU knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the director, at least ten calendar days before the date
of the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   An IU shall submit oral notice to the director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five calendar days of the time the IU becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause, the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and time and,
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue. The submission shall also contain steps taken or planned to reduce,
eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The director may waive the
written submission on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received
within 24 hours.
      (4)   Prohibited bypass.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the director may take an enforcement
action against an IU for a bypass, unless:
            1.   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal period of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
            3.   The IU submitted notices as required under division (C)(3).
         (b)   The director may approve an anticipated bypass after considering
its adverse effects if the director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (C)(4)(a).
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.11 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this ordinance are not exclusive. The director
may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
IU. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with
the control authority's enforcement response plan. However, the director may
take other action against any IU when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
director is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant IU.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.12 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any natural outlet
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.13 USE OF FLUSH TOILETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of human excrement
except in a flush toilet.
   (B)   All premises designed for human use and/or occupancy shall be
provided, by the owner thereof, with at least one flush toilet which shall be
maintained in sanitary working condition at all times with sufficient running
water under pressure to flush the toilet clean after each use.
   (C)   Every flush toilet shall be connected to a public sewer where
available or to an approved private wastewater disposal system. Flush toilets
shall be provided at all times with sufficient running water under pressure to
flush the toilet clean after each use.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.14 USE OF PIT PRIVY, SEPTIC TANK, ETC.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any pit privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of any wastewater.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.15 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   The owner of all establishments, as defined herein, whether such be for
purposes of human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the city and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the city, is hereby required, at his expense, to install
suitable flush toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within the time period specified by written notice from the city to do
so. All connections to the public sewer shall be made in accordance with the
rules and regulations that shall be adopted from time to time by the city. All
sinks, dishwashing machines, lavatories, basins, shower baths, bathtubs,
laundry tubs, washing machines, and similar plumbing fixtures or appliances
shall be connected to the public sewer; provided, that where no sewer is
available, septic tanks or other private subsurface disposal facilities,
approved by the health officer and mayor and Council may be used. The following
shall constitute exceptions to the mandatory connection requirement:
      (A)   No connection or connections shall be required where the public
sewer is more than 100 feet from the property line of an owner utilizing a
septic tank. Before commencement of construction of a septic tank, the owner
shall obtain prior written approval from the city that the use of a septic tank
falls within this exception and meet all applicable permit requirements.
      (B)   No connection or connections shall be required of any person who
owns or operates a private sewer system utility that provides wastewater or
sewer treatment services to any establishment, and that is existing and
operating on the effective date of this chapter, if said person can show that
the operation of the private sewer system utility does not endanger the public
health, safety, and welfare. A valid state Department of Environmental
Protection permit and evidence that the operation of the private sewer system
utility is in compliance with all state Department of Environmental Protection
standards, shall be prima facie evidence that said private sewer system utility
is operating in a manner that does not endanger the public health, safety, and
welfare. Any person who owns or operates a private sewer system utility shall
allow the city to inspect said utility at reasonable times and in a reasonable
manner and shall furnish such information as may be requested by the city
sufficient to show said utility is operating in a manner so as to not endanger
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.16 UNPAID CHARGES TO CONSTITUTE LIEN.
   Any unpaid charges for sewer service imposed hereunder and any unpaid fines
or other assessments imposed hereunder shall constitute a lien on the property
served by the sewer. Such lien shall be perfected by filing of a notice of
claim by the city in the office of the clerk of the circuit setting forth the
description of the property, the name of the owner according to the last
completed tax roll and the amount of the claim. Such lien shall continue in
force for a period of five years from the date of filing.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.17 PUBLIC ACCESS CONSIDERED AVAILABLE.
   Public sewer access shall be considered available:
   (A)   To an existing single-family dwelling, when the dwelling can be
connected by gravity flow to a line in a public right-of-way or easement which
passes the property at any point.
   (B)   To any new single-family dwelling, when the dwelling can be connected
by the installation of not more than 100 linear feet of gravity flow line from
the nearest point of the property.
   (C)   Customer shall be notified when sewer is available.
   (D)   Sewer charges shall be in effect upon notification of the availability
of sewer service.
   (E)   The City Council will define the availability of sewers and costs
associated with sewer permits or construction.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.18 MALICIOUS DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct and shall be responsible for any loss of revenue or monetary
expenditures needed for repairs brought about by their actions. Nothing
contained herein shall act to prohibit the prosecution of any person under any
other applicable statute or ordinance for such acts.
PROHIBITED AND LIMITED DISCHARGES
§ 54.30 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No person shall contribute or cause to be
contributed directly or indirectly, into the WWF any pollutant or wastewater
that causes pass through or interference. These general prohibitions and the
specific prohibitions in division (B) below apply to all sources of discharge
to the WWF whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment
standards or any other federal, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No person shall discharge or permit the
discharge or infiltration into the WWF of any of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants that create a fire or explosion hazard into the WWF.
      (2)   Wastewater having a property capable of causing hazard, damage or
any other condition deleterious to structures, equipment, personnel, treatment
processes or operation of the WWF, and in no case, wastewater that causes the
pH at the introduction into the WWF to fall below 5.0 unless the WWF is
specifically designed to accommodate such discharges.
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances, or substances that will become solid
or viscous within the WWF, in amounts that will cause obstruction of the flow
in the WWF and resulting in interference.
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants will cause interference
with the WWF.
      (5)   Heat in amounts that will inhibit biological activity in the WWF
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that result
in the discharge of the WWF to exceed 104 °F (40 °C) unless the approval
authority, upon request of the WWF, approves alternate temperature limits in
accordance with 62-302.520 F.A.C.
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (7)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the WWF in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the director in accordance with §
54.54.
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair.
      (10)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable federal or state regulations.
      (11)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the director.
      (12)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from the treatment or pretreatment of municipal wastes.
      (13)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the director
in a wastewater discharge permit.
      (14)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      (15)   Aqueous Film-Forming Foam (AFFF), fire-fighting foam,
fluorosurfactants, detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances that
might cause, alone or in conjunction with other sources, interference or
excessive foaming in the WWF.
      (16)   Use of nitrate- based chemicals to control odors within the
collection system.
      (17)   Industrial wastewater containing organic solvents. Industrial
users having organic solvents on site shall provide and use a separate
collection and disposal system outside the sewer system and shall provide
safeguards against their accidental discharge to the sewer.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the WWF.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.31 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
the conditions in 62-625.410(4), F.A.C., as hereby incorporated.
   (C)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the director may
convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual IUs in accordance
with conditions in 62-625.410(4), F.A.C.
   (D)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewaters other than those regulated by the same standard,
alternative discharge limits shall be derived by the control authority or by
the IU with the written concurrence of the control authority in accordance with
62-625.410(6), F.A.C. as hereby incorporated.
   (E)   The director may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual IUs.
The conversion is at the discretion of the director and shall follow the
provisions of 62-625.410(4)(i), F.A.C. and 40 CFR 403.6(d), (c)(7), (c)(8) and
(c)(9).
   (F)   An IU may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the IU can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
62-625.700, F.A.C, as hereby incorporated, that factors relating to its
discharge are fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when
developing the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (G)   Equivalent limitations calculated in accordance with 62-625.410(4) are
deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of Section 307(d) of the Clean
Water Act and this chapter. The control authority shall document how the
equivalent limits were derived and make this information available in the IU's
file for public review. Once incorporated into its permit, the IU must comply
with the equivalent limitations in lieu of the categorical pretreatment
standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (H)   Any IU operating under a permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits calculated from a production based standard shall notify
the control authority within two business days after the IU has a reasonable
basis to know that the production level will change more than 205within the
next calendar month. Any industrial user not notifying the control authority of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its control mechanism that were based on the original estimate of the
long-term average production rate.
   (I)   An IU may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 62-625.820, F.A.C., as hereby incorporated.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.32 STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Industrial users are required to comply with Florida pretreatment standards
and requirements set forth in Chapter 62-625, F.A.C.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.33 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing pollutants in excess
of the local limits for those pollutants that have been established for any WWF
the city uses in Bay County using standard procedures, calculations and methods
acceptable to FDEP to protect against pass through and interference, protection
of WWF employees, and adverse effects on wastewater residuals disposal. No IU
shall discharge process waste streams, unregulated waste streams or dilute
wastestreams in excess of the concentrations set forth by the director. Local
limits shall be included as permit conditions and attached to each wastewater
discharge permit issued.
   (B)   The established local limits are subject to change and shall be
modified as needed based on regulatory requirements and standards, WWF
operation, performance and processes, the IU base, potable water quality and
domestic wastewater characteristics. Modifications to the established local
limits must be reviewed and approved by FDEP prior to implementation.
Implementation shall be effective 30 calendar days from notice of acceptance of
the modified limits by FDEP. Permitted IUs shall also be issued an addendum to
their wastewater discharge permit containing the new local limits.
   (C)   The established local limits apply at the point where the wastewater
is discharged to the WWF. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. At his or her discretion, the director
may impose mass limitations in addition to or in place of the concentration-
based limitations. The director may also develop best management practices
(BMPs) in individual wastewater discharge permits to implement local limits and
the requirements of §
54.30.
   (D)   A copy of the approved local limits is available upon request from the
city's Public Works Director or from the Bay County Utility Services
Administrative office located at 3410 Transmitter Road, Panama City, FL 32404.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.34 DILUTION.
   Except where expressly authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment
standard or requirement, no IU shall increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation. The
director may impose mass limitations on IUs who are using dilution to meet
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.35 MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the WWF consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.36 REMOVAL CREDITS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the city shall have the
authority to grant removal credits pursuant to 62-625.420, F.A.C., as hereby
incorporated.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 54.50 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Industrial users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
54.30 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the director,
whichever is the more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall
be provided, operated and maintained at the IU's expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
director for review and shall be acceptable to the director before such
facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the IU from the responsibility of modifying such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the county under
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.51 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the director may require IUs to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate domestic wastewater wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the WWF
and determine the IU's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The director may require any person discharging into the WWF to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.52 DESIGNATION OF SEPARATE SOURCES OF CONSTITUENTS.
   (A)   Firm with multiple buildings. Where a business or industrial firm is
operating as an integrated manufacturing complex, involving more than one
building and having separate sewer connections within the same contributory
area, such firm may be considered as one unit with multiple sewers.
   (B)   A block and lot with multiple buildings. Where a parcel of real
property consisting of one block and lot is occupied by multiple buildings
having tenants with unrelated manufacturing processes, each building shall be
considered a separate source of constituents.
   (C)   Multi-tenanted industrial buildings. Where a parcel of real property
consisting of one block and lot, or lots, is occupied by a multi-tenanted
industrial building connected to the WWF by one or more sewers and the tenants
in said building discharge wastewater into the drainage system, each tenant
shall be considered a separate source of constituents and the constituent
concentration shall be determined at sampling locations selected by the
director for each source.
   (D)   Industrial park or industrial building complex. Where a parcel of real
property consists of more than one block and lot, and one or more buildings on
said parcel occupy a single block, each such building or buildings may be
considered a block and lot with multiple buildings and the constituent
concentration discharged from said building or buildings to the WWF shall be
determined as prescribed under division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Tenant activities. Any tenant of such real property as described in
divisions (A) - (D) of this section shall comply with all of the rules and
regulations of this chapter.
   (F)   Except as provided in §
54.52, domestic wastewater mixed with industrial wastewater prior to discharge
to the WWF shall be industrial wastewater for the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.53 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement between the city, the county and any user of the WWF whereby
a wastewater of unusual strength or character may be accepted into the WWF
subject to agreement between the two parties. No such agreement, however, shall
be made that would allow the influent to the WWF to adversely affect operation
of the treatment plant. The terms and conditions of such agreement are subject
to change by the director during the life of the agreement as required for
changes to NPDES permit limitations or limitations contained in permits issued
by the State of Florida. Notification of such changes will be made similar to
permit modifications as outlined in §
54.76.
   (B)   In no case (except for the formal grant of removal credits) will a
special agreement waive compliance with any pretreatment standard. However, the
IU may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical pretreatment standard in
accordance with 62625.820, F.A.C, as hereby incorporated. Industrial users may
also request a variance from the categorical pretreatment standards from the
EPA. Such a request will be approved only if the IU can prove that factors
relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from the factors
considered by EPA when establishing that categorical pretreatment standard. An
IU requesting a fundamentally different factor variance must comply with the
procedural and substantive provisions in 62-625.700, F.A.C, as incorporated in
§
54.31(E).
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the IU when, in
the opinion of the director they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. Interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the director and shall be so
located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors
shall be inspected regularly and cleaned, as needed by the IU at their expense.
Wastewater from any source requiring installation of a trap, interceptor, and/
or separator, per Chapter 10 of the Florida Plumbing Code (as may be amended
from time to time) may be considered industrial wastewater for the purpose of
this chapter.
   (D)   Industrial users with the potential to discharge flammable substances
may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.54 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the WWF only at locations
designated by the director and at such times as are established by the
director. Such waste shall not violate §
54.30 or any other requirements established by the city. The director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The director may require generators of hauled septage or industrial
waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The director also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Septage and industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at
locations designated by the director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the director. The director may collect samples of each hauled load
to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The director may require the
industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to
discharge.
   (D)   Septage and industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking
form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and
address of the industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification,
names and addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of
waste. The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 54.70 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No SIU shall discharge wastewater into the WWF without first obtaining
a wastewater discharge permit from the director, except that any SIU who was
discharging wastewater into the WWF prior to the effective date of this chapter
that has filed a timely application pursuant to §
54.74 may continue to discharge until the permit has been issued by the
director.
   (B)   The director may require other IUs to obtain wastewater discharge
permits necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a wastewater discharge
permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject the wastewater
discharge permittee to the enforcement provisions set forth in §§
54.04 through
54.06 and §§
54.08 through
54.09. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligations to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law and
regulation.
   (D)   The director shall have authority to deny new or increased
contributions of pollutants, or changes in the nature of pollutants, to the WWF
by IUs where such contributions do not meet applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements or where such contributions would cause the WWF to violate its
NPDES permit.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.71 WASTEWATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the director, an IU must submit information on the nature
and characteristics of its wastewater within 45 calendar days of the request.
The director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require IUs to update this information.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.72 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any IU required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who was discharging
wastewater into the WWF prior to the effective date of this chapter and who
wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within 60 calendar
days after said date, apply to the director for a wastewater discharge permit
in accordance with §
54.74, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the WWF to continue after 180
calendar days of the effective date of this chapter except as provided in §
54.19.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.73 NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any IU required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or commence discharging into the WWF must obtain such permit prior to the
beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this wastewater
discharge permit, in accordance with §
54.74, must be filed at least 90 calendar days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.74 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   All IUs seeking a wastewater discharge permit must submit a permit
application accompanied by any applicable fees. The applicant shall be required
to submit, where applicable, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation,
information including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Identifying information. The name and address of the:
      (1)   Facility, including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises;
   (B)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
   (C)   Description of operations.
      (1)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such IU. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the WWF from the regulated
processes.
      (2)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the WWF;
      (3)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location, and
elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (6)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (7)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
   (D)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the WWF from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 62-625.410(6), F.A.C.
   (E)   Measurement of pollutants.
      (1)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated
process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing sources.
      (2)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the control
authority, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
      (3)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations,
or mass, where required, shall be reported.
      (4)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be
analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
54.113. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the IU shall submit documentation as required by the
director or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
      (5)   All sampling and analysis required by this chapter shall be
performed in accordance with procedures set out in §
54.113.
   (F)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge in accordance with 62-625.600(4)(b)., F.A.C.
   (G)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the director to
evaluate the permit application.
   (H)   Within 30 calendar days of the submittal of an application, the
director will evaluate the data furnished by the IU and may require additional
information. Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the IU for revision. Within 30 calendar days of the receipt
of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the director will
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. If the
director determines to issue a wastewater discharge permit, he shall issue a
draft wastewater discharge permit within 30 calendar days of such
determination. A 30-day comment period shall be allowed for all IUs and 30
calendar days thereafter the director shall issue a wastewater discharge
permit, if all of the terms and conditions herein are complied with.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.75 TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED.
   (A)   A wastewater discharge permit must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is not
transferable without prior authorization by the city according to the
provisions found in §
54.77. A copy of the existing permit will be provided to the new operator or
owner.
      (3)   Discharge limits based on applicable pretreatment standards
including best management practices and any other limits the director deems
necessary to prevent pass through and interference;
      (4)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
54.104(F).
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the director will be included
as a condition in the IU's permit.
      (7)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state and local law;
      (8)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
director to be necessary; and
      (9)   A signature and certification in accordance with §
54.114.
   (B)   A wastewater discharge permit may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the WWF;
      (3)   Requirement for the development and implementation of a toxic
organic management plan (TOMP), including control measures to prevent entry of
toxic organics and other solvents into the sanitary sewer system;
      (4)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions, including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine
discharges;
      (5)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the WWF;
      (6)   The unit charge or schedule of IU charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the WWF;
      (7)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (8)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (9)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the director to ensure
compliance with this chapter and federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Permit duration. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a
period less than a year or may be stated to expire on a specified date.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.76 MODIFICATION OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The director may modify a wastewater discharge permit for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, including any such standard established
in a federal or state permit;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the IU's
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the WWF that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the WWF, city or county personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 62-625.700, F.A.C, as incorporated in §
54.31(F);
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit;
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator; or
      (10)   Revision of or a grant of a removal credit pursuant to 62-625.420,
F.A.C, as incorporated in §
54.36.
   (B)   Whenever possible, permittees shall be informed of any proposed
changes in permits at least 90 calendar days prior to the effective date of the
change. Permittees shall be allowed a comment period relating to any of the
proposed changes in the permit. This comment period shall be the first 45
calendar days of the 90-day period prior to the effective date of the change.
Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.77 TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 calendar days advance notice
to the director and the director approves the wastewater discharge permit
transfer. The notice to the director must include a written certification by
the new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer until reinstated by
the director.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.78 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The director or the city may only revoke a wastewater discharge permit
for good cause. Good cause includes, but is not limited to any of, the
following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to provide prior notification to the director of changed
conditions, including significant changes to the quantity and quality of
wastewater discharge, pursuant to §
54.110;
      (2)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (3)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (4)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (5)   Refusing to allow the director timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (6)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
      (8)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility;
      (9)   Failure to meet IU effluent limitations;
      (10)   Failure to pay fines;
      (11)   Failure to pay sewer charges; or
      (12)   Violating any provision of this chapter, any order, agreement, or
wastewater discharge permit issued under this chapter or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operation. All wastewater discharge permits issued to a particular IU are void
upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit to that IU.
   (C)   The director shall not revoke a discharge permit without first
delivering to the permittee written notice of such revocation. The notice shall
state the reason or reasons for the revocation.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.79 RECLASSIFIED INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   Any IU that is reclassified as a SIU and discharges industrial wastewater
into the WWF after the effective date of this chapter and who wishes to
continue such discharges in the future, shall, within 90 calendar days after
said date, apply to the city for a wastewater discharge permit. Such SIUs shall
not cause or allow discharges to the system to continue after 180 calendar days
of the effective date of becoming reclassified as an SIU, except in accordance
with a permit issued by the director.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.80 REISSUANCE.
   An IU with an expiring wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete application
letter, in accordance with §
54.74, a minimum of 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of the IU's
existing wastewater discharge permit. If the IU's existing permit expires after
a completed application for reissuance has been submitted to the director in
accordance with this section, the director shall allow the IU to continue to
discharge under the existing permit until a final decision is made on the IU's
application for reissuance.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.81 WASTEWATER HAULER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   Wastewater haulers shall discharge all septage and other permitted
wastewaters at the designated wastewater hauler dumping stations established by
the director.
   (B)   Wastewater haulers shall have a valid wastewater hauler discharge
permit before discharging wastewaters into the WWF. Each permitted wastewater
hauling vehicle shall prominently display a number issued by the department of
health on both doors of the vehicle cab (or trailer in the case of tractor-
trailers). Such numbers shall be removable only by destruction. Decals for this
purpose will be provided by the department of health to each wastewater hauler.
   (C)   Each wastewater hauling vehicle shall be equipped to use the quick
disconnect couplers at the wastewater hauler dumping station.
   (D)   Representative samples of wastewater from each load received at the
WWF for treatment shall comply with pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (E)   Each load delivered to the wastewater dumping station must have a
wastewater hauler manifest properly filled out and presented to the operator on
duty. Each manifest will be signed by the authorized representative of the
wastewater hauling company.
   (F)   All procedures for discharging, for cleanliness and for general
sanitary operation on county property as prescribed by the director shall be
strictly adhered to by all wastewater haulers delivering wastewaters to the WWF
dumping stations.
   (G)   The source or sources of all wastewaters being hauled to the WWF shall
be properly documented using the county utility services department manifest
system.
   (H)   Domestic wastewater shall not be mixed with from an industrial
wastewater. Vehicles hauling wastewater from an IU shall not be used to haul
domestic wastewater for disposal at the WWF.
   (I)   In addition to the enforcement provisions in §§
54.04 through
54.06 and §§
54.08 and
54.09, failure of a wastewater hauler to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be grounds for revocation of the hauler's discharge permit by the
director.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.82 APPEALS TO THE DIRECTOR.
   The director shall provide public notice of the issuance of a permit. Any
person subject to any provision of this chapter may petition the director to
reconsider a decision concerning the issuance, modification, transfer or
revocation of a permit, within 30 calendar days of notice of its issuance, or
to reconsider any other action by the director taken pursuant to this chapter,
within 30 calendar days of notice of that action.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for the objection and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to place in the permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of permit or permit provision shall be stayed
pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the director fails to act within 30 calendar days, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
permit or other action, not to issue a permit or not to modify a permit shall
be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
   (E)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of a final administrative
decision must do so by filing a complaint with the Circuit Court of Bay County
within 60 calendar days after issuance of that decision.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 54.100 MONITORING PROGRAMS AND REPORTS BY INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   The director may require IUs to provide such technical or monitoring
programs, including the submission of periodic reports, as he deems necessary;
provided, however, that the burden, including costs, of such programs and
reports shall bear a reasonable relationship to the need for the report and the
benefits to be obtained therefrom.
   (B)   The monitoring program may require the IU to conduct a sampling and
analysis program of a frequency and type specified by the director to
demonstrate compliance with prescribed wastewater discharge limits. The IU may
either:
      (1)   Conduct his/her own sampling and analysis program, provided he/she
demonstrates to the director that he/she has the necessary certifications,
qualifications and facilities to perform the work; or
      (2)   Engage a private, certified laboratory, approved by the director.
   (C)   If sampling performed by an IU indicates a violation, the IU shall
notify the director within 24-hours of becoming aware of the violation. The IU
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis within 15 calendar days of becoming
aware of the violation and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the WWF
within 30 calendar days after becoming aware of the violation, except an IU is
not required to resample if:
      (1)   The WWF performs sampling at the IU at a frequency of at least once
per month; or
      (2)   The WWF performs sampling at the IU between the time when the IU
performs its initial sampling and the time when the IU receives the results of
this sampling.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.101 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 calendar days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard or the final administrative decision made
upon a category determination submission under 62-625.410(2)(d), F.A.C, as
hereby incorporated, whichever is later, existing IUs subject to categorical
pretreatment standards currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to
the WWF shall submit to the director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. When reports containing this information have
already been submitted to the director, the IU will not be required to submit
this information again. At least 90 calendar days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical industrial
users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard, shall submit to the director a report that contains the information
listed in divisions (B)(10) - (5) below, giving estimates of the information
requested in divisions (B)(4) and (5). A new source shall also report the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
pretreatment standards.
   (B)   Industrial users described above shall submit the information set
forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operators and owners.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such IU. This description should include a
schematic process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the WWF from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the WWF from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 62-625.410(6), F.A.C. The director may allow for
verifiable estimates of these flows where justified by cost or feasibility
considerations.
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The IU shall provide the information required in §
54.74(A)(7) and comply with the sampling and analysis requirements in §
54.113.
         (b)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the WWF.
         (c)   The director may allow the submission of a baseline report that
utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures and the
historical data is representative of the current discharge.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the IU's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional O&M and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
IU will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date in
this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set for in §
54.102.
         (a)   Where the IU's categorical pretreatment standard has been
modified by a removal allowance (62-625.420, F.A.C, as incorporated in §
54.36), the combined waste stream formula (62-625.410(6), F.A.C, as
incorporated in §
54.31(C)) and/or a fundamentally different factors variance (62-625.700, F.A.C,
as incorporated in § 54.31(C)) at the time the IU submits the report required
by division (A) this section, the information required by division (B)(6) and
(7) of this section shall pertain to the modified limits.
         (b)   If the categorical pretreatment standard is modified by a
removal allowance (62-625.420, F.A.C., as incorporated in Section 54-25), the
combined wastestream formula (62-625.410(6), F.A.C., as incorporated in §
54.31(C)) and/or a fundamentally different factors variance (62-625.700,
F.A.C., as incorporated in § 54.31(C)) after the IU submits the report required
by division (A) of this section, any necessary amendments to the information
requested by divisions (B)(6) and (7) of this section shall be submitted by the
IU to the director within 60 calendar days after the modified limit is
approved.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
54.114.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.102 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
54.101(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the IU to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. Such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components and commencing and completing construction.
   (B)   No increment referred to in division (A) above shall exceed nine
months.
   (C)   The IU shall submit a progress report to the director no later than 14
calendar days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, at a minimum, whether or not the IU complied with the
increment of progress to be met on that date, and, if not, the date it expects
to comply, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the IU to return
to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the director.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.103 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   (A)   Within 90 calendar days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the WWF, any IU
subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
director a report containing the information described in §
54.101(B)(4) through (6).
   (B)   For all IUs subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation), this report shall contain the IU's actual production during the
appropriate sampling period.
   (C)   For IUs subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits established
in accordance with the procedures in 62-625.410(4), F.A.C, as hereby
incorporated, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the IU's long-
term production rate.
   (D)   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
54.114.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.104 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any IU subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of that pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source,
after commencement of the discharge into the WWF, shall submit to the director
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the director, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by such
categorical pretreatment standards, and a reasonable measure of the IU's long-
term production rate. If an IU is subject to categorical standards with only
production-based limits, actual average production rate data for the reporting
period must be given. In addition, this report shall include a record of
measures or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period
for the discharge reported in §
54.101(B)(4) except that the director may require more detailed reporting of
flows. At the discretion of the director and in consideration of such factors
as the local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the
director may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the IU must
submit documentation required by the director or the pretreatment standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the IU.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the IU's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of an IU to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the IU to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of
its discharge.
   (C)   If an IU subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors
any pollutant more frequently than required by the director using the
procedures prescribed in §
54.113, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports shall be based upon data obtained through
appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period covered by the
report, which data is representative of conditions occurring during the
reporting period. The director shall require that frequency of monitoring
necessary to assess and assure compliance by IUs with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (E)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
54.114.
   (F)   The city may authorize the IU subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard to waive sampling of a pollutant regulated by a categorical
pretreatment standard if the IU demonstrates the following through sampling and
other technical factors:
      (1)   The pollutant is neither present nor expected to be present in the
discharge, or the pollutant is present only at background levels from intake
water and without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the IU;
and
      (2)   The pollutant is determined to be present solely due to sanitary
wastewater discharged from the facility provided that the sanitary wastewater
is not regulated by an applicable categorical standard and otherwise includes
no process wastewater.
   (G)   This authorization of the monitoring waiver is subject to the
following conditions and does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
specified in the categorical pretreatment standard:
      (1)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the IU permit, and in no case longer than five years. The
IU must submit a new request for the waiver before the waiver can be granted
for each subsequent control mechanism.
      (2)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the IU
must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's process
wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes. Non-detectable sample
results may only be used as a demonstration that a pollutant is not present if
the FDEP-approved method from 62-4.246, F.A.C, with the lowest method detection
limit for that pollutant was used in the analysis.
      (3)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
54.114 below including the certification statement.
      (4)   The authorization will be included as a condition in the IU's
permit. The reasons supporting the waiver and any information submitted by the
IU in its request for the waiver will be maintained by the control authority
for three years after expiration of the waiver.
      (5)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the IU's
permit by the control authority, the IU must certify each report with the
following statement: "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly
responsible for managing compliance with the pretreatment standard for 40 CFR
[specify applicable national pretreatment standard part(s)], I certify that, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
[list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility
since filing of the last periodic report under §
54.104(A), of City of Mexico Beach Code of Ordinances."
      (6)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present, or is
expected to be present, based on changes that occur in the IU's operations, the
IU must immediately notify the control authority and comply with the monitoring
requirements of §
54.104(A) - (E) or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
county.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.105 REPORTS FROM INDUSTRIAL USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The director shall require appropriate reporting from those SIUs with
discharges that are not subject to categorical pretreatment standards.
   (B)   Significant noncategorical industrial users shall submit to the
director at least once every six months (on dates specified by the director), a
description of the nature, concentration and flow of pollutants required to be
reported by the director.
   (C)   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in the
period covered by the report and performed in accordance with the procedures
prescribed in §
54.113.
   (D)   In cases where a local limit requires compliance with a best
management practice or pollution prevention alternative, the IU must submit
documentation required by the control authority to determine the compliance
status of the IU.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.106 REPORTS FROM NONPERMITTED INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   The director may require IUs that are not required to obtain wastewater
discharge permits to submit a periodic report containing information on the
nature, concentration and flow of pollutants entering the WWF.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.107 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any IU who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify in
writing the director, the EPA regional waste management division director and
the Florida Department of Environmental Protection of any discharge into the
WWF of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the IU discharges more than
100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the WWF, the notification
also shall contain the following information to the extent such information is
known and readily available to the IU: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during that
calendar month and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. For new sources,
notification must take place at least 90 calendar days before the discharge
commences. For existing sources, notification must occur at least 15 calendar
days before the discharge commences. Any notification under this division need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
54.110. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by IUs subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of Section 54-48.
   (B)   Industrial users are exempt from the requirements of division (A)
above during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms
of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified
in 40 CFR Sections 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), as hereby incorporated. Discharges
of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or
of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR Sections
261.30(d) and 261.33(e), as hereby incorporated, requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the IU discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste, the IU must notify
the director, the EPA regional waste management division director and the
Florida Department of Environmental Protection of the discharge of such
substance within 90 calendar days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the IU shall
certify that it has a program to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous
wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically practical.
   (E)   This section does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued under
this chapter or any applicable federal or state law or regulation.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.108 SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   The director may require an IU that has the ability to cause
interference with the WWF or to violate the regulatory provisions of this
chapter to provide protection from accidental discharge to the WWF of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or IU's own cost and expense. All IUs whose wastewater
includes or could include compatible or incompatible pollutants in amounts
great enough to cause interference with the WWF may be required to have
detailed plans on file at the county WWF offices showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection. Plans shall be approved by the
director.
   (B)   The director may require a new source to have an approved slug
discharge control before being allowed to commence discharge. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the IU from
the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements
of this chapter. At a minimum, the slug discharge control plan shall contain
the following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the WWF of slug discharges
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
54.30(B), with procedures for follow-up written notification within five
calendar days, in accordance with §
54.109;
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents) and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.109 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
unanticipated or accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic
nature, a noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that may
cause interference with the WWF or violate regulatory requirements of this
chapter, it shall be the responsibility of the IU to immediately notify the
city and Bay County WWF offices of the incident as soon as they become aware of
the discharge. The notification shall include the name of the person providing
the notification, location and time of discharge, type of wastewater,
concentration and volume and corrective actions taken by the IU.
   (B)   Within five calendar days following such discharge, the IU shall,
unless waived by the director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the IU to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the IU of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the WWF, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the IU of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the IU's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who could cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the director
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.110 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each IU shall notify the director of any planned substantial changes to the
IU's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or volume of
its wastewater at least 90 calendar days before the change or immediately after
the IU has knowledge such change will occur.
   (A)   The director may require the IU to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
54.74.
   (B)   The director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
54.32 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
54.33 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, substantial changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants or any other change the director finds
necessary for the IU to report in order to prevent pass through or
interference.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.111 RECORDKEEPING.
   Industrial users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter,
including documentation associated with best management practices, shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter. Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed and who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years whether or not such monitoring
activities are required by this chapter or a permit. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any unresolved litigation concerning
the IU or the county or when requested by the director or the EPA regional
administrator.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.112 MONITORING, SAMPLING AND MEASURING FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The director may require any IU to construct, at the IU's expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the
waste discharged, together with sampling or metering equipment to be provided,
installed and operated at the IU's expense. Such inspection chamber or control
manhole shall be situated on the IU's premises and shall be constructed and
operated to permit accurate sampling and flow measurements of all wastes
discharged. Where conditions do not permit measurement of all discharges from
one industrial facility at a single control manhole, multiple control manholes
shall be provided. The control manhole shall be located so as to permit access
by county representatives, provide sufficient space for storage of samples and
equipment and allow for accurate sampling and flow measurement. Such facilities
shall be located so that samples may be taken safely and easily and shall not
be obstructed by landscaping, parked vehicles or other activity of the IU.
   (B)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the director's requirements
and all applicable county construction standards and specifications. When, in
the judgment of the director, an existing IU requires a monitoring facility,
the IU will be so notified in writing. Construction must be completed within 90
calendar days following written notification, unless a time extension is
otherwise granted by the director.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.113 SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the IU shall
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow proportional composite sampling
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the director
may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the IU demonstrates that this will provide representative samples
of the effluent being discharged and the decision to allow the alternative
sampling must be documented in the IU file for that facility. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques. At least four samples for volatile organic compounds must be
collected at least four hours apart in a 24-hour period. Using protocols
(including appropriate preservation) specified in Chapter 62-160, F.A.C, and
DEP-SOP-001/01, multiple grabs collected during a 24-hour period shall be
composited in the laboratory prior to analysis.
   (C)   Oil and grease samples shall be collected in accordance with division
(B) above unless the sampling location or point cannot be physically accessed
to perform a direct collection of a grab sample. In these instances, the sample
shall be pumped from the sampling location or point into the sample container
using a peristaltic-type pump. All pump tubing used for sample collection must
be new or pre-cleaned and must be changed between sample containers and sample
points. The pump tubing shall not be pre-rinsed or flushed with sample prior to
collecting the sample. The report of analysis shall indicate that a peristaltic
pump was used to collect the oil and grease sample.
   (D)   The IU shall take a minimum of one representative sample to compile
the data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the IU shall measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in
62-625.410(6), F.A.C, to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards.
Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated, in
accordance with §
54.31, this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the
director.
   (F)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a report, wastewater discharge permit, or permit application shall
be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136
and Chapter 62-160, F.A.C., unless otherwise specified in an applicable
pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA and FDEP. All
laboratory analytical reports prepared by the IU or the control authority shall
comply with 62-160.340, F.A.C.
   (G)   At the discretion of the director, sampling and analysis may be
performed by the control authority in lieu of the IU. Where the control
authority itself chooses to collect all the information required for the
reports in §
54.101, and §§
54.104 through
54.106, including flow data, the IU shall not be required to submit the report,
in accordance with 62-625.600(6)(7)(b), F.A.C.
   (H)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements in, §
54.101, and §§
54.104 through
54.106 must be based on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period. The control
authority shall require a frequency of monitoring necessary to assess and
assure compliance by IUs with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (I)   Sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in §§
54.101 and §
54.103 above shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   For IUs where historical sampling data do not exist, a minimum of
four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide and volatile organic compounds.
      (2)   For IUs where historical sampling data are available, the control
authority may authorize a lower minimum.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.114 SIGNATORY AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All wastewater discharge permit applications and IU reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the IU and contain the following
certification statement: "I certify under penalty of law that this document and
all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.115 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
§ 54.116 FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable charges and fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the city’s pretreatment program, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing an industrial user’s discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports submitted by industrial users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-12-2006; Ord. 679, passed 9-26-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   GOLF CARTS
      
72.   PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING
      
73.   SAND AND BEACH AREAS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of Florida Uniform Traffic Control Law
   
70.02   Specifications for traffic control devices
   
70.03   Authority to impound vehicles
   
70.04   Notice of impounding
   
70.05   Police to direct traffic
   
70.06   Firefighters may direct traffic
   
70.07   Form of traffic ticket and complaint
   
70.08   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings; authority to remove
   
70.09   Speed limits; alleys, parking lots
   
70.10   Speed limits; authority to change
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF FLORIDA UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL LAW.
   There is hereby adopted by reference, the Florida Uniform Traffic Control
Law, F.S. Ch. 316, as amended, which laws shall be in full force and effect in
the city as if fully set forth in this section, and shall be considered as part
of this chapter.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.02 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals, makings and devices shall conform to the
then current manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways
of the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.03 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of safety or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or by this
municipality, when:
      (1)   Any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge causeway, where such
vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   A vehicle upon a street is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic or the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are by
reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody, and removal;
      (3)   A vehicle is found being operated upon to streets and not in a
condition to be safely operated;
      (4)   Any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      (5)   Any vehicle is left unattended upon a street continuously for more
than 24 hours and may be presumed to be abandoned;
      (6)   The driver of such vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department and such vehicle would thereby be left unattended upon a street;
      (7)   The removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm or other emergency reason; or
      (8)   A vehicle is left in violation of a parking control device which
informs vehicle operators that the area in which the vehicle is parked is an
official tow away zone.
   (B)   No vehicle impounded in an authorized garage as herein provided, shall
be released therefrom, until the charges for towing such vehicle into the
garage, and storage charges have been paid.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.04 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING.
   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in §
70.03, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain the name and address of
the owner thereto, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given
notice to such owner of the fact of such removal, the reasons therefor and of
the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle
is stored in an authorized garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the
proprietor of such garage.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.05 POLICE TO DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
Statutory reference(s):
   Obedience to police officers directing traffic, see F.S. § 316.072
§ 70.06 FIREFIGHTERS MAY DIRECT TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire or other
emergencies, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in
the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
Statutory reference(s):
   Obedience to firefighters directing traffic, see F.S. § 316.072(3)
§ 70.07 FORM OF TRAFFIC TICKET AND COMPLAINT.
   The Chief of Police, is hereby authorized to use a traffic ticket and
complaint for use by the Police Department in connection with traffic offenses
committed within the city limits, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.08 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS; AUTHORITY TO
REMOVE.
   No person shall place, maintain or display, upon or in view of any street,
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be, or is an
imitation of, or resembles an official traffic control device, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SPEED LIMITS; ALLEYS, PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon any alley or within any public or
private parking lot in the city in excess of 15 mph. For purposes of this
section, an ALLEY shall mean a street or way within a city block which is set
aside for public use, or upon any street or other public way with a width of 20
feet or less.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 SPEED LIMITS; AUTHORITY TO CHANGE.
   Whenever the Chief of Police, shall determine upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that any prima facie speed hereinbefore
set forth is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions
found to exist at any intersection or other place or upon any part of a
highway. The Chief of Police, with the approval of the City Council may
determine and declare a reasonable and safe prima facie speed limit thereat
which shall be effective at all times or during hours of daylight or darkness
or at such other times as may be determined when appropriate signs giving
notice thereof are erected at such intersection or other place or part of the
highway, provided that no such changes shall be made on state highways or
connecting links or extensions thereof.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking, in violation of §
70.08 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, punishable by a civil
infraction of $10, and the Chief of Police, is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (C)   Violation of §
70.09 shall be a civil infraction of $25.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-10-2001)
CHAPTER 71: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Restriction to golf cart modifications
   
71.03   Authorization to operate golf carts within the city
   
71.04   Hours of operation
   
71.05   Compliance with traffic laws
   
71.06   Golf cart registration
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   Pursuant to F.S. § 320.01(22), a GOLF CART is defined as a motor vehicle
that is designed and manufactured for operations on a golf course for sporting
or recreational purposes and that is not capable of exceeding 20 mph.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009)
§ 71.02 RESTRICTION TO GOLF CART MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All golf carts operated within the city shall meet the minimum
equipment standards established by state statutes and have no increased power,
wheel base or tire modifications from a standard manufactured gas or electric
golf cart.
   (B)   Speed modified golf carts or “hybrid” golf carts are not authorized
for use on city.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE GOLF CARTS WITHIN THE CITY.
   Golf carts meeting the definition set forth in §
71.01, and properly equipped meeting restrictions in §
71.02, may be operated on those streets designated for cart usage.
   (A)   Permitted designated streets.
      (1)   All city streets located within the jurisdiction city, except for
U.S. Highway 98 (State Route 30).
      (2)   All city streets located within subdivisions which traffic is
enforceable providing they are approved for use by the subdivisions Homeowners
Association and a written agreement has been entered with the city for traffic
enforcement on subdivision streets. Any notice to rescind this use will be
providing in writing.
      (3)   Golf carts operating on 15th Street must display a slow vehicle
triangle sign visible from the rear of the golf cart.
   (B)   Non-permitted streets.
      (1)   Golf carts will not be permitted for use on U.S. Highway 98 (State
Route 30).
      (2)   No golf cart is permitted along the right-of-way of U.S. Highway 98
(State Route 30).
      (3)   No golf cart is permitted to ride on private property, except that
property owned by the same individual as the golf cart or without written
consent of the owner. If the owner is present on property where a golf cart is
being used, they are permitted to give verbal consent.
   (C)   The city shall provide signage designating streets or other areas
where golf carts may be operated.
   (D)   Golf carts are not permitted to operate on city maintained side-walks
located along U.S. Highway 98.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 655, passed 12-13-2016) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts will only be permitted on city streets from sunrise to sunset.
During times of fog, smoke, rain and low light conditions golf carts must be
equipped with headlights, brake lights, turn signals and a windshield. The city
strongly recommends placement of reflective devices or reflective tape on the
sides of all golf carts.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 689, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 820, passed 11-
28-2023) Penalty, see §  
71.99
§ 71.05 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Golf carts shall comply with all applicable local and state traffic laws,
and may be cited for traffic violations in the same manner as motor vehicles.
Drivers of such golf carts must have a valid driver license. Golf carts can
have only the number of passengers as the number of seats contained in the golf
cart.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 689, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 820, passed 11-
28-2023) Penalty, see §  
71.99
§ 71.06 GOLF CART REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All golf carts operated on city streets must first be registered with
the city. Registration must be made by the owner who is at least 18 years of
age. The owner will be charged an annual registration fee of $15. There will be
no prorated registrations. Funds from the registration fees collected will
support costs of street designation signs, and registration stickers.
Registration stickers shall be placed on the driver’s side rear fender area of
the golf cart. All registrations must be renewed annually during the month of
January. If an owner fails to renew their registration on or before January 31,
their registration shall be deemed expired, and they shall not be permitted to
operate their golf cart on city streets. If the registered golf cart has a
change in ownership, the new owner must register the golf cart under his or her
name before the golf cart can resume operation on the streets of the city.
   (B)   A list of all golf cart registrations shall be maintained by the city.
(Ord. 820, passed 11-28-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
71.03 may be cited using the code enforcement citation. Fines for violation
shall be $50. Failure to pay a citation within 30 days shall result in
registration of the golf cart permit to be revoked until fine is paid, an
additional late fee of $25, and the violator may be found in civil contempt
issued a notice to appear before the Special Master. The notice to appear shall
serve as legal notice of the violation and the date of appearance must be more
than 30 days after notice is given.
   (C)   Violations of §
71.04 may be cited using the code enforcement citation. Fines for violation
shall be $50. Failure to pay citation may result in the violator being found in
civil contempt and being issued a notice to appear before the Special Master.
The notice to appear shall serve as legal notice of the violation and the date
of appearance must be more than 30 days after notice is given.
   (D)   Violations of §
71.05 may be cited using the code enforcement citation. Fines for violation
shall be $50. Failure to pay citation may result in violator found in civil
contempt and being issued a notice to appear before the Special Master. The
notice to appear shall serve as legal notice of the violation and the date of
appearance must be more than 30 days after notice is given.
   (E)   Violations of §
71.06.
      (1)   Fines for driving a golf cart without registration:
         (a)   First offense: $50.
         (b)   Second offense: $75.
         (c)   Third offense: $150; registration revoked for a year.
      (2)   Driving a golf cart with registration revoked shall result in a
fine of $250, and permanent revocation of registration by owner for any golf
cart.
      (3)   If fines are paid within ten days of issuance, the owner may
register the golf cart at no additional cost. If the fines are paid after ten
days, the owner must pay the fine and the registration costs. If the fines are
not paid within 30 days of the issuance, the city may seek an order to show
cause from a judge, and the violator may be found in civil contempt. If found
in civil contempt, the violator may be issued a notice to appear before the
Special Magistrate.
(Ord. 569, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 689, passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 820, passed 11-
28-2023)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING, STANDING, STOPPING
Section
   
72.01   Findings and purpose
   
72.02   Title and citation
   
72.03   Applicability
   
72.04   Definitions
   
72.05   Jurisdiction
   
72.06   Placement of official signs
   
72.07   Prohibited parking
   
72.08   Issuance of city parking citations
   
72.09   Payment of civil penalties and proceedings to enforce payment
violations
   
72.10   Owner’s liability for parking violations
   
72.11   Disposition of fines and forfeitures for parking violations
   
72.12   Appeal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council does hereby find the following facts.
   (A)   The improper and non-regulated parking is detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The clear passage of public roadways and streets, including parking
lots, business access, city parks and all other facilities is vital to the
citizens of the city.
   (C)   The protection of the quality of life and economy for the city
businesses and its citizens can be accomplished by controlling parking and
access to facilities
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.02 TITLE AND CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “City of Mexico Beach
Parking Control Ordinance”.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to and be enforced within the corporate limits of
the city.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates and requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Weekdays of Monday through Friday, excludes Saturday, Sunday
and legal holidays as recognized by the United States Postal Service and the
City of Mexico Beach.
   CITY ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any strip of land granted, dedicated or deeded to
the public occupied or intended to be occupied by a road, sidewalk, utility,
storm drainage pipes, swales and the like.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or has actual physical control of a vehicle on
a highway or who is exercising control of a vehicle or steering a vehicle being
towed by a motor vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary fines of the roadways
of two roadways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles;
or the area within which vehicles travel upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle which is self-propelled, but not including any
bicycle or moped as defined in this section.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction
for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
upon the roadway or who is exercising control over or steering a vehicle being
towed by a motor vehicle.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession as vested in the
conditional vendee, or lessee, or mortgagor, shall be deemed the OWNER, for the
purpose of this definition.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing or stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise and temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers as may be permitted by law under
this chapter.
   PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Includes any City of Mexico Beach police
officer, any designee of the, any City Code Compliance personnel, the Sheriff
and any Deputy Sheriff of Bay County, and any state law enforcement officer.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   PUBLIC PARKING SPACE. Any parking space on city-owned/leased property,
public property, or on private property which the owner, lessee or person in
control of such property provides for use by members of the public other than
employees of such owner, lessee, or person, including, but not limited to,
parking places at shopping centers, stores, offices, motels, restaurants and
marinas.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
line, or a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
   STANDING. The temporary stopping of a passenger vehicle for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in picking up and discharging persons.
   STOP or STOPPING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
directions of a law enforcement officer, traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.05 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking
of a vehicle shall be in effect upon all streets and highways within the
incorporated area of the city, and shall apply at all times or as indicated on
official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a law enforcement
officer or traffic control device.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.06 PLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall investigate changes
concerning parking restrictions to be placed upon streets and highways in the
incorporated area of the city, except as directed by City Council. The Chief of
Police may make changes, except as directed by the City Council, which shall be
in accordance with the terms of this chapter in an effort to clearly inform the
public and to assist compliance with the conditions set forth.
   (B)   These changes shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   All night parking;
      (2)   Angle parking;
      (3)   Parking on the left side of one-way streets or highways;
      (4)   Parking on one-way streets;
      (5)   Prohibited parking; and
      (6)   Limited parking.
   (C)   Except as directed by the City Council, upon the order of the Chief of
Police enacting restrictions or prohibiting parking, standing or stopping in
certain areas along city street or alley, such street shall be posted with
signs specifying the restrictions or prohibitions of parking, standing or
stopping.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.07 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with law or the direction of a law enforcement officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
   (A)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
      (1)   Upon a street or highway in such a manner or under such conditions
as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic;
      (2)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street or right-of-way;
      (3)   On a sidewalk, bike path or bike lane;
      (4)   Within an intersection;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street or highway, or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway, where
parking is not provided herein;
      (8)   Within any fire lane or fire zone appropriately signed;
      (9)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street or highway opposite the entrance to any fire station
within 15 feet of said entrance;
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking;
      (11)   Upon any public street, city road, public property or right-of-way
for the principal purpose of displaying such vehicle for sale;
      (12)   Upon any street for the principal purpose of washing, greasing or
repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      (13)   Upon any street for the principal purpose of selling merchandise,
except when authorized or licensed under the ordinances of this municipality;
      (14)   So that a portion of the vehicle extends over any of the lines
delineating the parking space for a vehicle or parts of a vehicle extending
into a roadway causing a potential safety hazard for vehicles traveling upon a
roadway;
      (15)   Upon the roadway side of another vehicle that is parked, stopped
or standing legally within a parking space; or
      (16)   Backed into a public parking space marked for angle parking.
   (B)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (1)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, unless otherwise
authorized in writing byor at the direction of the City Council;
      (4)   Within 15 feet upon the approach to any stop sign or traffic
control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict parking or
in excess of time periods authorized by such signs;
      (6)   Across the delineated boundaries of a public parking place; or
      (7)   Upon the area of the beach seaward of the pavement area of any
roadway located adjacent to the public beach, excluding the right-of-way area
of U.S. Highway 98 where vehicles are allowed to park upon the unpaved right-
of-way in a safe manner, or in designated areas.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to wilfully obstruct the
free, convenient and normal use of any public street, highway or road, by
impeding, hindering, stifling, retarding or restraining traffic or passage
thereon, or by endangering the safe movement of vehicles or pedestrians
traveling thereon:
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in a
business district except for the expeditious loading or unloading of material,
and in no event for a period of more than 20 minutes, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle in any other alley in such a manner as to obstruct the
free movement of vehicular traffic unless otherwise posted;
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within the front road
located within the area known as the Mexico Beach Business Center, a road that
runs from east to west between N. 30th Street and N. 32nd Street parallel to
U.S. Highway 98, except in designated parking spaces;
      (3)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in
such position as to block the driveway or entrance to any abutting property;
and
      (4)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle within the main paved
portion of a street as to willfully obstruct the free, convenient and normal
use of any public street, highway or road, by impeding, hindering, stifling,
retarding or restraining traffic or passage thereon in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (D)   No person, except persons on emergency calls, shall park a vehicle on
any street, public parking lot or public park marked to prohibit all-night
parking and giving notice thereof.
   (E)   No vehicle or trailer commonly known as a “mobile home” or “modular
home” shall be permitted to be parked or stored upon a public street; however,
the “mobile home” or “modular home” may be placed on a public right-of-way for
a period of no more than five business days as long as the “mobile home” or
“modular home” is parked in such a manner not to obstruct the free movement of
traffic. For the purpose of this section, a MOBILE HOME is defined as
structures that are transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis, designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation
and connected to utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel
trailers and similar transportable structures placed in use (other than for
sale) on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer. For the purpose of this
section, a MODULAR HOME is defined as homes manufactured under the Florida
Manufactured Building Act and certified by the State Department of Community
Affairs as complying with the structural requirements of the Standard Building
Code.
   (F)   No boat or watercraft trailers shall be parked within the public
parking area on South 37th Street except in the designated trailer parking area
located adjacent to U.S. Highway 98.
   (G)   Vehicles shall not be parked on public right-of-way or public property
overnight for the purpose of sleeping or camping.
   (H)   Officers may provide for the removal of any abandoned vehicle, to
include vehicle towed trailers, (henceforth noted as vehicle) to the nearest
garage or other place of safety, cost of such removal to be a lien against
motor vehicle, when an abandoned vehicle is found unattended upon a bridge or
causeway, or on any public road in the following instances:
      (1)   Where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   Where such vehicle has been parked or stored on the public right-
of-way for a period exceeding 48 hours and is within 30 feet of the pavement
edge; and
      (3)   The agency removing such vehicle shall be required to report same
to the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles within 24 hours of such
removal.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. 518, passed 8-8-2006) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 ISSUANCE OF CITY PARKING CITATIONS.
   (A)   When any Parking Enforcement Officer finds a vehicle in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or signs erected pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, he or she shall issue a parking citation to the person or vehicle
by placing said citation in a conspicuous place on the vehicle. Such parking
citation form shall contain language providing notice of the following:
      (1)   The type of violation and amount of penalty imposed by this
chapter; and
      (2)   The penalty for failure to comply with directions contained on the
citation.
   (B)   The Parking Enforcement Officer shall determine the registered owner
of the vehicle for which a citation was issued and shall complete the citation
form. The original copy of the citation form shall be forwarded to the city
when completed for processing.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.09 PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE PAYMENT
VIOLATIONS.
   Any person issued a city parking citation, pursuant to this chapter, shall
answer the citation by either of the following procedures within ten days,
excluding Saturdays, Sunday and legal holidays, after the date of issuance of
the citation:
   (A)   Payment of the penalty indicated on the citation may be remitted to
the city, pursuant to the directions on such citation; or
   (B)   Upon receipt of a complete parking citation submitted by a Parking
Enforcement Officer, pursuant to this chapter, the city may notify the
registered owner first listed on such citation of its issuance if there has
been no response to the citation pursuant to division (A) above. Such notice
shall be sent by certified return receipt mail and shall inform said registered
owner concerning the nature and location of the parking violation and shall
require payment of the fine.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.10 OWNER’S LIABILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   The owner of a vehicle is responsible and liable for payment of any parking
ticket violation unless the owner can furnish evidence and a sworn statement
that the vehicle was, at the time of the parking violation, in the care,
custody or control of another person. In such instances, the owner of the
vehicle is required, within a reasonable time after notification of the parking
violation, to furnish to the appropriate law enforcement authorities the name
and address of the person or company who leased, rented or otherwise had the
care, custody or control of the vehicle. The owner of a vehicle is not
responsible for parking ticket violations if the vehicle was, at the time,
stolen or in the care, custody or control of some person who did not have
permission of the owner to use the vehicle.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.11 DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all monies received by the
City Clerk as a result of parking citation issued by the municipality shall be
paid to the municipality as provided by state statute. All monies received
shall be placed into the General Fund (75%) and the Law Enforcement Education
(L.E.E.) fund (25%).
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.12 APPEAL.
   (A)   If a driver or registered owner is cited for a violation of this
chapter, the cited person shall have a right to contest such citation, within
ten business days of issuance. The cited person must present the citation with
a written request form for a hearing to the City Clerk, such form must be
completed in person or a notarized copy may be forwarded to the city. The
postmark of the envelope will be used for the ten-day requirement. The cited
person must appear before the City Special Master at a time and place so
designated by the Special Master.
   (B)   A driver or registered owner reserves the right to appeal any decision
made by the Special Master to the 14th Judicial Circuit Courts. Any appeal made
to the courts will be completed by the driver or registered owner.
   (C)   All late fees and dates shall be suspended until ten business days
after the appeal process is complete.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to F.S. § 318.14, any person cited for a violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to be charged with a non-criminal violation and shall be
assessed a civil penalty according to the following schedule.
   (A)   Fifteen dollars for a violation of any provision of this chapter,
except §
72.07(E). Fines and late payment penalty for violations of this chapter are to
be distributed as follows.
      (1)   Each day any violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense.
      (2)   The amount of any penalty specified in this section shall be
increased by an additional $7.50 if payment is not received by the city within
ten business days of the date of issue and prior to notice being mailed to the
registered owner.
      (3)   The amount of any penalty specified in this section shall be an
additional $15 if payment is not received by the city within 20 business days.
      (4)   The amount of the penalty shall be increased to $50 if payment is
not received by the city within 30 business days.
      (5)   After the 35 business days the fine remains unpaid, the total
amount may be referred to a collection agency.
   (B)   Fifty dollars for a violation of §
72.07(E). Fines and late payment penalty for violations of §
72.07 are to be distributed as follows.
      (1)   Each day any violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense.
      (2)   The amount of any penalty specified in this section shall be
increased by an additional $25 of the specified amount if payment is not
received by the city within ten business days of the date of issue and prior to
notice being mailed to the registered owner.
      (3)   The amount of any penalty specified in this section shall be
increased by an additional $50 if payment is not received by the city within 20
business days.
      (4)   The amount of the penalty shall be increased to $150 if payment is
not received by the city within 30 business days.
      (5)   After the 35 business days the fine remains unpaid, the total
amount may be referred to a collection agency.
(Ord. 390, passed 6-11-2002)
CHAPTER 73: SAND AND BEACH AREAS
Section
   
73.01   Driving on the beach
   
73.02   Exceptions
   
73.03   Violation
§ 73.01 DRIVING ON THE BEACH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle, except
as provided in §
73.02, in or upon the sand beach areas between the waters of the Gulf of Mexico
and the coastal construction control line established by the State Department
of Natural Resources.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person entitled to control of a
motor vehicle to knowingly permit the operation of that motor vehicle in
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   As used herein, the term VEHICLE shall mean that in or on which a
person or thing is or may be carried from one place to another, especially
along the ground, but also through the air; any carriage moving on land, either
on wheels or runners or a cushion of air; that which is used as an instrument
of conveyance on land.
(Ord. 563, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibition contained in §
73.01, shall not apply to:
      (1)   A work vehicle operated between sunrise and sunset, provided such
work vehicle is operated for the sole purpose of transporting beach boxes,
chairs, umbrellas, similar stationary equipment, and water sports vehicles
approved by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, but excluding personal
and other motor driven vessels, provided beach access is gained through the
nearest established and properly identified public access route which directly
connects the paved highway with the Gulf of Mexico;
      (2)   A work vehicle operated between sunrise and sunset provided such
work vehicle is operated for the sole purpose of servicing, repairing or
replacing broken stationary equipment and water sports vehicles, provided beach
access is gained through the nearest established and properly identified public
access route which directly connects the paved highway with the Gulf of Mexico;
in addition, such a work vehicle otherwise lawfully upon the beach may also
during these times, move water sports vehicles to and from storage and other
areas, provided such use is entirely within the boundaries of the property on
which the business for which the vehicle was at that time providing service,
repair or replacement is lawfully entitled to operate;
      (3)   Permitted beach cleaning vehicles and equipment;
      (4)   Wildlife monitoring vehicles operated at public expense;
      (5)   Ambulances or other life rescue and law enforcement vehicles;
      (6)   Beach patrol vehicles operated at public expense;
      (7)   Work vehicles consisting of a single passenger, all-terrain or
light industrial vehicle operated to move water sports vehicles to and from the
nearest established and properly identified public access route which directly
connects the paved highway with the Gulf of Mexico; or
      (8)   A handicapped vehicle operated for the sole purpose of transporting
upon the sandy beach a person with an ambulatory disability which materially
impairs his or her ability to walk on the sandy beach, provided such vehicle’s
weight shall not exceed 350 pounds, its length shall not exceed 60 inches, its
width shall not exceed 34 inches, its seating capacity shall not exceed two
persons, and its power source shall not enable the vehicle to achieve speeds in
excess of three mph on level sand.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to permit the operation of any
vehicle on the beach in violation of any other applicable law.
(Ord. 563, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 73.03 VIOLATION.
   Any person found guilty of the violation of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor of the second degree punishable as provided in F.S. § 375.314.
(Ord. 563, passed 9-9-2008)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   BIRD SANCTUARY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   LIGHTING NEAR BEACHES
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   BEACH REGULATIONS
      
98.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal control personnel
   
90.03   Interference and the like with personnel
   
90.04   Breaking into animal shelter
   
90.05   Cruelty to animals
   
90.06   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
90.07   Animals at large
   
90.08   Running at large
   
90.09   Leashing
   
90.10   Damaging property
   
90.11   Disturbing the peace
   
90.12   Unrestrained animals in open vehicles
   
90.13   Animals on beach
   
90.14   Citations authorized
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACH. The portion of the Gulf Beaches within the City of Mexico Beach lying
seaward of the mean high water line and which, for the purpose of this chapter,
is presumed to be that soft, sandy beach area lying seaward of the most seaward
dune line or the most seaward vegetation line.
   CAT. All domestic felines.
   DOG. All members of the canine family including pet foxes, wolves and the
like.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, association or any combination of the
foregoing owning, harboring, keeping or controlling an animal or animals within
the city.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The proper administration of anti-rabies
inoculation or vaccination by a veterinarian licensed by the State Board of
Veterinary Medicine.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CONTROL PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Animal control personnel shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Animal control personnel are police officer(s) and code enforcement officer(s)
of the city.
   (B)   The animal control personnel shall have full and complete authority in
the enforcement of this chapter and may pick up or apprehend any animal under
any circumstance which constitutes a violation of this chapter or state
statutes and impound such animal.
   (C)   The animal control personnel may enter public or unfenced private
property within the city to carry out the enforcement of this chapter or state
statute.
   (D)   The animal control personnel may enter the fenced private property,
exclusive of buildings, when the animal being sought was at large immediately
prior to the animal control agency or personnel receiving a sworn complaint
regarding a violation, but subsequently the animal returned to its owner’s or
custodian’s fenced private property; provided, however, that an attempt to
contact the owner or custodian, if known, was unsuccessful.
   (E)   The animal control personnel may enter the fenced private property for
the purpose of enforcing the provisions of F.S. § 828.073, concerning the
removal of neglected or mistreated animals.
   (F)   The animal control personnel may carry and utilize a humane chemical
capture device to subdue and tranquilize an animal; provided, however, they are
certified and or trained to use such device.
   (G)   The animal control personnel may issue citations and or notices to
appear in the County Court for violations of this chapter when reasonable and
probable cause exists that a violation has occurred.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 90.03 INTERFERENCE AND THE LIKE WITH PERSONNEL.
   No person shall interfere with, resist or hinder any animal control
personnel in the performance of any duty required by the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BREAKING INTO ANIMAL SHELTER.
   No person shall break open or assist in the breaking open of any fences,
gates, fastenings or enclosure of the animal shelter or impounding vehicles and
no unauthorized person shall remove of let loose any animal from the shelter or
impounding vehicles.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to overload, overdrive, torture,
torment or deprive of necessary sustenance, food or drink, or unnecessarily or
cruelly beat, mutilate or kill any animal or cause or permit either of such
offenses to be committed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously
steal, kill, wound or injure any animal which is the property of another or
willfully and maliciously administer poison to any animal or expose any
poisonous substance with the intent that the same shall be taken and swallowed
by any animal which is the property of another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously
mistreat or abandon any animal within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain horses, mules, cows,
cattle, chickens, poultry or goats in the city, except for special events, as
approved by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   If an animal is off of the property of its owner or off the property of the
person who has custody of the animal and the animal attacks and injures any
person or other animal, the owner or person in custody of the animal shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable as provided in §
90.99(E).
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to permit or
allow the dog or cat to commit a nuisance or to be found running at large on
any public streets, parks, playgrounds, alleys, beaches or vacant lots in the
city and such dog or cat shall be picked up by the city or the designated
authorized agent of the city and placed in a shelter for a period of not less
three days nor more than seven days, except the animal be released sooner upon
identification and compliance with the registration requirement contained
herein, and upon the payment of a $20 fee for dogs and a $10 fee for cats plus
an additional $7 per day for the redemption of said animal.
   (B)   The registration fee for unregistered dogs that have been picked up
shall be double the fee in effect on the date the dog is picked up.
      (1)   All dogs impounded shall be kept at the animal shelter located at
the city yard on N. 22nd Street for a period not to exceed seven days.
      (2)   If the impoundment of a dog exceeds seven days, the dog shall be
turned over to the County Humane Society located in Panama City, Florida. The
owner(s) of any dog impounded and transferred to the County Humane Society
shall be responsible for the fees within this section and any and all fees
imposed by the County Humane Society.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 LEASHING.
   (A)   No dog shall be allowed off the property of its owner unless the dog
is fastened to a suitable leash of dependable strength. Such leash must be
attached to a fixed object or specifically held by a person capable of
controlling the animal.
   (B)   No dog shall be permitted to habitually chase after or otherwise
harass a person or vehicle.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or be in control or,
in charge of any dog or cat, to allow or permit the dog or cat to wander or
stray upon the property of another and damage the property.
   (B)   If any dog or cat shall wander or stray upon the property of any
person within the corporate limits of the city and shall cause damage thereon,
proof of the damage and the identity of the dog or cat shall be sufficient to
convict the person owning or having charge of or control of the dog or cat
violating the terms and provisions of this section.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for any owner of a dog or cat to allow such
dog or cat to defecate on any property within the city other than the owner’s
private property without immediately removing such defecation with some sort of
material, utensil or suitable container and depositing the defecation in a
trash container. When walking a dog or cat on any property within the city,
other than the owner’s property, the owner of that dog or cat shall carry some
sort of material, utensil or suitable container with which to dispose the
defecation.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether owner, or anyone having charge,
custody or control thereof, shall permit a dog to bark, bay, cry, whine or howl
or make any noise continuously and/or incessantly in an excessive, habitual or
untimely fashion for such a duration that it annoys or disturbs a reasonable
person of normal sensitivities residing in or occupying premises in close
proximity to the premises on which the animal is located; however, a dog will
not be deemed a “barking dog” if, at the time the dog is barking or making any
other noise, a person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon private
property where the dog is situated or for any other legitimate cause which
teased or provoked the dog. In the case of multiple animals at one location, it
shall not be necessary to single out which specific dog committed a noise
nuisance. It shall be sufficient to demonstrate that the noise emanated from
the premises.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 UNRESTRAINED ANIMALS IN OPEN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful and a civil infraction to transport on any public
street any dog or other animal in a vehicle that is not fully enclosed unless
the animal is confined in a cage or container or temporarily securely tethered
by a device that will not permit the animal to fall or jump from the vehicle.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ANIMALS ON BEACH.
   No owner or other person having charge, care, custody or control of any
animal shall allow or permit any such dog, cat or animal(s) into or upon any
beach or the City Pier, which causing, permitting or allowing is hereby made
unlawful. The beach west of Canal Parkway is exempt from this section.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 555, passed 3-11-2008; Ord. 631, passed 1-12-
2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 CITATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The city animal control personnel or designee, as approved by the Chief of
Police shall have the authority to issue citations to those whose pets are
found to be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by fines as
follows.
         (a)   First offense: uncontested citations; the current offense is a
“first” offense if there have been no other citations in the preceding 36
months: $25; if not paid within 14 days, fine goes to $50; if not paid within
30 days a court hearing is required. Fines, penalties and administrative fees
shall be set as the court may deem appropriate, but shall not exceed the
maximum civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (b)   Second offense: uncontested citations; the current offense is a
“second” offense if there has been only one previous citation within the
preceding 36 months: $50; if not paid within 14 days, fine goes to $100; if not
paid within 30 days a court hearing is required. Fines, penalties and
administrative fees shall be set as the court may deem appropriate, but shall
not exceed the maximum civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: the current offense is a third or
subsequent offense if there have been two or more previous citations within the
preceding 36 months: a court hearing is required. Fines, penalties and
administrative fees shall be set as the court may deem appropriate , but shall
not exceed the maximum civil penalty of $500 per violation.
         (d)   Anyone cited with a violation of this chapter who pays the
required fines and then goes 36 months with no offenses shall return to the
status of having no prior offenses for the purpose of this section.
      (2)   A $5 surcharge shall be assessed and collected upon each civil
penalty imposed for violation of an ordinance relating to animal control or
cruelty as authorized by F.S. § 828.27. The proceeds from such surcharge shall
be used only to assist in paying for the costs of training for animal control
personnel in accordance with the requirements of F.S. § 827.27. Said civil
penalty shall be paid to the city.
      (3)   The animal control personnel shall have the authority to cite the
owner or any person having custody of an animal for violation of this chapter
when and only when: the animal control personnel has received from an adult
witness a sworn affidavit attesting to the animal having committed a violation
pursuant to this chapter; or the animal control personnel duly authorized to
enforce the provisions under this chapter, has witnessed the commission of a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of §
90.03 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by imprisonment
of a period not to exceed 60 days or a fine not to exceed $500, or both.
   (C)   Violation of §
90.04 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by imprisonment of
a period not to exceed 60 days or a fine not to exceed $500, or both.
   (D)   Violation of §
90.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by imprisonment
of a period not to exceed 60 days, or a fine not to exceed $500, or both.
   (E)   Per §
90.07, if an animal is off of the property of its owner or off the property of
the person who has custody of the animal, and the animal attacks and injures
any person or other animal, the owner or person in custody of the animal shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by imprisonment of a period
not to exceed 60 days or a fine not to exceed $500, or both.
(Ord. 388, passed 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 91: BIRD SANCTUARY
Section
   
91.01   City designated as a bird sanctuary
   
91.02   Killing and molesting birds prohibited
   
91.03   Birds constituting nuisance; abatement
   
91.04   Doves, pigeons
   
91.05   Enforcement; violations
§ 91.01 CITY DESIGNATED AS A BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The area embraced by the corporate limits of the city shall be designed as a
bird sanctuary.
(Ord. 447, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 91.02 KILLING AND MOLESTING BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to hunt, kill, maim or trap, hunt with slingshot, gun
or attempt to in any manner shoot or otherwise molest birds or any wild fowl,
to rob or otherwise molest the nests or birds nesting while located within the
city.
(Ord. 447, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 BIRDS CONSTITUTING NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   If starlings or other similar birds are found roosting, nesting or
inhabiting any locality within the city in such numbers as to constitute a
nuisance or health menace to persons or property, it shall be the duty of the
City Council to notify representatives of the Audubon Society, Garden Club,
Birdwatchers Club or Humane Society. If representatives from any of these
organizations are available, advising them that such conditions do exist and
requesting that immediate action to eliminate it be taken by them. If the
condition has not be eliminated by representatives of the above named
organizations within reasonable time, then the city shall take whatever action
it deems necessary to eliminate such condition or health menace.
(Ord. 447, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 91.04 DOVES, PIGEONS.
   (A)   It all shall be unlawful of any person to keep or harbor on any
premises in the city any doves or pigeons, other than homing or carrier
pigeons, unless the same shall be confined in cages or coops or in such other
manner as will prevent them from flying or straying beyond the premises on
which they are kept.
   (B)   Law enforcement officers and other persons who may be authorized by
the City Administrator shall be authorized to capture or to kill any doves or
pigeons that may be found beyond the premises where they are kept, in violation
hereof, and to damage and annoyance of the owners or occupants of other
premises.
   (C)   All authorized city officials as determined by the City Administrator
shall enforce these adopted codes. These codes are also enforced by all city
law enforcement.
(Ord. 447, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 91.05 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   Any persons violating this chapter are subject to the maximum penalties as
prescribed by law.
(Ord. 447, passed 9-9-2003)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Declaration of policy
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Unlawful housing practices
   
92.05   Exemptions and exceptions
   
92.06   Administrator authority and responsibilities
   
92.07   Complaints
   
92.08   Processing complaints
   
92.09   Additional remedies
   
92.10   Education and public information
   
92.11   Untruthful complaints or testimony
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fair Housing Code” of
the city.
(1998 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.02 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city, in keeping with the laws of the United States
of America and the spirit of the Constitution of the state, to promote through
fair, orderly and lawful procedure the opportunity for each person so desiring
to obtain housing of such person’s choice in this city without regard to race,
color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex, marital status, familial
status, handicap or age, and, to that end, to prohibit discrimination in
housing by any person.
(1998 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the City Council, pursuant to §
92.06.
   AGE. The work age as used herein shall refer exclusively to persons who are
18 years of age or older.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §
92.04.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit in
a dwelling.
   HOUSING or HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure or portion
thereof, mobile home or trailer, or other facility which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof, mobile
home or trailer or other facility.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association or any other person or organization regularly engaged in the
business of lending money, guaranteeing loans, or sources of credit
information, including, but not limited to, credit bureaus.
   OWNER. Any person, including, but not limited to, a lessee, sublessee,
assignee, manager or agent, but also including the city or any department or
sub-unit thereof.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mortgage companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations or public corporations,
including, but not limited to, the city or any department or sub-unit thereof.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate broker, any real estate salesperson or
any other person, employee, agent or otherwise, engaged in the management or
operation of any real property.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESPERSON. A person, whether licensed or not, who,
for or with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells,
purchases, exchanges, rents or leases real property, or who negotiates or
attempts to negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself or herself
out as engaged in these activities, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate
a loan secured or to be secured by mortgage or other encumbrance upon real
property, or who is engaged in the business of listing real property in a
publication; or a person employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION. Includes the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or
leases of real property, and any contract pertaining thereto.
   RENT. Includes leases, sublease, assignment and/or rental, including any
contract to do any of the foregoing, or otherwise granting for a consideration
the right to occupy premises that are not owned by the occupant.
   RESPONDENT. Any person against whom a complaint is filed pursuant to this
chapter.
   SALE. Includes any contract to sell, exchange or to convey, transfer or
assign legal or equitable title to, or a beneficial interest in, real property.
(1998 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.04 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Unlawful housing practices; sale or rental and advertising in
connection therewith. Except as provided in §
92.05, it shall be unlawful and a discriminatory housing practice for an owner,
or any other person engaging in a real estate transaction, or for a real estate
broker, as defined in §
92.03, because of race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex,
marital status, familial status, handicap or age:
      (1)   To refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with a person or
to otherwise make unavailable or deny housing to any person;
      (2)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of a real estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or
services in connection therewith;
      (3)   To refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person;
      (4)   To refuse to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person;
      (5)   To represent to a person that housing is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when, in fact, it is so available, or to fail
to bring a property listing to such person’s attention, or to refuse to permit
him or her to inspect the housing;
      (6)   To steer any person away from or to any housing;
      (7)   To make, print, publish, circulate, post, mail or cause to be made,
printed, published or circulated, any notice, statement, advertisement or sign,
or to use a form of application or photograph for a real estate transaction or,
except in connection with a written affirmative action plan, to make a record
of oral or written inquiry in connection with a prospective real estate
transaction, which indicates directly or indirectly an intent to make a
limitation, specification or discrimination with respect thereto;
      (8)   To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of housing with
the understanding that a person may be discriminated against in a real estate
transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (9)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to transfer an interest
in any housing by representations regarding the existing or potential proximity
of housing owned, used or occupied by any person protected by the terms of this
chapter;
      (10)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
rental, or the anticipated listing for sale or rental or the sale or rental of
any housing in any area of the city for the purpose of inducing or attempting
to induce any such listing or any of the above transactions;
      (11)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person
because of his or her opposing a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or
because he or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in
any manner in any investigation, proceeding or conference under this chapter;
      (12)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any
of the practices prohibited by the provisions of this chapter, or to obstruct
or prevent any person from complying with the provisions of this chapter, or
any conciliation agreement entered into thereunder;
      (13)   By canvassing to compel any unlawful practices prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter;
      (14)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold, any housing accommodation from
a person;
      (15)   To promote, induce, influence or attempt to promote, induce or
influence by the use of postal cards, letters, circulars, telephone, visitation
or any other means, directly or indirectly, a property owner, occupant or
tenant to list for sale, sell, remove from, lease, assign, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any housing by referring as a part of the process or
pattern of indicating neighborhood unrest, community tension or fear of racial,
color, religious, nationality or ethnic change in any street, block,
neighborhood or any other area, to the race, color, religion, neighbors,
tenants or other prospective buyers of any housing; or
      (16)   To place a sign or display any other device either purporting to
offer for sale, lease assignment, transfer or other disposition or tending to
lead to the belief that a bona fide offer is being made to sell, lease, assign,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any housing that is not in fact available or
offered for sale, lease, assignment, transfer or other disposition.
   (B)   Unlawful housing practices; financing. It shall be unlawful and a
discriminatory housing practice for any lending institution to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining housing, or to
discriminate against such person in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion,
sex, marital status, familial status, handicap or age of such person or of any
other person associated with such person in connection with such loan or other
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the housing in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; provided that nothing contained in this
division (B) shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exceptions
contained in §
92.05.
   (C)   Unlawful housing practices; brokerage services. It shall be unlawful
and a discriminatory housing practice to deny any person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate
brokers organization or other service, organization or facility related to the
business of selling or renting housing, or to discriminate against such person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation because
of race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex, marital status,
familial status or age.
(1998 Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing contained in §
92.04 shall prohibit a religious organization, association or society, or any
nonprofit charitable or educational institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting or from advertising the sale, rental or
occupancy of housing which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such
persons, nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (B)   Nothing in §
92.04, other than §
92.04(A)(7) shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided, further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (B)(1) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period; provided,
further, that does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on
such owner’s behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any
rights to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more
than three such single family houses at any one time; provided, further, that
the owner sells or rents such housing:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sale or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, salesperson or
of such renting housing, or of any employee or agency of any such broker,
agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(A)(7), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in housing containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as such owner’s residence, provided that the owners sells or rents
such rooms or units:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental services of
any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or of such facilities or services
of any person in the business of selling or renting housing, or of any employee
or agency of any such broker, agent, salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, in
violation of §
92.04(A)(7), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (B), a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting housing if:
         (a)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in three or
more transactions involving the sale or rental of any housing or any interest
therein;
         (b)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any housing or any interest
therein; or
         (c)   He or she is the owner of any housing designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
      (4)   Nothing in §
92.04 shall be construed to:
         (a)   Bar any person from restricting sales, rentals, leases or
occupancy, or from giving preference to persons of a given age for bona fide
housing intended solely for the elderly or bona fide housing intended solely
for minors;
         (b)   Make it an unlawful act to require that a person have legal
capacity to enter into a contract or lease;
         (c)   Bar any person from advertising or from refusing to sell or rent
any housing which is planned exclusively for, occupied exclusively by,
individuals of one sex, to any individual of the opposite sex;
         (d)   Bar any person from selling, renting or advertising any housing
which is planned exclusively for, and occupied exclusively by, unmarried
individuals to unmarried individuals only;
         (e)   Bar any person from advertising or from refusing to sell or rent
any housing which is planned exclusively for married couples without children
or from segregating families with children to special units of housing; or
         (f)   Bar any person from refusing a loan or other financial
assistance to any person whose life expectancy, according to generally accepted
mortality tables, is less than the term for which the loan is requested.
(1998 Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.06 ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Council to appoint. The authority and responsibility for administering
this chapter shall be vested in the City Council who shall appoint an
Administrator.
   (B)   General powers and duties. The Administrator shall:
      (1)   Receive written complaints as hereinafter provided in §
92.07 relative to alleged unlawful acts under this chapter when a complaint
seeks the Administrator’s good offices to conciliate;
      (2)   Upon receiving written complaint, make such investigations as the
Administrator deems appropriate to ascertain facts and issues;
      (3)   Utilize methods of persuasion, conciliation and mediation or
information adjustment of grievances;
      (4)   Establish, administer/review programs at the request of the Mayor
and make reports on such programs to the City Council;
      (5)   Bring to the attention of the City Council items that may require
the City Council’s notice or action to resolve;
      (6)   Render to the City Council annual written reports of his or her
activities under the provisions of this chapter along with such comments and
recommendations as he or she may choose to make; and
      (7)   Cooperate with and render technical assistance to federal, state,
local and other public and private agencies, organizations and institutions
which are formulating or carrying on programs to prevent or eliminate the
unlawful discriminatory practices covered by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Determination of probable cause. If after fully processing the
complaint in the manner hereafter provided, the Administrator determines that
there is probable cause to believe that there has been a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, he or she shall refer the matters along with the
facts he or she has gathered in his or her investigations, to the proper
county, state or federal authorities for appropriate legal action.
   (D)   Promulgation of forms and regulations. The Administrator shall
promulgate, publish and distribute the necessary forms, rules and regulations
to implement the provisions of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.07 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   A person who claims that another person has committed a discriminatory
housing practice against him or her may report that offense to the
Administrator by filing an informal complaint within 45 days after the date of
the alleged discriminatory housing practice and not later.
   (B)   The Administrator shall treat a complaint referred by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development or the Attorney General of the United States
under the Fair Housing Act of 1968, Pub. L. No. 90-284, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq., as an informal complaint filed under division (A) above.
   (C)   An informal complaint must be in writing, verified or affirmed, on a
form to be supplied by the Administrator and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Identity and address of the respondent;
      (2)   Date of offense and date of riling the complaint;
      (3)   General statement of facts of the offense, including the basis of
the discrimination (race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex,
marital status, familial status, handicap or age); and
      (4)   Name and signature of the complainant.
   (D)   Each complaint shall be held in confidence by the Administrator unless
and until the complainant and the respondent(s) consent in writing that it
shall be made public.
   (E)   Within 15 days after the filing of the informal complaint, the
Administrator shall transmit a copy of the same to each respondent named
therein by certified mail, return receipt requested. Thereupon, the respondents
may file a written, verified informal answer to the informal complaint within
20 days of the date of the receipt of the informal complaint.
   (F)   An informal complaint or answer may be amended at any time, and the
Administrator shall furnish a copy of each amended informal complaint or answer
to the respondent(s) complaint, respectively, as promptly as practicable.
   (G)   The Administrator shall assist complainants and respondents when
necessary in the preparation and filing of informal complaints or answers or
any amendments thereto.
   (H)   The Administrator shall advise complainants of their rights and
options provided in F.S. § 760.34.
(1998 Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.08 PROCESSING COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the filing of an informal complaint, the
Administrator shall make such investigation as he or she deems appropriate to
ascertain facts and issues. If the Administrator shall deem that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has occurred and can be resolved
by conciliation, he or she shall attempt to conciliate the matter by methods of
initial conference and persuasion with all interested parties such
representatives as the parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation
conferences shall be informal and nothing said or done in the course of the
informal conference with the individuals to resolve the dispute may be public
or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding by either party without the
written consent of both the complainant and the respondent(s). The
Administrator or employee of the Administrator who shall make public any
information in violation of this provision shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of a city ordinance and shall be subject to penalty as set forth in §
92.99.
   (B)   If the parties desire to conciliate, the terms of the conciliation
shall be reduced to writing in the form approved by the Administrator and must
be signed and verified by the complainant and respondent(s) and approved by the
Administrator. The conciliation agreement shall be for conciliation purposes
only, and shall not constitute an admission by any party that the law has been
violated.
   (C)   If the Administrator deems that there is not probable cause to believe
that the alleged discriminatory housing practice has been committed, the
Administrator shall take no further action with respect to the alleged offense.
   (D)   If the Administrator, with respect to any matter, involves a
contravention of this chapter by failure to conciliate a complaint after the
parties, in good faith, have attempted such conciliation; or determining that
the violation alleged in the complaint cannot be resolved by conciliation, he
or she shall notify both the complainant and the respondent(s) within 30 days
of the failure or the determination, and he or she shall proceed as provided in
§
92.06(C).
(1998 Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.09 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   The procedure prescribed by this chapter does not constitute an
administrative prerequisite to another action or remedy available under other
law.
   (B)   Further, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to modify, impair or
otherwise affect any right or remedy conferred by the Constitution or laws of
the United States or the state, and the provisions of this chapter shall be in
addition to those provided by such other laws.
(1998 Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.10 EDUCATION AND PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   The Administrator may conduct educational and public informational
activities that are designed to promote the policy of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
§ 92.11 UNTRUTHFUL COMPLAINTS OR TESTIMONY.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person knowingly and
willfully to make false or untrue statements, accusations or allegations in a
complaint filed hereunder or to give false testimony concerning violations of
this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject, upon conviction, to a fine up to but not exceeding the sum of $500, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(1998 Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 336, passed 1-14-1996)
CHAPTER 93: LIGHTING NEAR BEACHES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose and intent
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Standards for new construction activities
   
93.04   Standards for existing lighting
   
93.05   Public awareness
   
93.06   Enforcement and violations
   
93.07   Interpretation
   
93.08   Effective date
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to protect hatchling marine turtles from the
adverse effects of artificial lighting, provide overall improvement in nesting
habitat degraded by light pollution, and increase successful nesting activity
and production of hatchlings on the beaches of the city.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTIFICIAL LIGHT or ARTIFICIAL LIGHTING. The light emanating from any human-
made device.
   BEACH. The zone of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low water line to the place where there is a marked change in material or
physiographic form, or to the line of permanent vegetation, usually the
effective limit of storm waves.
   BUG TYPE BULB. Any yellow colored light bulb that is marketed as being
specifically treated in such a way so as to reduce the attraction of bugs to
the light.
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES. Any work or development in the CCCL in
Mexico Beach, Florida.
   COASTAL CONSTRUCTION CONTROL LINE (CCCL). The portion of the coastal
construction line established pursuant to the provisions of F.S. § 161.053 that
lies within the city.
   CUMULATIVELY ILLUMINATED. Illuminated by numerous artificial light sources
that as a group illuminate any portion of the beach.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Illuminated as a result of glowing elements(s), lamp
(s), globe(s) or reflector(s) of an artificial light source which is visible to
an observer on the beach.
   DUNE. A mound or ridge of loose sediments, usually sand-sized, lying
landward of the beach and deposited by any natural or artificial mechanism.
   FRONTAL DUNE. The first natural or human-made mound or bluff of sand which
is located landward of the beach and which has sufficient vegetation, height,
continuity and configuration to offer protective value.
   HATCHLING. Any species of marine turtle, within or outside of a nest, that
has recently hatched from an egg.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. Illuminated as a result of the glowing element(s),
lamp(s), globe(s) or reflector(s) of an artificial light source which is not
visible to an observer on the beach.
   LOW-PRESSURE SODIUM LUMINAIRE (LPS). An electric discharge lamp containing
sodium, neon, and argon, that when illuminated appears amber-yellow.
   MARINE TURTLE. Any marine-dwelling reptile of the families Cheloniidae or
Dermochelyidae found in Florida waters or using the beach as nesting habitat,
including the species: Caretta caretta (loggerhead), Chelonia mydas (green),
Dermochelys coriacea (leatherback), Eretmochelys imbricata (hawksbill) and
Lepidochelys kempi (Kemp’s ridley). For purposes of this rule, MARINE TURTLE is
synonymous with SEA TURTLE.
   NEST. An area where marine turtle eggs have been naturally deposited or
subsequently relocated.
   NESTING SEASON. The period from May 1 through October 31.
   NIGHTTIME. The period between sunset and sunrise.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, associations, joint ventures, partnerships,
estates, trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or
combinations.
   POLE LIGHTING. A light fixture set on a base or pole which raises the source
of the light higher than 24 inches off the ground.
   SHIELD. A non-reflective covering, canopy or other such device fitted over
and extended below a light source preventing light from illuminating the beach.
   TINTED GLASS. Any glass treated to achieve an industry-approved, inside-to-
outside light transmittance value of 45% or less. Such transmittance is limited
to the visible spectrum (400 to 700 nanometers) and is measured as the
percentage of light that is transmitted through the glass.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.03 STANDARDS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   In order to provide the highest level of protection for nesting marine
turtles and their hatchlings, the following standards for artificial light
sources on all new coastal construction seaward of the Coastal Construction
Control Line (CCCL) are adopted.
   (A)   Exterior artificial light fixtures shall be designed and positioned so
that:
      (1)   The point source of light or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not directly visible from the beach;
      (2)   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not directly or indirectly
illuminated: and
      (3)   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not cumulatively illuminated.
   (B)   Exterior artificial light fixtures within direct line-of-sight of the
beach will be permitted only if designed and installed as follows:
      (1)   Completely shielded downlight only fixtures or recessed fixtures
having low wattage (i.e., 25 watts or less) “bug” type bulbs and non-reflective
interior surfaces are used. Other fixtures that have appropriate shields,
louvers or cutoff features may also be used if they are in compliance with
division (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) above; and
      (2)   All fixtures are mounted as low in elevation as possible through
use of low-mounted wall fixtures, low bollards and ground-level fixtures.
   (C)   Floodlights, uplights or spotlights that are directly visible from the
beach, or which indirectly or cumulatively illuminate the beach, are
prohibited.
   (D)   No lighting shall be allowed on dune walkovers.
   (E)   Only low intensity lighting shall be used in parking areas within
line-of-sight of the beach. Such lighting shall be:
      (1)   Set on a base which raises the source of light no higher than 48
inches off the ground; and
      (2)   Positioned or shielded so that the light is cast downward and the
source of light or any reflective surface of the light fixture is not visible
from the beach and does not directly or indirectly illuminate the beach.
   (F)   Tinted glass shall be installed on all windows and glass doors of
single or multi-story structures within line-of-sight of the beach.
   (G)   Use of appropriately shielded low-pressure sodium-vapor lamps and
fixtures shall be required for high-intensity lighting applications such as
lighting parking areas and roadways, providing security and similar
applications.
   (H)   Temporary lighting of construction sites during the marine turtle
nesting season shall be restricted to the minimal amount necessary and shall
incorporate all of the standards of this section.
   (I)   Before granting any building permit, the City Planning and Building
Department shall determine that all proposed development complies in all
respects with the standards imposed in this section.
   (J)   Permits will not be required to install utility leased lighting, but
all such lighting shall comply in all respects with the standards imposed in
this chapter.
   (K)   For any coastal construction completed after the effective date of
this chapter, the lighting shall not be changed without first obtaining a
permit from the county. Such permits shall only be issued when the proposed
lighting plan complies with this chapter.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.04 STANDARDS FOR EXISTING LIGHTING.
   In order to provide the highest level of protection for nesting marine
turtles and their hatchlings, the county hereby adopts all of the following
standards for existing artificial lighting sources, including utility leased
lighting, seaward of the CCCL.
   (A)   Existing artificial light fixtures shall be repositioned or modified
so that:
      (1)   The point source of light or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not directly visible from the beach;
      (2)   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not directly or indirectly
illuminated; and
      (3)   Areas seaward of the frontal dune are not cumulatively illuminated.
   (B)   The following measures may be taken to comply with this section:
      (1)   Reposition fixtures so that the point source of light or any
reflective surface of the light fixture is no longer visible from the beach;
      (2)   Replace fixtures having an exposed light source with fixtures
containing recessed light sources or shields;
      (3)   Replace traditional light bulbs with yellow “bug” type bulbs not
exceeding 25 watts;
      (4)   Replace non-directional fixtures with directional fixtures that
point down and away from the beach;
      (5)   Replace fixtures having transparent or translucent coverings with
fixtures having opaque shields covering an arc of at least 180 degrees and
extending an appropriate distance below the bottom edge of the fixture on the
seaward side so that the light source or any reflective surface of the light
fixture is not visible from the beach;
      (6)   Replace pole lamps with low-profile, low-level luminaries so that
the light source or any reflective surface of the light fixture is not visible
from the beach;
      (7)   Replace incandescent, fluorescent and high intensity lighting with
the lowest wattage low-pressure sodium-vapor lighting possible for the specific
application;
      (8)   Permanently remove or permanently disable any fixture which cannot
be brought into compliance with the provisions of these standards; and
      (9)   Disconnect utility leased lighting during the marine turtle nesting
season.
   (C)   The following measures shall be taken as applicable to reduce or
eliminate the negative effects of interior light emanating from doors and
windows within line-of-sight of the beach:
      (1)   Apply window tint or film that meets the standards for tinted
glass;
      (2)   Rearrange lamps and other moveable fixtures away from windows;
      (3)   Use window treatments (e.g., blinds, curtains) to shield interior
lights from the beach; and
      (4)   Turn off unnecessary lights.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.05 PUBLIC AWARENESS.
   Any person submitting an application for coastal construction activities
within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city shall be informed of the
existence of and the requirements concerning artificial hunting and marine
turtle protection by the City Planning and Building Department.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.06 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   Upon notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Planning and
Building Department shall give notice to any person who violates this chapter
by a certified letter to the property address listed by the County Tax
Collector’s office. The letter shall describe the violation and shall enclose a
brochure provided by Department of Environmental Protection and a copy of the
ordinance. Such persons shall immediately correct any noticed violation.
Failure to correct any noticed violation shall be punishable in the same manner
as a misdemeanor and punishable as provided by F.S. § 125.69. Each day of any
such violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. The Department
of Environmental Protection and the Florida Marine Patrol shall have authority
to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.07 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed in order to
effectively carry out its purpose. Where any provision of this chapter refers
to or incorporates another provision, ordinance, statute, rule, regulation,
policy, official publication or other authority, it refers to the most current
version, incorporating any amendments thereto or redesignation thereof.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 93.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on April 2, 2002.
(Ord. 399, passed 10-9-2001)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Duty to remove
   
94.03   Determination of nuisance
   
94.04   Notice to abate nuisance to be given
   
94.05   Service of the notice to abate nuisance
   
94.06   City action with failure to comply
   
94.07   Recovery by city of expenses of nuisance removal
   
94.08   Violation
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE shall mean any of
the following:
      (1)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk and other abandoned
materials;
      (2)   Any excessive accumulation of untended growth of weeds, undergrowth
or other dead or living plant life upon a developed lot;
      (3)   Any grass, underbrush or weeds which exceeds 18 inches in height;
      (4)   Any unsafe dwelling or structure;
      (5)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death;
      (6)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted,
performed or maintained; and
      (7)   Unsheltered storage for a period of 30 days or more within the
corporate limits of this city of vehicles, boats, machinery, implements or
equipment or personal property of any kind which are no longer safely usable
for the purposes for which they were manufactured.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE shall include, but
is not limited to, any of the following: abandoned, discarded, unused objects
or equipment such as automobiles, boats, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, cans or containers.
(1998 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991; Ord. 285, passed 12-14-1993)
§ 94.02 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any previously developed lot to remove
or cause to be removed from such lot all excessive growth of weeds, underbrush
or dangerous trees, and to remove or cause to be removed all debris, rubbish,
trash, abandoned vehicles, boats, refrigerators and other articles as defined
in §
94.01.
(1998 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.03 DETERMINATION OF NUISANCE.
   The City Code Enforcement Officer shall identify and respond to any
complaint of nuisance.
(1998 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.04 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE TO BE GIVEN.
   (A)   Should the owner of any previously developed lot fail, refuse or
neglect to remove or cause to be removed therefrom any accumulation of debris,
rubbish, trash, abandoned vehicles, boats, refrigerators and other household
items, or dangerous trees, or should the owner of any previously developed lot
fail, refuse or neglect to remove or cause to be removed therefrom all
excessive growth of weeds, underbrush and dangerous trees, such owner, if the
real estate is unoccupied, or such owner and occupant of occupied real estate,
shall be served in writing directing such owner to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Such notice shall further state, that in default of the performance of
the above condition, the city may, as set forth in §
93.06, cause the same to be done, and charge the cost and expense incurred in
doing or having such work done, to the owner of such property, and that suit
may be filed seeking all such costs and expenses, as well as injunctive relief,
and all attorney’s fees and costs incurred in such litigation.
(1998 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.05 SERVICE OF THE NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Service upon the owner of the notice of violation shall either be by
personal service or by mailing the notice to the addressee’s last known address
as it appears on the records of the city.
   (B)   In the event the lot is unoccupied and the address of the owner is
unknown, service of the notice shall be made upon the owner by posting the
notice on the lot with a like notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation.
(1998 Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.06 CITY ACTION WITH FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   In the event that the owner or other parties in interest shall fail to
comply with an order made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the city,
acting through the City Administrator or Mayor, is authorized to vacate,
demolish or remove or otherwise abate the nuisance in accordance with such
order, either with city forces or by independent contractor.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies prescribed in this chapter, and cumulative
thereof, if it shall be brought to the attention of the City Council, and it
shall be determined that any such nuisance, or nuisances, are likely to have an
immediate adverse effect upon the public health, comfort or safety, then the
City Council may, by appropriate resolution or motion, order such nuisance or
nuisances summarily abated by the city in a reasonably prudent manner.
(1998 Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.07 RECOVERY BY CITY OF EXPENSES OF NUISANCE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city is damaged by the creation of a nuisance within the city, and
the cost of nuisance removal has become a significant expense to the city. It
is intended that persons responsible for such expenses shall bear the costs of
their removal. In order to recover the cost of nuisance removal, the city may
bring a civil action against any person believed to be responsible for the
creation of a nuisance. The city may, in order to avoid the necessity of the
institution of such action, make an offer of settlement to any person believed
to be responsible for the creation of a nuisance. If the settlement offer is
accepted, no action will be instituted by the city.
   (B)   If such action is brought, all costs and expenses of nuisance removal
shall be recoverable, as well as injunctive relief to prevent such actions in
the future, and further, the city shall be entitled to recover all reasonable
and actual attorney’s fees and costs incurred in said litigation, including
appellate attorney’s fees and costs.
(1998 Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991)
§ 94.08 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any landowner to suffer, maintain or permit
to remain any accumulation of rubbish or trash, abandoned vehicles, boats,
refrigerators, stoves, household articles, other appliances, furniture, junk,
abandoned equipment or other nuisances as defined in §
94.01.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any previously developed lot
located within the city to suffer, maintain or permit to remain dangerous trees
or any accumulation of weeds or undergrowth as defined in §
93.01. (Wild flowers are exempt.)
(1998 Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991; Ord. 285, passed 12-14-1993)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as provided by state statute.
(1998 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 256, passed 12-10-1991; Ord. 285, passed 12-14-1993)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Camping and tenting on public property prohibited
   
95.02   Public pier regulations
   
95.03   Swimming in certain areas of canal prohibited
   
95.04   Municipal canal park facilities
Privately-Owned Motor Propelled Vessels
   
95.15   Disclaimer of liability
   
95.16   Definitions
   
95.17   Operation of motor-driven floating devices restricted
   
95.18   Airborne rides restricted
   
95.19   Management of beach business
   
95.20   Swimming in marked channel prohibited
   
95.21   Location of beach amusements
Idle Speed/No Wake Zone for Canal Waters
   
95.35   Definitions
   
95.36   Establishing idle speed/no wake zones
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals on public beaches prohibited, see §
90.13
   Lighting near beaches, see
Chapter 93
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 CAMPING AND TENTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any structure on any public
property within the city limits for the purpose and with the intention of using
such structure as living or overnight sleeping quarters for any period of time;
however, the City Council may, in its discretion, designate certain public
property within the city limits which shall be available for the erection of
structures to be used as living or overnight sleeping quarters.
(1998 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 188, passed 6-10-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 PUBLIC PIER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules shall apply to the city pier.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dive from, launch boats
from, or throw/push any articles, items or other paraphernalia, other than
fishing tackle, from the pier.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, ride surfboards,
operate boats of any kind, or otherwise occupy the waters within a 50-foot area
of the pier.
      (3)   Non-official motorized vehicles, bicycles, skateboards,
rollerblades and similar modes of transportation are prohibited from the pier.
Wheelchairs and motorized vehicles for handicapped individuals are exempt from
this rule.
      (4)   Dogs, cats and other pets are prohibited from the pier.
      (5)   Open flames are prohibited.
      (6)   Glass bottles are prohibited.
      (7)   Sleeping or camping on the pier is prohibited.
   (B)   In addition to the above rules, the following wildlife protection
rules shall apply regarding sea turtles.
      (1)   Do not cast your line where sea turtles are surfacing to breath.
      (2)   If you hook or entangle a sea turtle on your line, contact the City
Hall immediately at (850) 648-5700 or, FWC at 1-888-404-3922.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement/Animal Control Officer should gently attempt
to retrieve the turtle in accordance with the approved marine turtle protection
plan. If required, cut the line close to the hook and remove line that has
become entangled around the turtle. Avoid the turtle’s mouth and flipper claws;
use blunt scissors/knife to cut line.
      (4)   Do not lift the turtle above the water by pulling the line (this
will result in further injury). If the distance to the pier from the water is
too large to bring the turtle up safely, cut the line as short as possible to
release the turtle.
      (5)   Turtles with serious cuts and/or ingested or deeply imbedded hooks
need veterinary care.
      (6)   Injured sea turtles shall be kept wet and in the shade and a
qualified veterinarian (or other permitted and qualified person as determined
by the FWC) shall be immediately notified at 1-888-404-3922.
(1998 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 166, passed 9-10-1985; Ord. 564, passed 10-14-2008)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 SWIMMING IN CERTAIN AREAS OF CANAL PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim in the boat channel of the city
canal in an area extending from the confines of the uppermost marina to the
mean low water mark of the Gulf of Mexico, where the canal empties into the
Gulf of Mexico. This prohibition includes the area 100 feet on each side of the
jetties at the entrance to the Gulf.
(1998 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 191, passed 7-8-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 MUNICIPAL CANAL PARK FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall perform routine dredging throughout the dock facility
to ensure safe navigation and mooring. All dredging shall be performed in
compliance with all permits, regulations or guidelines in accordance with the
proper state and federal agencies.
   (B)   The city shall provide and maintain a minimum of one restroom facility
within the park. Additional facilities such as restrooms, showers and others
may be provided based upon demand.
   (C)   Fish cleaning stations shall be provided on upland sites as determined
on necessity and location. The dumping or discarding of fish carcasses, unused
bait, garbage or any other materials, which could cause environmental damage or
property damage is prohibited within the confines of the Mexico Beach Canal.
   (D)   Trash receptacles shall be provided and maintained throughout the park
facility by the city or its designee.
   (E)   It is shall be necessary that slips 1 through 11 be reserved for
vessels larger than 30 feet in length and that slips 12 through 33 be reserved
for vessels less than 30 feet in length. The City Administrator may authorize
exceptions on an as needed basis.
   (F)   The City Administrator shall be the designated employee serving in the
capacity of “Harbor Master”.
      (1)   It shall be his or her responsibility to manage and control the use
of all facilities connected with the Mexico Beach Canal Park and Recreational
Facilities.
      (2)   As necessary, the Harbor Master shall have the authority to
designate in writing an individual to serve in the capacity of Assistant Harbor
Master to assist him or her in the daily functions of the facility operation.
      (3)   One canal slip or parking area shall be reserved for use by the
Canal Department dredge(s), boat or other city vessels and one canal slip shall
be reserved for use by the Harbor Master, or designee.
   (G)   The following acts are prohibited and shall constitute a violation of
this section.
      (1)   No permanent live-a-board vessels shall be allowed.
      (2)   The dumping or discharging of waste holding tanks is prohibited.
      (3)   Mooring of a vessel without prior authorization.
      (4)   No vessel underway shall create a wake.
      (5)   The use of a utility service without prior authorization.
      (6)   Any unsafe act, which may constitute a public safety hazard.
      (7)   Any unapproved structural changes or additions to the canal slips,
including adding an unauthorized storage box, shall be prohibited.
   (H)   The city shall maintain proper warning and control devices such as day
markers, “No Wake” signs and navigational lighting to provide a safe and lawful
environment.
(Ord. 462, passed 10-14-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
PRIVATELY-OWNED MOTOR PROPELLED VESSELS
§ 95.15 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Neither the city nor any of its agents, officers or employees,
shall be liable for any negligence, fault or wrongdoing of any person or
business operating under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The right of the city to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
shall not be construed as a duty, and the city shall not be responsible for
failing to enforce any of the provisions of this subchapter or for acting or
failing to act upon any information obtained under this subchapter.
   (B)   The standards herein contained are minimum standards intended for the
protection of the public generally under commonly prevailing circumstances.
(1998 Code, § 92.35) (Ord. 274, passed 12-13-1988)
§ 95.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACH AMUSEMENT. The rental, lease or hire within the city of a motor driven
floating device (as defined in this section) for use on or in the waters of the
Gulf of Mexico in exchange for a fee or value.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN FLOATING DEVICE. This term means and includes without
limitation, a jet ski, wave runner, personal watercraft as defined in F.S. §
327.02(30), or other vessel propelled or powered by machinery and capable of
transporting one or more persons.
(1998 Code, § 92.36) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993)
§ 95.17 OPERATION OF MOTOR-DRIVEN FLOATING DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to rent, lease or hire within the
city, a motor-driven floating device for use on or in the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico, or solicit the same within the city, unless:
      (1)   There is provided for each rental location a water channel
perpendicular to the shoreline, not less than ten feet in width, and marked by
at least one orange or red buoy not less than 60 inches in circumference and
anchored 300 feet from the shoreline, and two orange or red cones or signs not
less than 28 inches high erected at the water line;
      (2)   Privately-owned motor-driven floating devices operating from the
water’s edge are required to depart the sandy beaches perpendicular to the
shoreline at idle speed for a distance of not less than 300 feet before
increasing speed.
         (a)   Returning to the beaches they are required to approach at idle
speed from a point 300 feet offshore and perpendicular to the shoreline.
         (b)   Privately-owned motor-driven floating devices when departing the
municipal canal system will depart at idle speed.
         (c)   Upon return idle speed will be assumed at the channel entrance.
      (3)   There shall be posted, within 50 feet landward of such channel a
sign posting the established speed limit of idle speed for all watercraft
operating within the channel and canal system.
   (B)   No person shall operate any rented, leased or hired motor-driven
floating device within 300 feet of the edge of the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico, unless operating within a channel properly marked pursuant to division
(A)(2) above.
(1998 Code, § 92.37) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 AIRBORNE RIDES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or assist in
conducting, in whole or in part within the city, a parasail, kite or similar
airborne ride on or above the waters of the Gulf of Mexico within 300 feet of
the edge of the sandy beaches or the water’s edge of the Gulf of Mexico within
the city limits.
   (B)   Narrow beaches and the close proximity of power lines present a clear
and present danger of personal injury.
(1998 Code, § 92.38) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 MANAGEMENT OF BEACH BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manage or control any beach business
in violation of this section.
(1998 Code, § 92.39) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 SWIMMING IN MARKED CHANNEL PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly swim within any channel properly marked pursuant
to §
95.17(A).
(1998 Code, § 92.40) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 LOCATION OF BEACH AMUSEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide or offer any beach amusement
on property that is not properly zoned for such activity.
(1998 Code, § 92.41) (Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993) Penalty, see §
95.99
IDLE SPEED/NO WAKE ZONE FOR CANAL WATERS
§ 95.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL. Any Code Enforcement Officer with the city, the Harbor
Master or his or her designee, and any other law enforcement officer as
described in F.S. § 327.70.
   IDLE SPEED/NO WAKE. A vessel cannot proceed at a speed greater than that
speed which is necessary to maintain steerage way.
   IDLE SPEED/NO WAKE ZONE. Indicates a boating restricted area which has been
established to protect the safety of the public.
   WAKE. All changes in the virtual height of the water’s surface caused by the
passage of a vessel including, but not limited to, a vessel’s bow wave, stern
wake and propeller wash.
(Ord. 425, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 95.36 ESTABLISHING IDLE SPEED/NO WAKE ZONES.
   (A)   Idle speed/no wake zones are established for all navigable canal
waters located north of the Gulf of Mexico and extending inland within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The city shall erect, or cause to be erected, appropriate signs in
designated idle speed/no wake zones within the city subject to state and
federal regulations.
(Ord. 425, passed 9-9-2002) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.04 or
95.15 through
95.21 for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §
95.02 shall be fined not more than $50, or jailed for not in excess of ten
days, or both such fine and jail sentence.
      (3)   Any person or persons who violate any provision of §§
95.15 through
95.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as
provided by the state statutes.
(1998 Code, § 92.99)
   (B)   Violations of §
95.04 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by imprisonment
of a period not to exceed 60 days or a fine not to exceed $500 or both.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §
95.36 shall be punished as a non-criminal infraction. All authorized personnel
may issue a code enforcement citation with a fine of up to $50.
      (2)   Law enforcement officers may issue a uniform boating citation as
set forth in F.S. § 327.74. All penalties are set forth by F.S. § 327.73.
(Ord. 166, passed 9-10-1985; Ord. 274, passed 5-11-1993; Ord. 425, passed 9-9-
2002; Ord. 462, passed 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Road Improvement Assessments
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Procedures for providing road improvements
   
96.03   Public hearing; notice required
   
96.04   Granting or denial of petition
   
96.05   Assessment roll; mailing to property owners
   
96.06   Presentation of complaints; adjustment of assessments; recording of
lien
   
96.07   Payment of assessments; penalty for delinquency
   
96.08   Foreclosure of assessment lien
ROAD IMPROVEMENT ASSESSMENTS
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be referred to as the “Mexico
Beach Road Improvement Assessment Subchapter”.
(1998 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.02 PROCEDURES FOR PROVIDING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS.
   Upon receipt of a petition signed by 60% of the property owners abutting any
road in the incorporated limits of the city stating that the property owners
desire the City Council to implement procedures to provide the requested road
improvement with the cost, or a portion of the cost, to be paid by assessments
of all abutting property owners, the City Council shall implement the
procedures that follow in §§
96.03 through
93.08.
(1998 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.03 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City Council shall fix the date of a public hearing on the
petition. Notice of the hearing shall be given in writing to each property
owner abutting the street or road to be improved, the notices to be mailed to
the address shown on the then current tax assessment rolls of the county.
Additionally, notice of the hearing shall be published once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county at least seven days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (B)   Notice referred to above shall specify the beginning and ending points
of the road improvement project, the type of road improvement to be made, the
estimated cost of the road improvement and the proposed method or alternative
methods for the payment of the cost of the improvement.
(1998 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.04 GRANTING OR DENIAL OF PETITION.
   The City Council shall consider all comments and information provided at the
public hearing and all other information deemed relevant by the Council and
shall grant or deny the petition. If the petition is not granted, a similar
petition may not be re-presented to the City Council for a period of six
months. If the petition is granted, the Council shall by motion duly made,
passed and recorded in the minutes of the meeting, authorize commencement of
the project specifying the beginning and ending points of the project, the cost
of the project and the method of payment of such costs and any other special
instructions or conditions imposed by the Council.
(1998 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.05 ASSESSMENT ROLL; MAILING TO PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Upon passage of the motion authorizing commencement of the project, an
assessment roll showing the properties to be assessed in accordance with the
method of assessment provided for by the Council shall be prepared by the City
Administrative Department and filed in the minutes of the city. The assessment
roll shall show at least the following information: the lots and lands
assessed, the amount of assessment against each lot or parcel of land and if
the assessment is to be paid in installments, the number of annual installments
in which the assessment is divided shall be entered and shown upon the
assessment roll.
   (B)   Upon completion of the assessment roll, a copy of the assessment roll
shall be mailed to the address of each property owner as shown by the then
current tax assessment rolls of the county. Along with the assessment roll,
there shall be mailed a notice specifying a date and time at which property
owners may appear before the City Council to present any complaints relative to
the assessments.
(1998 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.06 PRESENTATION OF COMPLAINTS; ADJUSTMENT OF ASSESSMENTS; RECORDING OF
LIEN.
   After hearing any complaints of any property owners, the City Council may
equalize, adjust or otherwise alter any assessments so as to ensure the
fairness of the assessment and so as to ensure that no undue hardships are
created. At the conclusion of the hearing, the assessments shall be recorded by
the Clerk of the City Council in a special book to be known as the “Road
Improvement Lien Book”, and in the official records of the county maintained by
the Clerk of the Circuit Court, and such record of the lien shall constitute
prima facie evidence of its validity.
(1998 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.07 PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY.
   The assessments shall be payable at the time and in the manner stated in the
City Council’s motion authorizing commencement of the project and the special
assessments shall remain liens, co-equal with the lien of all state, county,
district and municipal taxes, superior in dignity to all of the liens, title
and claims, until paid. Any assessment not paid when due and payable shall have
added thereto a penalty at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(1998 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
§ 96.08 FORECLOSURE OF ASSESSMENT LIEN.
   Upon the failure of any assessment to be paid within one year of the date
due and payable, the City Council shall cause the necessary legal proceedings
to be brought to foreclose the assessment lien including penalties, court costs
and reasonable attorney’s fees assessed as a part of the foreclosure
proceeding. The foreclosure proceeding shall be prosecuted to a sale and
conveyance of the property involved in the proceeding, as now provided by law
in suits to foreclose mortgages.
(1998 Code, § 91.08) (Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1983)
CHAPTER 97: BEACH REGULATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Regulation of use and conduct on the beach and water bodes
   
97.03   Enforcement
 
   
97.99   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Beach vending, see
Chapter 114
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACH.  That area of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low-water line of the Gulf of Mexico, to the frontal dune, or where there
is no frontal dune, to the line of permanent vegetation or construction,
whichever is more seaward.
   UNATTENDED.  Not closely and plainly accompanied by its owner or by someone
acting as the owner's proxy who is present on the beach with the item and
looking after it.
(Ord. 687, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 97.02 REGULATION OF USE AND CONDUCT ON THE BEACH AND WATER BODIES.
   (A)   Obstructions on the beach.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to leave an item of
personal property unattended on the beach between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m., except as
otherwise permitted by ordinance.
      (2)   Exceptions. This prohibition does not apply to:
         (a)   Items placed by the city or another governmental agency in
furtherance of health, safety, and welfare purposes;
         (b)   Trash containers;
         (c)   Lifeguard stands and lifeguard storage containers and safety
devices;
         (d)   Signs placed by the city or another governmental entity;
         (e)   Items placed by persons acting under authority of the City
Administrator or other governmental agency on behalf of the city or the
governmental agency;
         (f)   Structures, including without limitation boardwalks, decks, and
dune walkovers constructed and permitted by the city, Bay County or the State
of Florida;
         (g)   Items placed on the beach by persons who have authorization or a
permit to engage in marine turtle nesting research issued by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service of State of Florida; and
         (h)    Items expressly exempted by city ordinance from the “Leave No
Trace” requirement, either in all cases or pursuant to a specific permit or
approval.
      (3)   State of Emergency. All items, whether permitted or not, shall be
removed from the beach within 24 hours following a declaration of a state of
emergency for Bay County or the city due to and in advance of a hurricane or
other severe weather systems.
      (4)   Discarded items. Any item of personal property left on the beach
unattended in violation of this chapter shall be deemed discarded by its owner
and shall become the property of the city if removed by the city pursuant to
this chapter, which may dispose of the item in any manner it sees fit. Items
meeting the definition of "litter" under any Florida civil or criminal statute
will be disposed of immediately. All other items will be placed in a designated
outdoor space on city property while they await disposal. Members of the public
may contact City Hall or Public works and may retrieve items they left on the
beach once they have provided an accurate description of the discarded items,
if the items have not been disposed of yet. The city will not be responsible
for damage to or loss of items that were collected due to a violation of this
chapter.
      (5)   Glass of any kind is hereby prohibited on the beach within city
limits.
   (B)   Digging holes on beach. 
      (1)   It shall be required that all holes dug on the beach are to be
attended at all times and shall be completely filled and restored to their
original level condition prior to leaving the beach the same day it is created
unless part of a construction project permitted under the Florida Building Code
or similar law.
      (2)   No holes dug on the beach within city limits may exceed a depth of
two feet and any hole dug on the beach must be filed in by the person or
persons who dug the hole before leaving the hole unattended for any length of
time.
(Ord. 664, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. 687, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 783, passed 5-
10-2022) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the city to enforce all
provisions of this chapter. City employees or contractors will not remove
personal property from the beach if it is being attended, but a city employee
may issue a warning or citation if a city employee observed a violation during
a prior night.
(Ord. 664, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. 687, passed 11-14-2017)
§ 97.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or
amendments thereto; who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with order or
notice or in pursuance and by authority of this chapter shall be subject to the
loss of their property and has committed a civil infraction punishable as
provided by the City Code.
   (B)   The penalty for violating §
97.02 shall be a fine of $50.
(Ord. 664, passed 2-28-2017; Ord. 687, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 783, passed 5-
10-2022)
CHAPTER 98: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Permit required
   
98.03   Permit not required (exemptions)
   
98.04   Permit fee
   
98.05   Permit denial
   
98.06   Conditions
   
98.07   Conformance with other regulations
   
98.08   Permit issuance
   
98.09   Indemnification agreement
   
98.10   Insurance requirements
   
98.11   City services and equipment use fees
   
98.12   Cleanup charge
   
98.13   Revocation of permit
   
98.14   Inspection required
 
   
98.99   Violation; penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the
meanings indicated unless their context clearly requires otherwise.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization that seeks a special event permit from
the city to conduct, organize, or sponsor an event governed by this section. An
applicant must be 18 years of age or older.
   ATHLETIC EVENT. An occasion in which a group of persons collectively engage
in a sport or form of physical exercise on a public street, sidewalk, alley or
other public right-of-way, which obstructs, delays, or interferes with the
normal flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or does not comply with traffic
laws and controls. ATHLETIC EVENTS  include bicycle and foot races, bike-a-
thons, walk-a-thons, and other organized walks.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator in consultation with police and
relevant department heads.
   MOTORCADE. Any organized procession containing ten or more vehicles, except
funeral processions, upon a public street, sidewalk, alley or other public
right-of-way.
   PARADE.  Any march or procession consisting of people, animals, bicycles,
vehicles or combination thereof, except funeral processions, on any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public right-of-way, which obstructs, delays
or interferes with the normal flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or does
not comply with traffic laws or controls.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any parade, fair, show, festival, carnival, tent sale, rally,
block party, filming of movie, video or television show, motorcade, run, bike-
a-thon, race, walk, athletic event, or other attended entertainment or
celebration that is to be held, in whole or in part, upon publicly owned
property or public right-of-way, or if held wholly upon private property, but
will nevertheless affect or impact the ordinary and normal use by the general
public of public property or public rights-of-way within the vicinity of the
special event. SPECIAL EVENT shall also mean any activity to be held, in whole
or in part, upon publicly owned or controlled property or public rights-of-way,
where merchandise or services are offered for sale, whether by for profit or
nonprofit organizations. Events held at the Civic Center pursuant to a rental
arrangement under § 33.14 of the City Code shall not be considered SPECIAL
EVENTS.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or organization desiring to conduct or organize a special
event in the city shall first obtain a special event permit from the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Any applicant who desires to conduct or organize a special event shall
submit a complete application for a special event permit, including a site plan
depicting existing facilities and proposed temporary facilities and activities,
as soon as possible prior to the scheduled start of the special event, but
shall submit such application at least 60 days prior to the scheduled start of
the special event.
      (1)   If the special event will have minimal impact on city resources and
will not vary from occurrence to occurrence, multiple occurrences within the
same calendar year may be included in a single application.
      (2)   The City Administrator may, at his or her discretion, and in
consideration of traffic circulation, security, safety, parking, or all of
these, deny the issuance of a special event permit in the event two or more
such events are proposed to occur on the same day.
         (a)   In the event such aforementioned determination is made,
application approval preference shall be granted to an exempt organization
under § 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
         (b)   In the event two or more exempt organizations under § 501(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 propose to conduct a special event on the
same day, preference will be given to the exempt organization that first
completed an application.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall review the application for completeness
and notify the applicant of any incomplete items within five working days of
the receipt of the application.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall approve, approve with modifications or
conditions, or deny the application within ten working days of receipt of a
complete application.
      (2)   The City Administrator may deny the issuance of a special event
permit to an applicant based on the considerations detailed by §
98.05.
      (3)   A decision of the City Administrator to deny an application under
this division shall be subject to appeal to the City Council.
   (D)   The required permit must be displayed at the site in a conspicuous
location for the duration of the function.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED (EXEMPTIONS).
   A special event permit is not required for the following:
   (A)   Funeral and wedding processions and ceremonies. This exemption does
not apply to associated parties, celebrations, or activities that are not part
of the ceremony;
   (B)   Parades involving a total of 50 or fewer pedestrians marching along a
parade route restricted to marching on sidewalks or non-paved areas of right-
of-way, and crossing streets only at pedestrian crosswalks in accordance with
traffic regulations and controls.
   (C)   Special events sponsored in whole by the city;
   (D)   Gatherings of 50 or fewer people in a city park or the beach, unless
merchandise or services are offered for sale.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.04 PERMIT FEE.
   The application for a special event permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee of $100. A reduced fee of $25 applies to organizations qualified under §
501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code. The City Special Events Committee and the
City Community Development Council are exempt from a permit fee.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.05 PERMIT DENIAL.
   The City Administrator may deny an application for a special event permit if
he or she determines, from a consideration of the application, or other
pertinent information, that:
   (A)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental information
requested from the applicant, is found to be false, misleading or nonexistent
in any material detail, or the applicant has evaded or suppressed any material
fact; or
   (B)   The proposed event would not comply with all other applicable city
ordinances or the proposed event would be unlawful or constitute a public
nuisance; or
   (C)   The applicant fails to complete the application form after having been
notified of the additional information or documents required; or
   (D)   The applicant refuses to agree, to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of this chapter and the permit; or
   (E)   It is found that the purpose of the special event is principally
devoted to the advertising of a commercial product or service; or
   (F)   The time, route, hours, location and size of the special event will
unnecessarily disrupt the movement of traffic within the area; or
   (G)   The special event is of a size or nature that requires the diversion
of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the
event, site and contiguous areas, that allowing the special event would
unreasonably deny police protection to the remainder of the city and its
residents; or
   (H)   Another special event permit application has already been received, or
has already been approved, to hold another event at the same time and place
requested by the applicant, or so close in time and place as to cause undue
traffic congestion, or the Police Department or another city department is
unable to meet the needs for police and other city services for both events; or
   (I)   The location of the special event would cause undue hardship for
adjacent businesses or residents; or
   (J)   The location of the event will substantially interfere with any
construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along public
property or right-of-way, or a previously granted encroachment permit; or
   (K)   The applicant has not paid the city in full for any amount due, based
on another special event held in the city or any other charge or fee invoiced
by the city to applicant that has not been appealed by the applicant.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.06 CONDITIONS.
   The City Administrator may condition the issuance of a special event permit
by imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time, place and manner of
the event, and such requirements as are necessary to protect the safety of
persons and property and the control of traffic, provided such conditions shall
not unreasonably restrict the right of free speech. Such restrictions may
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Alteration of the date, time, route or location of the event proposed
on the event application;
   (B)   Elimination of an activity that cannot be mitigated to a point as to
ensure public safety and welfare, or that causes undue liability to the city;
   (C)   Conditions concerning the area of assembly and disbanding of a parade
or other events occurring along a route;
   (D)   Conditions concerning the accommodation of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including restricting the event to only a portion of a street or
right-of-way;
   (E)   Requirements for the use of traffic cones or barricades;
   (F)   Requirements for the use of city personnel and equipment;
   (G)   Requirements for the provision of first aid or sanitary facilities;
   (H)   Requirements for the use of event oversight or security and providing
notice of permit conditions to event participants;
   (I)   Requirements to provide notice to surrounding property owners;
   (J)   Restrictions on the number and type of vehicles, animals or structures
at the event, and inspection and approval of floats, structures and decorated
vehicles for safety;
   (K)   Compliance with animal protection ordinances and laws;
   (L)   Requirement for the use of garbage containers, cleanup and restoration
of city property;
   (M)   Restrictions on the use of amplified sound;
   (N)   Compliance with any relevant ordinance or law, and obtaining any
legally required permit or license;
   (O)   Any other restriction or requirement deemed necessary to ensure public
safety and well-being;
   (P)   State Department of Health approval for all food vendors.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07 CONFORMANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   No event shall be conducted within the city unless in compliance with all
applicable city ordinances and applicable county and state requirement, to
include (a nonexclusive list):
   (A)   Adequate toilet facilities shall be available at the site or be
provided by the permittee at the site. Public or common use toilets must comply
with the Federal ADA accessibility guidelines, which require that 5% of the
total number, or no less than one toilet facility per each cluster of toilet
facilities, must be accessible to guests with disabilities.
   (B)   All electrical wiring must be installed in compliance with the
provisions of the National Electric Code. A diagram of the electrical plan must
be included with the application.
   (C)   All tents and other temporary structures shall be erected in
compliance with the provisions of the Standard Building Code and the Standard
Fire Prevention Code.
   (D)   Circus activities shall provide circus fire protection precautions and
equipment adhering to the guidelines approved under NFPA 102, including
specifications as necessary for fire safety equipment and operational
procedures.
   (E)   No tent or other temporary structure shall be situated in such a
manner that it could create a traffic hazard. All tents and other temporary
structures shall comply with the setback and buffer requirements of the land
development regulations.
   (F)   All mechanical equipment associated with amusement rides shall conform
to the requirements of the Southern Building Code Congress International
Standard Amusement Device Code, 1985 edition.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide for the
collection of solid waste and litter. All solid waste, litter and recyclable
materials shall be removed from the site following the event. For multiple-day
events, the grounds shall be maintained during each day of the event, with no
on-site accumulations that would cause a nuisance or pose a health hazard. All
solid waste must be deposited at the appropriate county landfill by a county-
approved garbage operator.
   (H)   Proof of license to sell or exhibit wildlife from the applicable state
agency.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.08 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The City Administrator shall issue the special event permit once the
application has been approved, and the applicant has agreed in writing to
comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, as well as the sections of
this chapter dealing with indemnification, insurance, fees for city services
and cleanup charges, when applicable.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.09 INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT.
   Prior to the issuance of a special event permit, the permit applicant and
authorized officer of the sponsoring organization, if any, must sign an
agreement to defend the city against, and indemnify and hold harmless the city,
its officers, employees and agents, where such claim arises, in whole or in
part, out of the activities for which such permit is issued; except any claims
arising solely out of the negligent acts or omissions of the city, its
officers, employees and agents.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Liability coverage required. The applicant/permittee of a special
event must possess or obtain general liability insurance to protect against
loss from liability for damages on account of bodily injury and property damage
arising from the special event. A certificate of insurance shall be filed with
the City Administrator 45 days prior to the special event, and shall name the
city, its officials, employees and agents, as additional named insured. A
specimen copy of the policy shall be filed ten days prior to the special event.
Insurance coverage must be maintained for the duration of the event.
   (B)   Minimum limits defined.  Coverage shall be no less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
      (1)   If food or nonalcoholic beverages are sold or served at the event,
the policy must also include an endorsement for product liability. If alcoholic
beverages are sold or served at the event, the policy must also include an
endorsement for liquor liability. The City Administrator may require additional
endorsements depending upon the proposed activity.
      (2)   If alcoholic beverages are sold or served at the special event, an
alcohol open container waiver is required by the City Council. An open
container waiver may not be provided for a public street.
   (C)   Waiver or reduction of required limits.  The City Administrator may
waive or reduce the insurance requirements of this chapter under the following
conditions.
      (1)   The applicant or an officer of the permittee organization signs a
verified statement that he or she believes the special event’s purpose is First
Amendment expression, that sales of goods or services are not a significant
aspect of the special event, and that the cost of obtaining insurance is so
financially burdensome that it would constitute an unreasonable burden on the
right of First Amendment expression. The statement shall include the name and
address of two insurance agents or other source of insurance coverage contacted
to determine insurance premium rates for insurance coverage.
      (2)   The applicant or an officer of the permittee organization signs a
verified statement that insurance coverage in the limits required is impossible
to obtain for reasons other than excessive safety risk. The statement shall
include the name and address of two insurance agents or other source of
insurance coverage contacted.
      (3)   The City Administrator determines that the insurance limits are in
excess of the reasonable risk presented by the proposed special event.
      (4)   In the event of division (C)(2) or (3) above occurring, the city
may require lower reissued insurance coverage.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.11 CITY SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT USE FEES.
   (A)   Prepayment of fees.  Upon approval of an application for a special
event permit, the City Administrator shall provide the applicant with a
statement of the estimated cost of providing city personnel and equipment. The
applicant/permittee of the special event shall be required to prepay these
estimated costs for city services and equipment ten days prior to the special
event. City services and equipment may include the use of police officers and
public works employees for traffic and crowd control, pick up and delivery of
traffic control devices, picnic tables, extraordinary street sweeping,
extraordinary park maintenance, and any other needed, requested or required
city services, and the cost of operating city equipment to provide such
services.
   (B)   Fees for city services.  Fees for city services may be adjusted
periodically and without amending this chapter, if based on increases to the
city for the cost of employing the applicable personnel, including benefits.
The initial fees for city services shall be:
      Public Works Employee      $25 per hour per employee
      Police Officer          $30 per hour per employee
      Fire Rescue            $30 per hour per employee
   (C)   Refunds or overruns. If the actual cost for city services and
equipment for the special event is less than the estimated cost, the permittee
will be refunded the difference by the city within ten days after the
conclusion and cleanup of the special event. If the actual cost for city
services and equipment on the date(s) of the special event is greater than the
estimated cost, the applicant/permittee will be billed for the difference.
   (D)   Waiver of fees.  
      (1)   The fees for the use of city services and equipment may be waived,
in part or in full, by the City Council, if in review of the application it
finds that the event is of sufficient community benefit to warrant the
expenditure of city funds without reimbursement by the applicant/permittee.
      (2)   The fees for city services and equipment may also be waived, in
part or in full, by the City Administrator if the applicant/permittee signs a
verified statement that the special event’s purpose is First Amendment
expression, that sales of goods or services are not a significant aspect of the
event, and that the cost of city services and equipment is so financially
burdensome that it would constitute an unreasonable burden on the right of
First Amendment expression.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.12 CLEANUP CHARGE.
   If the property used for the special event has not been properly cleaned or
restored, the applicant/permittee shall be billed for the actual cost by the
city for cleanup and restoration.
   (A)   Required for certain special events.  The permittee of a special event
involving the sale of food or beverages for immediate consumption, erection of
structures, horses or other large animals, water aid stations or any other
event likely to create a substantial need for cleanup, may be required to
provide documentation of pre-paid contracted cleanup services or a cleanup
deposit prior to the issuance of a special event permit.
   (B)   Refunds and overruns.  The cleanup deposit shall be returned after the
special event, if the area used for and around the special event has been
cleaned and restored to the same condition as existed prior to the special
event.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.13 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be summarily revoked by the
City Administrator or the Mayor at any time when, by reason of disaster, public
calamity, riot or other emergency, the City Administrator or Mayor determines
that the safety of the public or property requires such revocation. The City
Administrator may also summarily revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter if he or she finds that the permit has been issued based upon false
information, or when the permittee exceeds the scope of the permit. Notice of
such action revoking a permit shall be delivered in writing to the permittee by
personal service or certified mail at the address specified by the permittee in
his or her application.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.14 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   Prior to the opening of the special event, the permittee shall call for an
inspection to assure compliance with all permitting conditions. If the City
Administrator, Building Official, or Fire Marshal shall, upon inspection, find
that all permitting conditions have not been met, he or she shall notify the
applicant, indicating the corrections to be made, and then he or she shall
again inspect the work or apparatus. The special event may not commence until
the corrections have been made.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 98.99 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unlawful to organize or participate in an event without a permit. It
is unlawful for any person to organize or conduct a special event requiring a
special event permit pursuant to this chapter unless a valid permit has been
issued for the special event. It is unlawful for any person to participate in
such an event with the knowledge that the organizer of the special event has
not been issued a required, valid permit.
   (B)   Unlawful to exceed scope of permit.  The special event permit
authorizes the permittee to conduct only such an event as is described in the
permit, and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit. It is
unlawful for the permittee to willfully violate the terms and conditions of the
permit, to allow the special event to exceed the scope permitted, or for any
event participant with knowledge thereof to willfully violate the terms and
conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Violation is a misdemeanor.  Any person or organization violating the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, is subject to a penalty of a fine of not more than $500, or by
imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Additionally, the city may impose civil penalties as defined by the City Code.
(Ord. 697, passed 7-10-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   TOBACCO
      
114.   BEACH VENDING
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Levy of tax
   
110.02   Issuance of license
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Duties and responsibilities for compliance
   
110.05   Licensing requirement for businesses falling into more than one
classification
   
110.06   Transfer of license; fee
   
110.07   Exemptions
   
110.08   Term of license; fractional-year licenses
   
110.09   Delinquent license tax; penalty
   
110.10   Display of license
   
110.11   Operating a business without a license
   
110.12   Enforcement; liability for costs
   
110.13   Furnishing false information
   
110.14   License tax schedule
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LEVY OF TAX.
   A license tax is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from every person
exercising the privileges of carrying on or engaging in the business,
professions or occupations hereinafter specifically enumerated in the amounts
as fixed in §
110.14; each such amount, unless otherwise specifically stated, being the
amount payable as a license tax for exercising such privileges of carrying on
or engaging in such business, profession or occupation mentioned for each, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or engage in any business,
occupation or profession herein prescribed and designated without having first
paid the license tax as provided herein or complied with the terms hereof.
(1998 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   All licenses, to which shall be affixed the Seal of the city, shall be made
out and issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the fee set out in this
chapter. At the discretion of the City Clerk, and/or Mayor, the license
applicant may be required to appear before the City Council to seek approval
prior to issuance of an occupational license.
(1998 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain a business location or branch
office within the city for engaging in or managing any business, profession, or
occupation within the city, or carry on or engage in any business, profession
or occupation within the city unless a license shall have been procured from
the City Clerk.
(1998 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all officers and agents of all corporations to
see that all corporations comply with the provisions of this chapter, and all
officers or agents of any corporation required by this chapter to be licensed,
which shall carry on or conduct any business without having made the payment
and otherwise complied with the terms of this chapter, shall be subject to the
same penalty or penalties imposed upon persons violating the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any individual agent, rental agent, manager or
chief officer of any company, chief executive officer or resident agent of any
corporation managing the operations of any business, any rentals, any sales or
other businesses or occupations for another individual(s), owner(s) or
stockholder(s) to acquire the appropriate license(s).
   (C)   The members of any firm who fail or refuse to comply with the
provision of this chapter shall likewise be subject to the same penalty or
penalties imposed upon persons violating the provisions hereof.
   (D)   In the absence of any owner, proprietor, manager or agent, any person
operating or in charge of any business being conducted without the requirements
of this chapter having been complied with, shall be subject to the same penalty
or penalties imposed upon persons violating provisions of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.05 LICENSING REQUIREMENT FOR BUSINESSES FALLING INTO MORE THAN ONE
CLASSIFICATION.
   When any occupation, business or profession shall fall into more than one of
the classifications contained in this chapter such occupation, business or
profession shall not be required to obtain a separate license provided that the
classifications are part of commonly accepted services or business operations.
Any dispute will be referred to the City Council. (1998 Code, § 110.05) (Ord.
198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   All business licenses may be transferred to a new owner when there is
a bona fide sale of the business and upon payment of a transfer fee of $3 and
presentation to the City Clerk of evidence of the sale of the original license.
   (B)   Any license may be transferred from one location to another location
within the city upon payment of a transfer fee of $3 accompanied by a written
request and presentation of the original license to the City Clerk.
(1998 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The City Council may, upon application, waive any license required by this
chapter where the applicant for such license is a non-profit, charitable or
religious organization which has its principal place of business in the city.
Any disabled veteran shall be exempt from the application of the provisions of
this chapter, upon presentation to the City Clerk of his or her state and/or
county exemption certificate. This exemption is limited to one business or
occupation. (1998 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.08 TERM OF LICENSE; FRACTIONAL-YEAR LICENSES.
   All licenses shall be sold beginning September 1 each year and shall be due
and payable on October 1 of each year and shall expire on September 30 of the
succeeding year. Licenses issued after April 1, to expire on September 30,
shall be issued upon payment of one-half the annual fee. No other fractional
year licenses shall be issued.
(1998 Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.09 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAX; PENALTY.
   (A)   Those licenses not renewed by October 1 shall be considered delinquent
and subject to a delinquency penalty of 10% of the license fee for the month of
October, plus an additional 5% penalty of the license fee for each month of
delinquency thereafter until paid.
   (B)   After being more than three months delinquent, the licensee shall be
punished as provided by §§
110.12 and
110.99 of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person holding a license issued hereunder shall exhibit the same when
called upon to do so by any authorized officer of the city, and all such
licenses shall be conspicuously displayed at all times.
(1998 Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 OPERATING A BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   Any person engaging in or managing any business, occupation or profession
without first obtaining the occupational license required hereunder shall be
subject to a penalty of 25% of the license determined to be due, in addition to
any other penalty provided by law or ordinance.
(1998 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 ENFORCEMENT; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   The payment of license taxes levied by this chapter may be enforced by any
legal procedures authorized by law. Any person failing to adhere to the
provisions contained herein shall be liable for all attorney fees and costs for
enforcement.
(1998 Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.13 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION.
   Any person required by the provisions of this chapter to furnish
information, who shall furnish false information, shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99 of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
§ 110.14 LICENSE TAX SCHEDULE.
   The following classifications of businesses, occupations and professions
shall be subject to an occupational license tax in the amounts hereinafter set
forth:
Business, Occupation or Profession Tax
Business, Occupation or Profession                                                   Tax
Abstract companies
Person or persons, firms, corporations or associations preparing abstracts and       $62.50
charging a fee therefor or giving legal advice with same, per year
Accounting firms                                                                     $62.50
Accountants, bookkeeping and tax form service                                        $62.50
Certified Public Accountant                                                          $62.50
Adding machines
To include calculators, computers and other business machines, agents,
representatives or dealers, where principal business includes repairs and sales, per $30
year (general office supplies, sales and service)
Advertising agents or agency
Agents, each person                                                                  $12.50
Firms or corporations                                                                $62.50
Signs, billboards or other structures advertising other than property owner’s own
business or property (temporary real estate signs of three feet by four feet or less $6
excluded) per year, per sign
Signs, electrical or mechanical advertising other than licensed agency’s own       $12.50
business, per year, per sign
Agencies
Agencies for sale of stocks and bonds                                                $62.50
Each agent, salesperson or solicitor                                                 $12.50
Debt collection agency                                                               $62.50
Each agent                                                                           $12.50
Insurance                                                                            $62.50
Each agent, salesperson or solicitor                                                 $12.50
Real estate                                                                          $62.50
Each agent, salesperson or solicitor                                                 $12.50
Travel                                                                               $62.50
Animal boarding                                                                      $18
Antiques
Sales and repair, including used furniture                                           $30
Apartment houses or rental houses
Each apartment or house, per year                                                    $4
Appliance repairs and/or sales and services                                          $37.50
Architects                                                                           $62.50
Arts and crafts                                                                      $18
Attorney
Individual practice of law or law office located in the city                         $62.50
Audio equipment repair (see “electronics”)
Auctioneering
No license issued to firm, but in each case to one person named who shall personally $37.50
do the auctioneering, per year
Auctions
For each 30-day period                                                               $37.50
Automobile
Automotive parts sales                                                               $37.50
Automotive machine shop                                                              $30
Car wash (including self-service)                                                    $18
Garage repairs to automobiles, but not to include sale of gasoline and wrecker       $25
service
Paint and body shop                                                                  $30
Rentals                                                                              $37.50
Sale of automobiles
New cars                                                                             $125.00
Used cars                                                                            $37.50
Trim shop (upholstery manufacturing and/or repair)                                   $25
Wrecker service                                                                      $25
Bakery products
Doughnut and coffee shop or shops which produce bakery goods                         $12.50
Banks
Banking institutions, savings and loans                                              $125
Barber shop
First chair                                                                          $12.50
For each additional chair (in use or not)                                            $6
Beauty shop
Each additional operator                                                             $6
First operator                                                                       $12.50
Bicycle, scooter, motorcycle (only one license required)
Sales, service or repairs                                                            $18
Boats
Boat builder                                                                         $62.50
Boat repair (including motors)                                                       $25
Boat sales (new or used)                                                             $25
Boat trim: upholstery, tops, van tops                                                $25
Charter boat, each                                                                   $62.50
Commercial boats (fishing, shell-fishing and the like)                               $62.50
Sail boat rentals                                                                    $25
Bonding companies or persons, firms or corporations engaging in making bonds for     $62.50
profit
Book agents
Including magazines, periodicals and the like (note: permit must be obtained from    $25
Police Department prior to issuance of license)
Boots, shoes
Dealers                                                                              $25
Makers and repairers                                                                 $30
Bowling alleys
For each alley                                                                       $12.50
Brokers
Dealing in stocks, bonds and other securities, other than bankers (see “agencies”)
Handling or clearing shipments of merchandise on consignment                         $37.50
Merchandise agents or manufacturers representatives, carrying no stock               $37.50
Building and loan association or agents thereof                                      $125
Building maintenance materials
Sales of                                                                             $62.50
Cabinet shop
Manufacture and sales (including custom built furniture)                             $30
Carpet
Carpet cleaning                                                                      $18.00
Carpet sales                                                                         $30
Civil engineer (and/or surveyor)                                                     $62.50
Coin operated devices (excluding postage stamp machines and $0.50 and $0.10 devices
and any charitable organization device)
Each game machine, pin ball and others (except pool tables)                          $6
Music boxes, each                                                                    $12.50
Pool tables, each                                                                    $12.50
Clothing sales
Dress shop and men’s shop                                                          $62.50
Communications equipment (see “electronics”)
Contractors (see F.S. Ch. 489 and the City Building Code)
Building contractor                                                                  $50
Carpeting and floor covering
Contractor                                                                           $37.50
Class A air conditioning contractor                                                  $62.50
Class B air conditioning contractor                                                  $50.00
Class C air conditioning contractor                                                  $37.50
Commercial pool contractor                                                           $37.50
Concrete, masonry and asphalt contractor                                             $37.50
Electrical contractor                                                                $37.50
Exterminating contractor                                                             $30
General contractor                                                                   $62.50
Insulation contractor (including drywall)                                            $30
Landscaping, land-clearing, tree surgery and related services                        $37.50
Mechanical contractor                                                                $37.50
Painting contractor                                                                  $37.50
Plumbing contractor                                                                  $37.50
Residential contractor                                                               $37.50
Residential pool contractor                                                          $37.50
Roofing contractor                                                                   $37.50
Sheet metal contractor                                                               $37.50
Siding contractor                                                                    $30
Swimming pool servicing contractor                                                   $30
Welding contractor (when not in conjunction with automotive or boat repair business) $30
Convenience store                                                                    $62.50
Curb market
Fruit and vegetables                                                                 $25
Dance halls (see “night clubs”)
Dance studios                                                                        $30
Day care centers, child care nurseries, and/or nursing homes                         $62.50
Decorators, interior                                                                 $30
Doctors, dentists, physicians or surgeons
Chiropractors, therapist, naturopath and acupuncturists                              $62.50
Dentist                                                                              $62.50
Doctor; M.D.                                                                         $62.50
Optical dispensary, alone or in conjunction with other business, where lenses are    $62.50
ground, prepared and fitted according to prescription and glasses repaired
Optometrist and/or oculist                                                           $62.50
Osteopath                                                                            $62.50
Veterinarian                                                                         $62.50
Divers
Equipment sales, service, rental and school                                          $37.50
Dress shop (see “clothing sales”)
Dry cleaning pickup station
Alone or in conjunction with other licensed business                                 $12.50
Drug stores                                                                          $62.50
Electronics
Including sales and service                                                          $37.50
T.V. and radio repair                                                                $30
Electrical companies                                                                 $250
Electricians (see “contractors”)
Exterminator (see “contractors”)
Equipment rental
Hand tools and household equipment                                                   $25
Heavy equipment, including hand tools and household equipment                        $62.50
Feed, seed, fertilizer and the like                                                  $37.50
Film or photograph
Developing or finishing, local company, principal business                           $30
Finance companies
Firms or corporations liquidating accounts other than their own, whether purchased   $62.50
or not
Florist                                                                              $18
Food stores                                                                          $62.50
Furniture
New and/or used furniture sales                                                      $62.50
Repairs, including upholstery                                                        $18
Garbage collectors (trash and junk haulers)                                          $62.50
Gas, natural companies                                                               $250
Gasoline stations (dispensing gasoline, gasohol, kerosene fuel oil, lubricating oil  $62.50
and related petroleum products) (retail)
Gasoline distributors                                                                $62.50
Gem shop                                                                             $62.50
Golf
Carpet (putt-putt golf)                                                              $30
Driving range                                                                        $37.50
Miniature                                                                            $37.50
Guns
Dealer in guns and/or ammunition                                                     $18
Hardware                                                                             $62.50
Health or medical center                                                             $62.50
Health studio (see F.S. Ch. 205)                                                     $62.50
Heating fuel
Distributor: liquid or bottled gas, kerosene and/or fuel oil                         $125
Liquid, bottled or tank gas service                                                  $18
Hotels, motels
Per room (per year)                                                                  $4
Ice sales (see “vending agencies”)
Insurance (see “agencies”)
Jeweler                                                                              $62.50
Launderette
Self-service coin type                                                               $62.50
Land and development companies
When not paying real estate, broker, contractor or builder license                   $62.50
Lawyer (see “attorney”)
Liquor sales
Beer and wine                                                                        $62.50
Lounge                                                                               $125
Package                                                                              $185
Live entertainment                                                                   $37.50
Locksmith                                                                            $25
Manufacturing and/or assembly plants
1 to 10 employees                                                                    $50
11 to 25 employees                                                                   $62.50
Over 25 employees                                                                    $125
Marinas                                                                              $62.50
Marine supplies                                                                      $18
Mattress making                                                                      $30
Martial arts
School of, including Karate, Jujitsu, Judo and the like                              $30
Medium, fortune teller, palmist and the like                                         $250
Merchants
Those engaged in the sale of goods, wares and merchandise not otherwise specifically $62.50
covered
Mobile home repairs (only)                                                           $37.50
Mobile home sales
Including campers, service parts, accessories and repairs for trailers               $100
Money lenders
Short loan companies and all persons, firms or corporations, except banks or bankers
whose business includes or consists of taking, buying or selling assignment of wages $125
or salaries, earned in the future, by any person, firm or corporation, per year
Night clubs
Amusement centers, or other places where dancing is permitted, or entertainments
given whether a charge therefor is made or not. In addition to other licenses        $125
applicable and as otherwise provided, per year
Where meals are served in connection, see “restaurants”
Nurseries
Landscapers and the like                                                             $18
Office buildings, or others having offices or spaces to rent
For each office space, room, reception room or other space, per year                 $6
Office equipment
Sales and equipment                                                                  $30
Pawn broker (note: this license allows the sale only of property which has been
pledged as security for a loan); see “merchants license” and “guns” for sale of
other merchandise carried in stock for sale. Also see “coin vending devices”
Anyone who lends money on the security of personal property pledged in his or her    $62.50
keeping
Peddlers (see
Chapter 111)
Pet shops, aquariums and the like                                                    $30
Pin ball machines (see “coin operated machines”)
Print shop                                                                           $37.50
Radio and/or TV repair shop (see “electronics”)
Rentals
Any rental merchandise or service not otherwise covered                              $18
Restaurants
Cafés, including drive-ins, oyster bars and lunch counters
1 to 12 seats                                                                        $37.50
13 to 40 seats                                                                       $50
Over 40 seats                                                                        $62.50
Septic tank
Builders                                                                             $25
Cleaners                                                                             $25
Sign painters                                                                        $30
Small engine repairs                                                                 $30
Storage warehouses
Mini-warehouse (0 to 10 units), per unit, per year                                   $6
Mini-warehouse (11 units and above), per year                                        $62.50
Storage warehouses less than 1,200 square feet                                       $30
Storage warehouses above 1,200 square feet                                           $62.50
Skating rinks
License required for sale of food. See also “coin operated devices”
Stripping shop                                                                       $30
Taxi cabs
Per unit                                                                             $18
Taxidermist                                                                          $18
Telephone companies                                                                  $250
Trailer parks or campgrounds
3 to 5 trailer spaces or campsites, per year                                         $25
6 to 15 trailer spaces or campsites, per year                                        $37.50
16 and over trailer spaces or campsites, per year                                    $62.50
Tree and limb removal (see “contractor”)
Television
Cable TV service                                                                     $125
Sales, service and repair (see “electronics”)
Upholsterers (see “furniture”)
Variety store                                                                        $62.50
Vending machine dealers (coin operated devices and the like)                         $62.50
Wastewater, sewage collection or transmission systems                                $250
Each dwelling unit or other structure                                                $60
Well drillers                                                                        $25
Window and screen repairs                                                            $18
Miscellaneous note: any person engaged in a lawful business, occupation or
profession wholly or in part within the city where not otherwise provided for in     $37.50
this chapter
 
(1998 Code, § 110.14) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987; Ord. 348, passed 12-9-1997)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall fail to secure a license as provided in this chapter
and to pay, at the time of application therefor, all fees, charges and taxes
incident thereto, may be punished by a fine not exceeding $25, and each day of
continuing violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1998 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 198, passed 2-10-1987)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Peddler licensing required
   
111.02   Fee
   
111.03   Canvassing or soliciting
   
111.04   Exceptions
   
111.05   Allowable peddling locations
   
111.06   Violation
§ 111.01 PEDDLER LICENSING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler
without first obtaining a city peddler’s license. The registrant shall give his
or her complete identification, his or her signature, the name of his or her
employer, the nature of the products or services in which he or she intends to
peddle, written permission from the property owner where the peddling will
occur.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 FEE.
   Each registrant shall pay to the City Clerk a licensing fee of $50 for the
period expiring six months after the date of said licensing, or $15 for a two-
day license. No city license shall be issued involving the sale of retail food
products, neither temporary nor permanent without prior approval by the State
Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 111.03 CANVASSING OR SOLICITING.
   No person shall solicit or canvass within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Sales made to permanent merchants by commercial dealers selling in the
usual course of business;
   (B)   Solicitations or sales made by charitable institutions;
   (C)   Canvassing or soliciting for political reasons concerning federal,
state, county or local elections; or
   (D)   Youth-oriented organizations such as Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, school-
related fund raisers and the like.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011)
§ 111.05 ALLOWABLE PEDDLING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Peddling is allowed in two specific zoning categories: General
Commercial and Tourist Commercial. The peddler must coordinate and obtain
written permission from an existing or established business owner located in
the zoning categories previously mentioned.
   (B)   Peddling from vacant property is not allowed. Any peddling which is
proposed from a location on the beach also requires City Council approval.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 VIOLATION.
   Any person or persons violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the second degree, punishable as provided by state statutes.
(Ord. 581, passed 10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Declaration of businesses
   
112.03   Regulation
   
112.04   Tourism corridors
   
112.05   Distance limitation
   
112.06   Application to new churches, schools and public parks
   
112.07   Sign requirements
   
112.08   Chapter not independently authorizing use
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK, VIDEO OR NOVELTY STORE. A commercial establishment or place of
business having more than an insubstantial or incidental portion of its stock
in trade, or more than an insubstantial or incidental segment or section of its
premises devoted to the sale or display of sexually oriented products.
INSUBSTANTIAL OR INCIDENTAL means not more than 5% of its stock in trade of
books, videos or novelty items; or not more than 5% of the store’s segment or
section of its premises devoted to the sale or display of books, videos or
novelties.
   ADULT CLUB. Any place of business or commercial establishment which offers
three or more days in any 60-day period live entertainment including:
exhibition of any portion of the entertainer’s buttocks or any simulation
thereof; if female, exhibition of any portion of the entertainer’s breast below
the top of the areola or any simulation thereof; or dancing with employees or
independent contractors in exchange for compensation.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment or place of
business operating in whole or in part within an enclosed building used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” (as defined below), for observation by patrons
therein.
   CHURCH. A church, temple or other structure used on a permanent basis
primarily for public worship.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Such sexually oriented business as shall be
included in this chapter, as amended from time to time.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED PRODUCTS.
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which are distinguished or characterized
by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia, which depict or simulate
“specified anatomical areas” or are intended or designed for use in connection
with “specified sexual activities”.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public region,
buttock or female breast; and
      (4)   Sadism or masochism, including bondage and discipline.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.02 DECLARATION OF BUSINESSES.
   The following businesses are declared to be sexually oriented businesses:
   (A)   Adult book, video or novelty store;
   (B)   Adult motion picture theater; and
   (C)   Adult club.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.03 REGULATION.
   No sexually oriented business may be located on any land within the city,
other than as described within this chapter.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.04 TOURISM CORRIDORS.
   TOURISM CORRIDORS shall mean the following areas or roads within the city:
   (A)   Highway 98;
   (B)   15th Street;
   (C)   Canal Parkway;
   (D)   7th Street;
   (E)   South 37th Street; and
   (F)   Shopping center located between N. 30th Street and N. 32nd Street
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.05 DISTANCE LIMITATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be located nearer than 1,500 feet
radial spacing to the same or any other sexually oriented business nor nearer
than 1,500 feet to a:
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Public, private or parochial elementary, middle or high school;
      (3)   Public park; or
      (4)   Areas designated residential on the land use map of the city, nor
nearer than 500 feet to the nearest right of way line of any tourism corridor,
or within 500 feet of the mean high water mark of the Gulf of Mexico.
   (B)   Such distance shall be measured by radial spacing as follows: in the
case of another sexually oriented business or a church, by measuring from the
nearest corner of the applicant’s business to the nearest comer of the church
or existing sexually oriented business, excluding projections, caves or
overhangs; in the case of a school, park, residential-designated property, or
right-of-way of any tourism corridor, by measuring from the nearest corner of
the applicant’s building, excluding projections, eaves or overhangs to the
nearest point of the school grounds, park, property designated residential or
right-of-way of any tourism corridor or for areas designated residential on the
land use map of the city.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.06 APPLICATION TO NEW CHURCHES, SCHOOLS AND PUBLIC PARKS.
   Where a sexually oriented business is located in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, the subsequent locating of a church, school or
public park within 1,500 feet of such existing sexually oriented business shall
not be construed to cause such sexually oriented business to be in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.07 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the following sign
requirement.
   (A)   All signs shall be flat wall signs.
   (B)   All signs must conform to the city LDR and applicable sign ordinances.
   (C)   No sexually oriented product or pictures of a sexually oriented
product or entertainer on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or
any area where they can be viewed from a sidewalk or a public street.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
§ 112.08 CHAPTER NOT INDEPENDENTLY AUTHORIZING USE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit the establishment or
maintenance of any sexually oriented business not otherwise permitted the laws
and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 494, passed 8-9-2005)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO
Section
   
113.01   Recitals
   
113.02   Intent
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Product promotion; placement of products
   
113.05   Exceptions
   
113.06   Enforcement
   
113.07   Territory embraced
   
113.08   Effective date
§ 113.01 RECITALS.
   The recitals in the ordinance codified herein are true and correct and
incorporated herein by reference as findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.02 INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to prevent the sale or delivery of tobacco products
to persons under the age of 18 by regulating the commercial marketing and
placement of such products. This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed
to prohibit the sale or delivery of tobacco products which are otherwise lawful
or regulated pursuant to F.S. Ch. 569.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN DISPLAY UNIT. A case, rack, shelf, counter, table, desk, kiosk, booth,
stand or other surface which allows direct public access to the placed therein.
   RESTRICTED ACCESS AREA. An area reasonably physically confined with access
designated by the vendor as limited to the vendor.
   SELF-SERVICE TOBACCO MERCHANDISING. Open display of tobacco products and
point-of-sale tobacco related promotional products that the public has access
to without the intervention of the vendor.
   SNACK. Includes, but is not limited to, items such as chips, crackers,
cookies, ice cream, beef jerky, popcorn, pretzels and the like.
   SPECIALTY TOBACCO STORE. An establishment primarily in the business of
selling cigars and pipe tobacco.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Loose tobacco leaves, and products made from tobacco
leaves, in whole or in part, which can be used for smoking, sniffing or
chewing, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff
or smokeless tobacco, and chewing tobacco. TOBACCO PRODUCT also includes
cigarette wrappers. This would also include “bidis” or “beedies” which is a
tobacco product wrapped in temburni or tendu leaf or other product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT PROMOTION. Includes any advertisement, the display of any
logo, brand name, character, graphic or designs that are trademarks of a
particular brand of tobacco product. TOBACCO PRODUCT PROMOTION does not include
any public service messages sponsored by a federal, state or local government
entity or by a non-profit entity, designed to communicate the hazards of
smoking or to encourage minors to refrain from using or buying tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device that, on
the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment, dispenses tobacco
products automatically or by operation of a lockout device as defined in F.S. §
569.12.
   VENDOR. Individual, sole proprietorship, joint venture, corporation,
partnership, cooperative association or other legal entity licensed as a dealer
in tobacco products pursuant to F.S. Ch. 569, and any employee or agent of said
dealer.
   VENDOR-ASSISTED SALE. The customer has no physical access to tobacco
products without the assistance of the vendor or employee.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.04 PRODUCT PROMOTION; PLACEMENT OF PRODUCTS.
   No vendor shall place tobacco products in an open display unit unless such
unit is located in a restricted access area.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   An establishment that prohibits persons under 18 years of age on the
premises; and
   (B)   Specialty tobacco stores.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by any procedure permitted
by F.S. Ch. 162, or other applicable state law.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.07 TERRITORY EMBRACED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas of the city.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 113.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon its being filed with the Division of
Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco of the Department of Business and Professional
Regulation of the State of Florida.
(Ord. 435, passed 4-8-2003)
CHAPTER 114: BEACH VENDING
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Soliciting, canvassing, selling and renting on beach prohibited
   
114.03   Beach vending permit approval process
   
114.04   Vehicles on the beach
   
114.05   Permissible locations
   
114.06   Permissible operators
   
114.07   Permissible activities
   
114.08   Insurance requirements
   
114.09   Limited exemption from “Leave No Trace” requirement
Cross-reference:
   Beach regulations, see
Chapter 97
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACH. That area of unconsolidated material that extends landward from the
mean low-water line of the Gulf of Mexico, to the frontal dune, or where there
is no frontal dune, to the line of permanent vegetation or construction,
whichever is more seaward.
   BEACH VENDING PERMIT.  An annual permit granted pursuant to this chapter to
allow business activities that are otherwise prohibited under §
114.02.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
§ 114.02 SOLICITING, CANVASSING, SELLING AND RENTING ON BEACH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall sell or rent, or solicit or canvass for the sale
or rental of merchandise, services, goods or property of any kind or character
in, upon or from the beach without a beach vending permit.
      (2)   This prohibition includes providing goods or services on the beach
in a way that involves even the occasional presence on the beach of a person
affiliated with the business, such as to drop off or pick up items or to
provide maintenance.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to, and a beach vending permit is not
required for, a transaction or service that occurs in part on the beach, if all
of the following are true:
      (1)   The transaction is initiated and prearranged by the customer from a
business representative who is not located on the beach, a public beach access,
or a public parking lot;
      (2)   The transaction or service does not involve the use of a motor
vehicle on the beach, either as part of the activity or for delivery,
retrieval, or maintenance related to the activity; and
      (3)   The transaction or service does not involve placing a collection
bin or any unattended item on the beach.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
§ 114.03 BEACH VENDING PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Applications for a beach vending permit must be made in writing to the
City Administrator and provide all information needed to determine if all
requirements of this chapter are met.
      (1)   Applicants are required to use the city application form, but may
include additional information.
      (2)   Applications may include a request to operate one or more ATVs on
the beach in the area covered by the permit, but only if vehicular access to
the beach exists within 100 feet from the permitted area. Such requests may be
approved as part of the beach vending permit if they are otherwise consistent
with the city’s ordinances governing driving on the beach.
   (B)   Beach vending permits expire at the end of the calendar year in which
they are granted, and only apply to the location and activities specified in
the application.
   (C)   Additional locations require new applications for additional beach
vending permits.
      (1)   A $50 application fee is required for each beach vending permit.
      (2)   More than one beach vending permit may apply to a single location
if the all owners of the qualifying upland parcel provide written consent.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a beach vending permit due to
violations of the beach vending permit or applicable laws, including city
ordinances.
   (E)   Decisions regarding applications are made by the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
   (F)   An applicant may appeal any denial to the City Council, which may
approve the application upon
determining that it meets the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
§ 114.04 VEHICLES ON THE BEACH.
   (A)   The only types of vehicles allowed on the beach pursuant to a beach
vending permit are ATVs, which are defined by F.S. § 317.003 as, “any motorized
off-highway or all-terrain vehicle 50 inches or less in width, having a dry
weight of 1,200 pounds or less, designed to travel on three or more nonhighway
tires, and manufactured for recreational use by one or more persons.”
   (B)   ATVs must be operated consistent with Florida law.
   (C)   ATVs may only be operated within the permitted area and directly to
and from the beach access approved in the permit holder’s application.
   (D)   Any violation of Florida law related to the use of an ATV in
conjunction with activities under the beach vending permit, or any violation of
the requirements of this section, shall be grounds for revoking a beach vending
permit.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18; Ord. 740, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 114.05 PERMISSIBLE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Beach vending permits may only be granted for beach locations that are
part of or immediately behind (e.g., not across the street from) a parcel of
property that meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The parcel is zoned General Commercial or Tourist Commercial;
      (2)   The parcel is the location of a hotel, motel, restaurant, tavern,
or bar that currently operates validly under city and state law; if such use
discontinues for more than seven consecutive days (such as for going out of
business or seasonal closure), the beach vending permit is automatically
suspended and will go back into effect when the hotel, motel, restaurant,
tavern, or bar reopens for continuous long-term operations; and
      (3)   The location is not on beach deeded to the city or another public
agency.
   (B)   The goods permitted by this chapter to be placed upon the beach for
rental or sale shall be displayed, or stored or placed so as to avoid being an
obstacle to emergency and other permitted vehicles.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 740, passed December 10, 2019, provides that, for the remainder of the
2019 calendar year and the entirety of 2020 and 2021, the city waives the above
division (A)(2) of this § 114.05 for the locations that were eligible on
October 9, 2018 to sponsor a beach vending permit. Those locations are 719 US-
98 (the location of Toucans), 903 US-98 (the location of the Beuna Vista
Motel), 1701 US-98 (the location of the El Govenor Motel); and 2105 US-98 (the
location of the Driftwood Inn). Beach protection and restoration construction
projects will be ongoing for many months, so as a condition of permit issuance,
all holders of beach vending permits must comply with any temporary closure of
a portion of the beach and any directives of the city relating to safety
generally or construction on any portion of the beach near the location covered
by the beach vending permit. Such directives may include a requirement to
temporarily remove all beach vendor property from the beach or to adjust
activities to avoid damage to newly constructed projects on the beach.
§ 114.06 PERMISSIBLE OPERATORS.
   The following parties may be granted a beach vending permit or conduct
activities pursuant to a beach vending permit:
   (A)   The owner of the qualifying upland parcel;
   (B)   The lessee operator of the hotel, motel, restaurant, tavern, or bar
located on the qualifying upland parcel;
   (C)   A third party who has written permission from either of the two above
parties to conduct business on the beach that is on or behind the qualifying
parcel.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
§ 114.07 PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The holder of a beach vending permit may solicit, sell, or rent the
following goods or services at the location covered by a beach vending permit:
      (1)   Umbrellas;
      (2)   Hobie Cats, Sunfish, Prindles and similar sailboats;
      (3)   Jet skis and other motor-driven floating devices;
      (4)   Cabanas;
      (5)   Aqua cycles (same as water cycles);
      (6)   Floats and surfboards;
      (7)   Chairs;
      (8)   Parasail rides, kite rides, and watersled rides;
      (9)   Sailboards (but not kite boards);
      (10)   Kayaks, canoes and similar hand-paddled boats;
      (11)   Beach photography, including photographs subsequently purchased
and delivered off the beach.
   (B)   The purpose of allowing these activities pursuant to a beach vending
permit is to reasonably permit the solicitation and immediate sale or rental of
certain goods and services that serve a public need to certain commercially
oriented locations of the beach, and that are not themselves a nuisance or
detriment, without unreasonably interfering with the flow, recreation,
enjoyment and privacy of persons otherwise upon the beach.
   (C)   Wooden lounger-style chairs are prohibited on the beach, except that a
single row of wooden lounger chairs may be placed in each licensed area
equidistant from the mean high water line and the seawall or the toe of the
sand dune, or, if neither exists, then the paved surface adjoining the beach.
The location of the row of chairs may be adjusted, if approved in writing in
advance by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18; Ord. 740, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 114.08 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All holders of beach vending permits must maintain general commercial
liability insurance, naming the City of Mexico Beach as an additional insured,
in the minimum amount of $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 in the aggregate.
   (B)   Each motor-driven floating device and each combination tow boat and
parasail, kite, watersled ride, and each shuttle craft, hydro-flyer and its
shuttle craft of the like pulled by a tow boat, rented, leased or hired within
the city shall be insured against bodily injury and property damage in an
amount not less than $250,000 per occurrence with $1,000,000 aggregate, or such
insurance as is required by the State of Florida, whichever provides the
greater limits and protection of the public.
   (C)   Additionally, if the beach vending permit provides for the public to
rent, ride, or participate in any of the foregoing activities, the general
commercial liability insurance requirement is increased to $250,000 per
occurrence and $1,000,000 in the aggregate, or such insurance as is required by
the State of Florida, whichever provides the greater limits and protection of
the public.
   (D)   The city shall not issue a beach vending permit until the applicant
has provided certificates of insurance to the city, showing compliance with
these requirements and naming the city as an additional insured.
   (E)   In the event that any required insurance is canceled, the beach
vending permit shall automatically be suspended.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18)
§ 114.09 LIMITED EXEMPTION FROM “LEAVE NO TRACE” REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Booths and storage boxes used by a holder of a beach vending permit to
conduct business or store items are exempt from the city’s “Leave No Trace”
requirement, if they are located immediately next to a seawall or the toe of
the sand dune or, if neither exists, then immediately next to a paved surface
adjoining the beach.
   (B)   Wooden loungers may be left unattended on the beach overnight within
the area covered by the beach vending permit only as provided by §
114.07.
   (C)   In addition, it is not a violation of the “Leave No Trace” ordinance
for a holder of a beach vending permit to leave other items and equipment
unattended on the beach overnight within the area covered by the beach vending
permit if:
      (1)   They are typical for the type of business activities approved under
the beach vending permit; and
      (2)   They are moved landward to the seawall or the toe of the sand dune
or, if neither exists, then immediately next to a paved surface adjoining the
beach.
(Ord. 688, passed 4-11-18; Ord. 740, passed 12-10-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND PREDATORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Misdemeanors under state law adopted as municipal offenses
§ 130.01 MISDEMEANORS UNDER STATE LAW ADOPTED AS MUNICIPAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   All offenses under the laws of the state which are classified as
misdemeanors are hereby adopted by reference and made a municipal offense
against the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Persons, firms or corporations found guilty of violating any of the
several misdemeanors shall be punished as provided by law.
(1998 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 185, passed 6-10-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Public nudity prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PUBLIC NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally appear nude in a public
place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDE. The showing of any portion of the male or female genitals, pubic
area, vulva or anus with less than a fully opaque and obvious covering; the
showing of any portion of the female breast with less than a fully opaque and
obvious covering of the entire nipple and areola; or the showing of the covered
male genitals in a discerningly turgid state. A simulation of the body part
required to be covered, or that which creates the illusion of nudity, shall not
qualify as a fully opaque covering.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by the public, or where the public
is present, or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be
expected to be observed by the public, but excludes public restrooms, bathing
and locker room facilities, and those places in which nudity or exposure is
necessarily expected outside of the home. By way of example and not limitation,
a bar, lounge, restaurant, café or theater open to the public is a PUBLIC
PLACE.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. 302, passed 2-14-1995) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, or persons, violating §
131.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as provided
by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 132.99) (Ord. 302, passed 2-14-1995)
CHAPTER 132: SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND PREDATORS
Section
   
132.01   Findings and intent
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Sexual offender and sexual predator residence prohibition
   
132.04   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to certain
sexual offenders and predators
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical violence,
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators and present an
extreme threat to public safety.
      (1)   Sexual offenders are likely to use physical violence to repeat
their offenses, and most sexual offenders commit many offenses, and have many
more victims than are ever reported, and are prosecuted for only a fraction of
their crimes.
      (2)   This makes the cost of sexual offender victimization to society at
large, while incalculable, clearly exorbitant.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to promote, protect and improve the
health, safety and welfare of the city’s citizens by creating areas around
locations where children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers, where
certain sexual offenders and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing
a temporary or permanent residence.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for
five or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a
period not to exceed five days collectively during a calendar year.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-9-2006; Ord. 573, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 132.03 SEXUAL OFFENDER AND SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCE PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a violation of
F.S. §§ 794.011, 800.04, 827.071 or 847.0145, or the equivalence of such
statutes from other states, regardless of whether adjudication has been
withheld, in which the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, to
establish a permanent residence or temporary residence within 2,500 feet of any
school, designated public school bus stop, day care center, park, playground or
other place where children regularly congregate.
   (B)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to nearest
property line of a school, designated public school bus stop, daycare center,
park, playground or other place where children regularly congregate.
   (C)   Exceptions: a person residing within 2,500 feet of any school,
designated public school bus stop, daycare center, park, playground or other
place where children regularly congregate does not commit a violation of this
section if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to F.S. §§ 775.21,
943.0435 or 944.607, prior to the adopted and effective date of this chapter;
      (2)   The person was a minor when he or she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor;
      (4)   The school, designated public school bus stop or day care center
was opened after the person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to F.S. §§ 775.21,
943.0435 or 944.607; or
      (5)   The person has received a pardon and provides the city with
certified copies of such pardon.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-9-2006) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO CERTAIN
SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND PREDATORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place or structure, or part thereof,
trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
section, if such place, structure or part thereof, trailer or other conveyance,
is located within 2,500 feet of any school, designated public school bus stop,
day care center, park, playground or other place where children regularly
congregate.
   (B)   A property owner’s failure to comply with provisions of this section
shall constitute a violation of this section, and shall subject the property
owner to the code enforcement provisions and procedures as provided in this
code, including the provisions that allow the city to seek relief as otherwise
provided by law.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-9-2006) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates §
132.03 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; for a second
or subsequent conviction of a violation of this section, such person shall be
punished by a fine not exceed $1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail not
more than 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-9-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Division of platted property
   
150.02   Sign placements, removal and prohibition
   
150.03   Mexico Beach Shopping Center
   
150.04   Travel trailers, motor homes, mobile campers and recreational vehicles
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 DIVISION OF PLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be required that any division of platted property located
within the city must meet all requirements as stated in the subdivision
regulations in §§ 154.125 et seq. and § VIII, Future Land Use Element of the
Comprehensive Plan and all amendments thereto.
   (B)   All requests for division of platted property must be presented to the
Planning and Zoning Board and the City Council for approval or disapproval.
   (C)   Any request for division of platted property must be made to the City
Administrator at least one week prior to the regular scheduled meeting to
ensure that the request is placed on the agenda.
   (D)   Any application for division of platted property or rezoning of
property will require a sign advertising the subdivision be placed on the
property specifying the dates and times of the public hearings regarding the
request. Additionally, all adjacent homeowners shall be notified by certified
mail to provide adequate time to attend any public hearings regarding the
application for the subdivision.
   (E)   Any person or persons violating this section will be denied a
development order and is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree,
punishable as provided by state statutes.
(Ord. 381, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 544, passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 SIGN PLACEMENTS, REMOVAL AND PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Public lands. The placement of any sign or signs of any nature,
including political signs, except by local, state or federal governments, or
their respective agencies, on any public lands, tracts or parcels shall be
prohibited. Public lands, tracts or parcels, or portions thereof, shall
include, but not be limited to, all rights-of-way, known public easements,
parks, piers, public roads and public waterways.
   (B)   Vacant lands. The placement of any sign or signs of any nature,
including political signs, except by local, state or federal governments, or
their respective agencies, on any vacant land shall be prohibited. Vacant land
shall be defined as any lot, parcel or tract of land without a properly
approved structure erected on such land. Roads, streets, bridges and other
infrastructure or utility improvements shall not be considered a “structure”
for purposes of this section. Properly approved and erected real estate signs
advertising the vacant property on which such signs are erected shall be
permitted and shall not violate this section.
   (C)   Removal. All political signs erected during a campaign season shall be
removed within seven days following the date of conclusion of the general,
special or run-off election whereby the contest pertaining to the sign in
question has been concluded or if the candidate withdraws his or her candidacy.
All candidates are encouraged, but not required, to refrain from placement of
any campaign signs until 45 days before the general or special election in
which he or she is a qualified candidate.
   (D)   Applicable lands. This section shall apply to all real property and
lands within the jurisdiction of the city, and as may be expanded by law.
(Ord. 432, passed 3-11-2003) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MEXICO BEACH SHOPPING CENTER.
   (A)   The geographical boundaries of the “Mexico Beach Shopping Center” are
defined to encompass the area bordered on the south by U.S. Highway 98,
bordered on the east by 30th Street, bordered on the west by 32nd Street, and
having its northernmost border being the north property line of the parcel with
Parcel ID #04519-000-000 and shall be delineated on the map attached to this
section, and hereafter known as “Attachment A”.
   (B)   (1)   The following business (with Parcel number) are included in the
“Mexico Beach Shopping Center”:
         (a)   Fish House (Parcel ID #04525-000-000);
         (b)   Ace Hardware (Parcel ID #04527-000-000);
         (c)   Mango Marley’s (Parcel ID #04524-000-000);
         (d)   Beach Walk (Parcel ID #04524-020-000);
         (e)   Neon Palm (Parcel ID #04523-000-000);
         (f)   Parker Realty (Parcel ID #04129-010-000);
         (g)   Laundromat (Parcel ID #04529-000-000);
         (h)   Civic Center (Parcel ID #04521-000-000);
         (i)   Cathey’s Construction (Parcel ID #04518-000-000); and
         (j)   Vacant Lot (Parcel ID #04517-010-000).
      (2)   Due to the unique and historic nature of the shopping center area
in the city, the City Council recognizes all the buildings as non-conforming
structures and hereby grants a parking variance to each of these establishments
permitting the use of city-owned spaces to meet their parking requirements.
   (C)   Future development/change/modification shall be subject to the
following requirements and the approval of the City Council.
      (1)   Further building or property change that may require additional
parking will only be allowed in cases where the business can provide the
necessary parking on land adjacent to or included in the shopping center. This
parking must be owned by the business.
      (2)   In the event of natural disaster, or any event which destroys any
part of the building, rebuilding will be restricted to the same square footage
that existed pre-disaster/event. Any originally-platted but undeveloped lot(s)
may be developed, either alone or in conjunction with adjacent lots, in
accordance with the City of Mexico Beach Land Development Regulations and/or
any pertinent ordinances, and their square footage not be restricted or count
against the allowable square footage of the adjacent, previously-developed
lots.
      (3)   Should the owner of any other parcels of land wish to be included
in the shopping center, it must be adjacent to the shopping center and
responsible for adhering to, and complying with the requirements of the City
Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Regulations.
      (4)   Should any of the facilities in the shopping center be sold,
transferred and the like, they will still be included in the shopping center
with parking calculated at one parking space required for each 300 feet of
gross floor space; however, if the new business expands and requires additional
parking, the new business will be required to provide the additional parking
due to the expansion in addition to the original parking requirements.
      (5)   No residential units are permitted within the shopping center.
(Ord. 540, passed 7-10-2007; Ord. 834, passed 2-27-2024)
§ 150.04 TRAVEL TRAILERS, MOTOR HOMES, MOBILE CAMPERS AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES.
   The use and occupancy of travel trailers, motor homes, mobile campers and
recreational vehicles in the city should be regulated in order to promote the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the city, and that the following
holds true.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OCCUPY. Sleeping overnight in or occupying a recreational vehicle, as
defined herein, in any location or at any site longer than 12 hours.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Herein-after identified as RVs, shall be defined
as a powered or non-powered wheeled vehicle containing or accompanied by toilet
facilities, and/or cooking facilities, and shall include travel trailers, motor
homes and mobile campers, and “pop-up” campers.
   (B)   RVs may be used and occupied as office and equipment storage
facilities at the construction site of any properly permitted construction of a
commercial building.
   (C)   RVs may be used and occupied within a RV park.
   (D)   Self-contained toilets or sewage connections in or accompanying RVs
shall not be connected or dumped in the city, except to a sewer connection or
licensed dumping station adequate for the disposal of same. Such connections or
direct connections to the city’s water system shall not be allowed for RVs that
are being stored pursuant to division (F) below and connecting the city’s sewer
or water system under the circumstance shall be an immediate violation of the
City Code.
   (E)   Storage of RVs for personal use and not for compensation shall be
permitted on a parcel that has an occupied dwelling unit provided that the RV
is not occupied. Storage of an RV on a vacant parcel is not allowed.
   (F)   Except as provided herein, it shall be a misdemeanor of the second
degree to occupy, live in, dwell in, or reside in any travel trailer in the
city, and each day of such occupation shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 559, passed 7-8-2008; Ord. 760, passed 4-13-2021; Ord. 778, passed 1-11-
2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
150.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, for each such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not exceed $500 per offense or imprisonment
of up to 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 432, passed 3-11-2003)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Codes adopted
Municipal Services Impact Fee;
New Development
   
151.015   Legislative findings
   
151.016   Authority
   
151.017   Applicability
   
151.018   Intent and purpose
   
151.019   Definitions
   
151.020   Payment of municipal services impact fees
   
151.021   Dedication of land
   
151.022   Municipal services impact fee schedule
   
151.023   Trust funds established
   
151.024   Use of funds
   
151.025   Refund of fees paid
   
151.026   Exemptions and credits
   
151.027   Liability
Building Standards; Building Department
   
151.040   Members; appointment; terms
   
151.041   Chairperson; Secretary; quorum
   
151.042   Meetings
   
151.043   Records
   
151.044   Powers and duties
   
151.045   Rules, regulations
   
151.046   Contractor or Superintendent
   
151.047   Prerequisite for occupational licenses
   
151.048   Annual renewal fees
   
151.049   Unlawful acts or omissions
   
151.050   Unlawful to engage
   
151.051   Certificates of competency; required to do business
   
151.052   Reciprocity
   
151.053   Contractor’s license fees
   
151.054   Bond required for contractors
   
151.055   Liability insurance required
   
151.056   Falsification as grounds for denial of certificates
   
151.057   Records
   
151.058   Registration of out-of-town service contractors, specialty
contractors and construction industry contractors; job permit required
   
151.059   Electrical contractor qualifications
   
151.060   Contractor qualifications
   
151.061   Certificates of competency and other trades
   
151.062   Certificate
   
151.063   Permits required
   
151.064   Permits; exception
   
151.065   Fees
   
151.066   Computation for work without a permit
   
151.067   Expiration of permits
   
151.068   Re-inspection fee
   
151.069   Inspection of work
   
151.070   Concealment of installations
   
151.071   Completion of installations and certificates
   
151.072   Appeals from decisions of Inspector
   
151.073   Connections to installations
   
151.074   Certificates of approval
   
151.075   Construction, materials and appliances to conform to subchapter
regulations
   
151.076   Service equipment disconnecting means
   
151.077   Gas piping and tubing installations
   
151.078   Permit, plan checking fees
   
151.079   Unsafe buildings; declared illegal and public nuisance
   
151.080   Inspections
   
151.081   Units unfit for human habitation and the procedure for condemnation
designation; placard and stop work order removal or obstruction
   
151.082   Enforcement orders and appeals
   
151.083   Re-inspection; unsafe installations
   
151.084   Wind speed; wind-borne debris region
   
151.085   Sanitary facilities
   
151.086   Damages to public and private property
   
151.087   Recognition of county permits in annexed area
   
151.088   Ground drainage for residential buildings
   
151.089   Conflicts of law
   
151.090   Disclaimer
   
151.091   Immunity from prosecution
   
151.092   Enforcement; violation
   
151.093   Effective date
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following Codes are hereby adopted as an essential part of the
City Building Department:
      (1)   The most current edition of the State Building Code and all future
updates and editions made thereto.
      (2)   The most current edition of the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement
Code and all future updates and editions thereto.
      (3)   The most current edition of the Standard Amusement Device Code and
all future updates and editions thereto.
      (4)   The most current edition of the Standard Excavation and Grading
Code and all future updates and editions thereto.
      (5)   The most current edition of the Standard Housing Code and all
future updates and editions thereto.
   (B)   These adopted Codes shall be enforced, at the option of the city, by
city official(s) lured or appointed; or by appointed county official(s); or by
contract with an appointed agency or professional group authorized and trained
to perform such enforcement measures; or a combination of any of these
alternatives.
(Ord. 443, passed 7-8-2003)
MUNICIPAL SERVICES IMPACT FEE; NEW DEVELOPMENT
§ 151.015 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   The state, through the enactment of F.S. § 163.3202(3), encourages the
city to enact impact fees to meet the capital facilities needs created by new
development.
   (B)   The imposition of impact fees is one of the preferred methods of
ensuring that new development bears a proportionate share of the cost of
capital facilities necessary to accommodate such development. Allocation of a
proportionate share of costs promotes and protects the public health, safety
and general welfare of the residents of the city.
   (C)   Each of the types of land uses described in the schedule of impact
fees hereof shall create demands for the acquisition of, or expansion of,
municipal services facilities and the construction of municipal services
capital improvements.
   (D)   The report entitled “City of Mexico Beach, Municipal Services Impact
Fee Study”, dated February 22, 2005, sets forth a reasonable methodology and
analysis for the determination of the impact of new development on the need for
and costs of additional municipal recreational, police and fire/rescue services
capital facilities in the city.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.016 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council is authorized to enact this Ordinance pursuant to Article
VIII, § 2(b) of the Florida Constitution and F.S § 166.021.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.017 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply within the incorporated area of the city,
including those areas that are to be or have been annexed into the city.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.018 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use and development of
land so as to assure that new development bears a proportionate share of the
cost of capital expenditures necessary to provide municipal services facilities
and municipal services capital improvements within the city.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A family home structure, with more than 15 sleeping
rooms, which has been modified to serve as a transient public lodging
establishment, which provides the accommodation and meal services generally
offered by a bed and breakfast inn, and which is recognized as a bed and
breakfast inn in the community in which it is situated or by the industry.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary or permanent, built for the
support, shelter or enclosure of persons, chattels or property of any kind.
This term shall include tents, trailers, mobile homes or any vehicles serving
in any way the function of a BUILDING. This term shall not include temporary
construction sheds or trailers erected to assist in construction and
maintenance during the term of a building permit.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the authority
having jurisdiction authorizing the commencement of construction of any
building or parts thereof; the term also includes construction plan approval
for new mobile home development and new recreational vehicle spaces.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan of the City of Mexico Beach
adopted and amended pursuant to the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and
Land Development Regulation Act.
   DWELLING UNIT. A separate housing unit constituting or located within a
residential structure.
   ENCUMBERED. In reference to funds for capital improvements, means funds
committed in the capital improvements program for a specified improvement on a
specified time schedule.
   HOTEL. Any public lodging establishment containing sleeping room
accommodations for 25 or more guests and providing the services generally
provided by a hotel and recognized as a hotel in the community in which it is
situated or by the industry.
   IMPACT FEE STATEMENT. The document issued to an applicant prior to the
issuance of a building permit containing the calculation of the impact fees
imposed on construction under §
151.022.
   LAND. The earth, water and air above, below or on the surface, and includes
any improvements or structures customarily regarded as land.
   MOTEL. Any public lodging establishment which offers rental units with an
exit to the outside of each rental unit, daily or weekly rates, off-street
parking for each unit, a central office on the property with specified hours of
operation, a bathroom or connecting bathroom for each rental unit, and at least
six rental units, and which is recognized as a motel in the community in which
it is situated or by the industry.
   NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. Any building which encloses space for the
occupancy by persons or their activities (other than residential dwellings and
buildings which are accessory to residential dwellings) including, but not
limited to, professional buildings, commercial buildings, hotels, motels,
rentals, industrial buildings, warehouse, public assembly buildings or
institutional buildings except public schools and government buildings. A
building accessory to a residential dwelling is a subordinate building, the use
of which is incidental to that of a principal, residential structure.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. The buildings, structures, equipment and facilities as
may be necessary to meet the need for recreation, police and fire/rescue
facilities, which are created by new development including those costs
incidental to the above.
   PUBLIC LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. A hotel, motel, resort condominium, rooming
house or bed and breakfast inn, each as defined in this subchapter.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. Each single-family dwelling unit and each dwelling
unit of a condominium, duplex, triplex, mobile home, modular housing,
manufactured home, apartment or multiple dwelling structure designated as a
complete, separate housing unit for one or more persons, and utilized or
designed or intended to be utilized for human habitation either temporarily or
permanently.
   RESORT CONDOMINIUM. Any unit or group of units in a condominium, cooperative
or timeshare plan which is rented more than three times in a calendar year for
periods of less than 30 days or one calendar month, whichever is less, or which
is advertised or held out to the public as a place regularly rented for periods
of less than 30 days or one calendar month.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any public lodging establishment that may not be classified
as a hotel, motel, resort condominium, or bed and breakfast inn. A ROOMING
HOUSE includes, but is not limited to, a boardinghouse.
   SCHEDULE OF IMPACT FEES. The schedule of fees incorporated in §
151.022.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE. The gross area measured in feet from the exterior faces of
exterior walls or other exterior boundaries of the building or structure.
   UNIT. A combination of one or more bedrooms and bathrooms held out to the
public as a single habitable unit or recognized as a single habitable unit in
the community in which it is situated.
(F.S. § 509.242) (Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.020 PAYMENT OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Any persons who seeks to develop land within the city, by applying for
a building permit is hereby required to pay a municipal services impact fee in
the manner and amount set forth in the schedule of impact fees. Including any
previous or outstanding building permits that have been issued and have not
received a CA/CO from the city. The municipal services impact fee shall be the
sum of the applicable recreational services impact fee, the police services
impact fee and the fire/rescue services impact fee.
   (B)   No building permit requiring payment of a municipal services impact
fee pursuant to this subchapter shall be issued unless and until municipal
services impact fee herein required has been paid either concurrently with or
subsequent to the filing of a complete application for such.
   (C)   No extension of a building permit issued prior to March 8, 2005, or
the effective date of any applicable amendment to this subchapter, for any
activity requiring payment of an impact fee pursuant to the schedule of impact
fees shall be granted unless and until the municipal services impact fee herein
required has been paid.
   (D)   In the event a building permit is amended after issuance, the
applicant shall pay the municipal services impact fee in effect at the time the
amended building permit is issued with credit be given for the previous fees
paid.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.021 DEDICATION OF LAND.
   The City Council may permit a developer, in lieu of payment of municipal
services impact fees, to convey land by warranty deed, or dedicated land on a
recorded plat, of suitable size, dimension, topography and general character to
serve as a municipal services capital facility, or a substantial portion
thereof, which will meet municipal services needs created by the new
development.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.022 MUNICIPAL SERVICES IMPACT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Schedule of impact fees.
      (1)   The municipal services impact fee shall be the sum of the
recreational services impact fee, the police services impact fee and the fire/
rescue services impact fee calculated using the following schedules:
 
Recreational Services Impact Fee Schedule
Public lodging establishments $816/lodging unit
Residential structure         $900/dwelling unit
 
 
Police Services Impact Fee Schedule
Nonresidential structure $0.30/square foot
Residential structure    $103/dwelling unit
 
 
Fire/Rescue Impact Fee Schedule
Nonresidential structure $0.20/square foot
Residential structure    $202/dwelling unit
 
      (2)   Unspecified uses: if the type of development activity that a
building permit is applied for is not specified on the schedule of impact fees,
the City Administrator or designee shall determine the appropriate fee by
considering demographic or other documentation, whichever is available.
      (3)   Change in use or density: In the case of change of use,
redevelopment or expansion or modification of an existing use on a site, which
requires the issuance of a building permit, the municipal services impact fee
shall be based upon the net increase in the municipal services impact fee for
the new use as compared to the most intense previous use on or after March 8,
2005, or the effective date of any applicable amendments to this subchapter.
   (B)   Alternative for developer fee study. If a fee payer opts not to have
the municipal services impact fee determined according to the schedule of
impact fees, then the fee payer shall prepare and submit to the City
Administrator or designee, an independent fee calculation study for the land
development activity for which a building permit is sought. The independent fee
calculation study shall follow the methodologies and formats used in the “City
of Mexico Beach, Municipal Services Impact Fee Study”, dated February 22, 2005,
prepared by Public Resources Management Group, Inc. The documentation submitted
shall show the basis upon which the independent fee calculation was made. The
City Administrator or designee shall consider the documentation submitted by
the fee payer but is not required to accept such documentation if it is deemed
to be inaccurate or not reliable. The City Administrator or designee may, in
the alternative, require the fee payer to submit additional or different
documentation for consideration. If an acceptable independent fee calculation
study is not presented, the fee payer shall pay the municipal services impact
fees based upon the schedule of impact fees. If an acceptable independent fee
calculation study is presented, the City Administrator or designee may adjust
the municipal services impact fee as appropriate to the particular development.
Determinations made by the City Administrator or designee, pursuant to this
paragraph may be appealed to the City Council by the fee payer providing a
written request with the City Administrator or designee, within ten days of the
City Administrator’s or designee’s determination.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.023 TRUST FUNDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There are hereby established three non-lapsing trust funds, to wit:
the Recreational Services Impact Fee Trust Fund, the Police Services Impact
Trust Fund and the Fire/Rescue Services Impact Trust Fund.
   (B)   Municipal services impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
shall be segregated into either the Recreational Services Impact Fee Trust
Fund, the Police Services Impact Fee Trust Fund or the Fire/Rescue Services
Impact Fee Trust Fund, as applicable, and the three trust funds shall not be
commingled.
   (C)   Funds withdrawn from either the Recreational Services Impact Fee Trust
Fund, the Police Services Impact Fee Trust Fund or the Fire/Rescue Services
Impact Fee Trust Fund shall be used in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.024 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds collected for the recreational services impact fees, or lands
dedicated pursuant to §
151.021 for that purpose, shall be used solely for the purpose of acquiring or
expanding recreational services capital facilities under the jurisdiction of
the city. In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advance provision of recreational services capital facilities for which
municipal services impact fees may be expended, recreational services impact
fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or similar debt instruments
to the extent that the proceeds of the bonds (and a pro rata share of the cost
of issuance) are expended upon recreational services capital facilities.
   (B)   Funds collected for the police services impact fees, or lands
dedicated pursuant to §
151.021 for that purpose, shall be used solely for the purpose of acquiring or
expanding police services capital facilities under the jurisdiction of the
city. In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advance provision of police services capital facilities for which municipal
services impact fees may be expended, police services impact fees may be used
to pay debt service on such bonds or similar debt instruments to the extent
that the proceeds of the bonds (and a pro rata share of the cost of issuance)
are expended upon police services capital facilities.
   (C)   Funds collected for the fire/rescue services impact fees, or lands
dedicated pursuant to §
151.021 for that purpose, shall be used solely for the purpose of acquiring or
expanding fire/rescue services capital facilities under the jurisdiction of the
city. In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are issued for
advance provision of fire/rescue services capital facilities for which
municipal services impact fees may be expended, fire/rescue services impact
fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or similar debt instruments
to the extent that the proceeds of the bonds (and a pro rata share of the cost
of issuance) are expended upon fire/rescue services capital facilities.
   (D)   At least once each fiscal year, the City Administrator shall present
to the City Council a proposed capital improvement program for recreational
services, police services and fire/rescue services facilities, assigning funds,
including any accrued interest, from the applicable Impact Fee Trust Fund to
specific recreational services, police services or fire/rescue services
improvements projects and related expenses. Monies, including any accrued
interest, not assigned in any fiscal year shall be retained in the same Impact
Fee Trust Fund until, the next fiscal year.
   (E)   Funds may be used to provide refunds in the manner set forth in §
151.025.
   (F)   All administrative costs associated with providing municipal services
capital improvements shall be eligible for the appropriation of impact fees
collected by the city; however, administrative costs shall not exceed 5% of the
total amount expended or encumbered by the city.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.025 REFUND OF FEES PAID.
   (A)   Expired building permit. If a building permit expires or is canceled
without construction com-mencing, then the fee payer shall be entitled to a
refund, without interest, of the impact fee paid except that the city shall
retain 5% of the fee to offset a portion of the costs of collection and refund.
The fee payer shall submit an application for such a refund to the City
Administrator or designee within 30 days of the expiration of the order or
permit, or thereafter waive any right to a refund.
   (B)   Funds not expended. Any funds not expended or encumbered by the end of
the calendar quarter immediately following seven years from the date the
municipal impact fees were paid shall, upon application of the then current
landowner, be returned to such landowner, without interest, provided that the
landowner submits an application for a refund to the City Administrator or
designee within 180 days of the expiration of the seven-year period.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.026 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The following shall be exempted from payment of the impact fees:
         (a)   Alterations of an existing Building where no additional
residential density is created and where the use is not changed;
         (b)   The construction of an accessory building or structure not
increasing the demand for services of the parent parcel;
         (c)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building
or structure on the same site with a new building or structure of the same size
and use; and
         (d)   Installation of a replacement mobile home on the same site,
where a mobile home legally existed on such site on or prior to March 8, 2005.
      (2)   Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of the
application for a building permit. Any claim not so made shall be deemed
waived.
   (B)   Credits.
      (1)   A developer may obtain credit against all or a portion of municipal
service impact fees otherwise due or to become due by offering to dedicate
needed land or construct needed capital improvements, or both. The offer of the
developer shall specifically accompany a request for a municipal services
impact fee credit. If the City Administrator, or a designee, accepts such an
offer the credit shall be determined and provided in the following manner:
         (a)   Credit for dedication of land. Credit for the dedication of land
shall be based upon the following as determined by the city;
         (b)   The most recent assessed value of the land by the County
Property Appraiser;
         (c)   By better evidence of value, such as a contract for sale or
recorded deed; or
         (d)   By fair market value established by private appraisers
acceptable to the city.
      (2)   Credit for the dedication of municipal services or land shall be
provided when the property has been conveyed by warranty deed or dedicated on a
recorded plat, at no charge to, and accepted by the city in a manner
satisfactory to the City Council.
      (3)   Credit for construction of capital improvements. Applicants for
credit for construction of municipal services capital improvements shall submit
acceptable engineering drawings and specifications, and construction cost
estimates to the City Administrator, or a designee. The City Administrator, or
a designee, shall determine credit for construction based upon either these
cost estimates or upon alternative engineering criteria and construction cost
estimates if the City Administrator, or a designee, determines that such
estimates submitted by the applicant are either unreliable or inaccurate.
      (4)   Credit due upon completion of construction. Except as provided in
division (B)(5) below, credit against impact fees otherwise due shall not be
provided until the construction is completed and accepted by the city; and a
suitable maintenance and warranty bond is received and approved by the city.
      (5)   Bonding future improvements. Credit may be provided before
completion of specified municipal services capital improvements if adequate
assurances are given by the applicant that the provisions of division (B)(3)
above shall be met and the fee payer posts security, as provided below, for the
costs of such construction. Security for the costs of construction in the form
of a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit or escrow agreement shall
be posted with the city and approved by the City Attorney. If the municipal
service construction project shall not be constructed within one year of the
acceptance of the offer to construct by the City Administrator or designee, the
amount of the security shall be increased for each year of the life of the
security. In the event the municipal services construction is not completed so
as to provide the required facilities at the time of the impact of the
development occurs, the city shall draw on the security and provide for the
required improvements.
      (6)   Claim for credit. Any claim for credit shall be made no later than
the time of application for a building permit. Any claim not so made shall be
deemed waived.
      (7)   Credits not transferable. Credits shall not be transferable from
one project or development to another.
      (8)   Appeal of credit determinations. Determinations made by the City
Administrator, or a designee, pursuant to this section maybe appealed to the
City Council by filing a written request with the City Administrator, or a
designee, within ten days of the City Administrator’s determination.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
§ 151.027 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Personal liability. Any person securing a building permit, and any
person performing activities for which a building permit is required, and all
owners of the land upon which such activities are performed, shall be jointly
and severally liable for the municipal services impact fee imposed by this
subchapter. In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the city may
proceed in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect such fee from any or
all of such persons as provided by law. The term PERSON means any natural
person, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, firm or other
business organization.
   (B)   Lien against property.
      (1)   Failure to dedicate land to pay an impact fee when determined by
the city as required to satisfy the impact of development shall result in the
amount due becoming a lien against the property, as provided herein.
      (2)   The city shall provide a written notice of the impact fee due by:
         (a)   Personal service;
         (b)   Certified United States mail; or
         (c)   Federal express or other equivalent overnight letter delivery
company.
      (3)   Upon failure to pay the impact within 30 days of the date of the
notice, a notice of lien shall be served by:
         (a)   Personal service;
         (b)   Certified United States mail; or
         (c)   Federal express or other equivalent overnight letter delivery
company, advising the property owner that the city shall file a claim of lien
against the property in question.
      (4)   Once recorded, the claim of lien may be foreclosed as provided for
in F.S. Ch. 170, Ch. 173 or any other applicable law. The lien for unpaid
impact fees shall be coequal with a lien for state, county, special district
and municipal taxes and superior in right to all other liens and encumbrances,
including mortgages and judgment liens.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-8-2005)
BUILDING STANDARDS; BUILDING DEPARTMENT
§ 151.040 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   The Building Contractors Examining Board of the city shall consist of
five members as follows:
      (1)   An electrician who is engaged in the profession and who holds a
valid electrician’s certificate in the city;
      (2)   An air-conditioning mechanic who is engaged in the profession and
who holds a valid air conditioner mechanic’s certificate in the city;
      (3)   A plumber who is engaged in the profession and who holds a valid
plumbers certificate in the city;
      (4)   A member from the field of general construction; and
      (5)   A qualified elector in the city, not from the field of general
construction or any profession regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board shall be appointed by the City Council as follows:
      (1)   The first and second members shall be appointed for a term of two
years for the first term;
      (2)   The third and fourth members shall be appointed for a term of two
years for the first term; and
      (3)   The fifth member shall be appointed for a term of one year for the
first term.
   (C)   Terms shall expire and new appointments shall be effective on October
1, 2003 provided that all members shall serve until their successors are duly
qualified and appointed.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.041 CHAIRPERSON; SECRETARY; QUORUM.
   (A)   The members of the Building Contractors Examining Board shall vote to
determine who shall act as Chairperson. The City Administrator, cleric or his
or her designated representative, shall serve as Secretary to the Board.
   (B)   (1)   Any three members shall constitute a quorum with an elected
Chairperson Pro Tem in the absence of the regular Chairperson.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall hold that position for one year unless his or
her term expires.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.042 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Building Contractors Examining Board shall be held at
such times as the Board may by rule, from time to time, establish. Special
meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or three members of the
Board at other times and places.
   (B)   Administrative hearings may be held upon a request of the City
Administrator to hear evidence in regard to written complaints against any
contractor.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.043 RECORDS.
   The Building Contractors Examining Board shall keep in the office of the
Department of Development and Planning a separate book of each trade or
profession in which shall be recorded the names and addresses of each applicant
for a certificate, the date of filing application, the final action of the
board upon each application, the date of such action, whether the granting of a
certificate was made with or without examination, date and action of the Board
in revocation or suspension proceedings, and the signatures of the members of
the Board participating in any action.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.044 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Contractors Examining and Mediation Board shall have the power to
develop tests and conduct testing to determine the qualifications of applicants
for various types of contractors’ and superintendents’ licenses and
certificates of competency for those professions and occupations for which the
City Beach Examination Board and/or the Florida Construction Industry Licensing
Board do not test, certify or quality. Such certificates of competency issued
by the Board shall be applicable only to the performance of construction and
contact-related services within the corporate limits of the city and shall be
issued after the applicant has satisfactorily completed the examination process
required by the Board. The Board, through the examination process, shall
determine the type of certificate or license for which an applicant is
qualified.
   (B)   The Board shall hold hearings to determine if a license or certificate
issued by the Board, by the City Examining Board, or by the State Construction
Industry Licensing Board, should be suspended or revoked for any violation of
this subchapter, the city code of ordinances, or the State Building Code. After
a hearing and upon finding a probable cause that a violation has been
committed, the Board shall be empowered to fix the length of time for such
suspension or revocation of the license of certificate or shall make a
recommendation as indicated in division (H)(3) below. Any decision or
recommendation of the Board may be appealed in writing to the City Council
within 30 days of the Board’s decision.
   (C)   The Board, upon a finding of probable cause that a violation of this
subchapter, the city’s code of ordinances, or the State Building Code has been
committed, shall be empowered to make a recommendation to the State
Construction Industry Licensing Board that license and certificate of
competency of the firm, contractor or superintendent be revoked or suspended.
   (D)   The Board shall be empowered to appoint an employee from the Building
Codes or Zoning Department to conduct an investigation of any complaints made
against the licensed contractor or superintendent and shall determine whether
to file administrative action or direct the investigator to file a complaint
for prosecution of the violation against the firm, contractor or
superintendent.
   (E)   The Board may call upon members of the industry to assist and advise
them.
   (F)   The Board shall have jurisdiction to conduct investigations of all
firms, contractors and super-intendents licensed by it, as well as authority to
review and recommend administrative action, after findings of probable cause
that violations have been committed, of all contractors, superintendents and
trades.
   (G)   The Secretary of the Contractors Examining and Mediation Board may,
upon their own motion, or shall upon sworn complaint in writing of any person,
investigate, or cause to be investigated by a special investigator appointed by
the Board, the charges against any contractor or superintendent qualified by
the Board, the City Examination Board, or by the State Construction Industry
Licensing Board, and shall submit a written report to the Board. Upon the
filling of bankruptcy by or against a qualified contractor under this
subchapter, or if a qualified contractor fails to keep in force with insurance
policy as required, the Secretary of the Board shall immediately suspend the
certificate of competency and report the matter to the Contractors Examining
and Mediation Board for revocation action.
   (H)   The Contractors Examining and Mediation Board, upon receipt of such
reports, shall decide if the report makes a prima facie showing of a violation
of this subchapter and if so, shall take one or both of the following actions:
      (1)   Instruct the Secretary to send, by registered mail, a letter to the
qualified contractor or superintendent to their last known address, as shown by
the Board’s records, setting out the name of the complainant, the time of
commission of the alleged offense, and the section of this subchapter alleged
to be violated, and notifying the qualified contractor or superintendent to
appear before the Board at a time and place fixed, not sooner than 20 days from
the mailing of the registered letter, to show cause why his or her certificate
of competency should not be further suspended or revoked;
      (2)   Instruct the investigator or complainant to file a sworn affidavit
for the arrest of the qualified contractor or superintendent if they have
violated any of the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (3)   The administrative hearing provided for in division (H)(1) above
shall be open to the public.
         (a)   The proceedings at the hearing shall be recorded and may be
transcribed at the expense of the party requesting the transcript.
         (b)   The hearings need not to be conducted according to technical
rules related to evidence and witnesses. They shall however be conducted in
accordance with accepted parliamentary procedures related to motions, votes and
decisions. Fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern all
meetings. Any evidence shall be admitted if the board finds it competent and
reliable, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory rule,
which might make improper the admission of such evidence. Hearsay may not be
used for the purpose of supplementing or examining any direct evidence, but
shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it would be
admissible in civil actions. The rules of privilege shall be effective to the
same extent that they are now or hereafter may be recognized in civil actions,
irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
         (c)   Each party shall have these rights: to call and examine
witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine opposing witnesses on any
matter relevant to the issues even though that matter was not covered in the
direct examination; to impeach any witness regardless of which party first
called him or her to testify; and rebut the evidence against him or her.
         (d)   A written decision shall be made by the Contractors Examining
and Mediation Board by a majority of the Board within five days of the close of
the hearing. The decision shall be one or more of the following:
            1.   Not guilty;
            2.   Fine;
            3.   Suspension of a certificate of competency, stating why;
            4.   Revocation of a certificate of competency, naming an effective
date; and/or
            5.   Recommendation of suspension or revocation of a certificate of
competency or license to the State Construction Industry Licensing Board.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.045 RULES, REGULATIONS.
   The Contractors Examining and Mediation Board may make such rules and
regulations as are consistent with the general policies of this subchapter as
it may deem necessary to carry out the provisions on this subchapter, including
the power to administer oaths and subpoena witnesses in the manner provided for
subpoenaing witnesses in the court, but all such rules shall be approved by
resolution of the City Council before such rules shall have any force or
effect.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.046 CONTRACTOR OR SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The procedures in this section have been developed to qualify those
specialized professionals for whom the City Examining Board and/or the State
Construction Industry Licensing Board may not test, certify or qualify.
   (B)   A contractor or superintendent’s certificate of competency shall be
obtained in the following manner.
      (1)   Any person required or desiring to be qualified as a contractor or
superintendent shall make application on a form prescribed by the Contractors
Examining and Mediation Board at the office of the secretary of such Board in
the Building and Zoning Department. The application shall be retained by the
Board, together with all supporting papers.
      (2)   Should the applicant be a firm, the application shall be executed
by the president or one legally qualified to act for the firm, shall show his
or her authority to so act on the application and shall name on the authorized
agent on behalf of the firm showing his or her authority:
         (a)   To act for the firm in all matters in any manner connecting with
the contracting business;
         (b)   To supervise the construction under the occupational license
issued to the firm;
         (c)   To take the qualifying examination for the firm, unless holding
a current certificate of competency of the class and type necessary; and
         (d)   The firm shall be qualified only though the qualifications of
such agents taking the examination, or through an agent currently qualified,
and if the agent (qualifier) shall serve his or her affiliation with such firm,
the certificate of competency held by such firm shall be automatically
cancelled. Any agent (qualifier) shall be restricted to work of the firm he or
she is currently qualifying.
      (3)   No applicant shall be considered unless the applicant gives all
information required on the form, which shall be included:
         (a)   A statement of the applicant’s proposed contracting business;
         (b)   The type of certificate being applied for;
         (c)   Name, residence and business address for the applicant;
         (d)   If the applicant is a firm, the name and business address of the
firm and the name and residence of all directors and officers of the firm and
their interest therein, and the name and residence of all the applicants
qualified representative, and information contained above; if the applicant is
a corporation, a certificate of incorporation;
         (e)   A sworn financial statement of the applicant, a credit report,
and an agreement authorizing the secretary of the Contractors Examining and
Mediation Board to obtain from any source dealing with the applicant, even
though confidential, such additional information concerning the applicants
financial condition as the secretary deems necessary. Superintendents are
exempted from the application of this division (B)(2);
         (f)   A sworn list of all businesses owned, operated or managed by the
applicant or in which the applicant has had an interest of any kind during the
past five years, and the address of these businesses. Superintendents are
exempted from the application of this division (B)(2);
         (g)   A receipt from the Board, showing that a fee of $50 for the
examination and/or qualification of the applicant have been paid;
         (h)   Three letters of recommendation from a reputable business or
professional person, not related by blood or marriage to the applicant, of this
county, or the county of the applicants last business venture, vouching for the
applicant’s reputation as to honesty, integrity, and good character; and
         (i)   A sworn statement, stating under an oath that the applicant has
not been convicted of a misdemeanor or felony during the past ten years, and
that they are not presently charged with committing a felony or misdemeanor. If
this is not the case, the applicant shall specify the details of the conviction
charges.
      (4)   The Secretary of the Board shall notify the applicant of the next
regular examination and shall notify the Board of the application prior to its
next regular meeting and make such additional investigation as may be directed
by the Board.
      (5)   The Contractors Examining and Mediation Board shall prescribe the
type of examinations of the applicant to show his or her degree of experience;
his or her knowledge of building, safety, health and lien laws of the county,
state and federal governments as may be applicable; his or her knowledge of
rudimentary administrative principles of the contracting business for which the
application is being made.
      (6)   The Contractors Examining and Mediation Board shall not issue or
renew a certificate of competency unless, by majority vote of the Board members
present, the Board finds:
         (a)   That the applicant, or if the applicant is a firm then the
qualified representative, has made a passing grade of 72% on the written or
verbal examination and has the necessary experience for the type of certificate
applied for;
         (b)   That the applicant is financially able to engage in the
contracting business for which the certificate is requested. They shall
establish, in its rules and regulations, uniform but separate standards for
each contractor’s category to guide it in determining an applicant’s financial
qualifications; and
         (c)   The applicant, and each member of the firm, possesses a
reputation for honesty, integrity and a good character, and is not under
present removal of civil rights due to a felony conviction and never has been
convicted of a felony which directly relates to the subject matter for which
the certificate of competency is to be issued. This shall be determined by the
Board by the information contained in the letter of recommendation submitted by
the applicant and any other statement submitted to or obtained by the
Contractors Examining and Mediation Board or its investigators. The lack of
honesty, integrity or good character may be established by competent evidence
that:
            1.   An applicant has committed an act within the past ten years,
which, if committed or done by a license contractor, it would be grounds for
suspension or revocation of a contractor’s license;
            2.   An applicant has committed an act within the past ten years
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or lack of integrity whereby the applicant
has been benefitted or whereby another has sustained some injury;
            3.   An applicant has, in the past ten years, refused to pay valid
bills of persons or firms or if the applicant or any officer of the business
has been adjudicated bankrupt within such time. If the applicant shall be a
firm, then the qualifying agent of the applicant shall be considered to be an
officer of the firm for the purposes of this section; and/or
            4.   An applicant has been convicted of a felony and is presently
removed of his civil rights or the applicant has previously been convicted of a
felony, which directly relates to the subject matter of this subchapter.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.047 PREREQUISITE FOR OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES.
   Whenever a license is required of any contractor, subcontractor,
superintendent, master or journeymen, no such occupational licenses shall be
issued unless the applicant shall first procure from the City Examining Board
and/or the State Construction Industry Licensing Board a current certificate of
competency and shall present a copy to the License Division.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.048 ANNUAL RENEWAL FEES.
   Certificates of competency of qualified contractors, subcontractor’s, and
specialty contractors shall be subject to the annual renewal fees along with
required information described below:
   (A)   Bay County contractors: $50;
   (B)   Non-Bay County resident: $150;
   (C)   Non-Florida resident: $300;
   (D)   Journeymen: $25;
   (E)   Inactive status: half of regular fee;
   (F)   Contractors not regulated by F.S. Ch. 489: $65;
   (G)   State certified contractors are exempt from renewal fees, but shall
pay an administration fee due during the month of September each year. The fee
amount required is $25; and
   (H)   Required information on all contractors: proof of residency,
certificate of liability insurance, workers compensation certificate or
exemption, current state registration, and a check or money order for any
required fee.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.049 UNLAWFUL ACTS OR OMISSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any city contractor, licensed individually or as a
firm contractor, officer, director or qualified representative of a firm
contractor or superintendent to commit any one or more of the following acts or
omissions:
   (A)   To contract or does any work outside of the scope of operations as set
out in the state legal definition of the particular type of contractor or
superintendent for whom they are qualified;
   (B)   Abandon without legal excuse a construction project or operation in
which they are engaged or under contract as a contractor or superintendent;
   (C)   Divert funds or property received for the execution or completion of a
specific construction project or operation or for a specified purpose to any
other use whatsoever;
   (D)   To depart from or disregard in any material respect the plans or
specifications of a construction job without the consent of the owner or his or
her duly authorized representative;
   (E)   Disregard or violate, in the performance of their contracting
business, any of the building, safety, health insurance or workers’
compensation, laws or state laws and ordinances;
   (F)   Misrepresent any material fact in their application and supporting
papers in obtaining a license under this subchapter;
   (G)   Fail to fulfill his or her contractual obligation through inability to
pay all creditors for materials furnished or work or services performed in the
operation of his or her business for which they are licensed hereunder;
   (H)   Fail to display their business name and license number as required by
F.S. Ch. 489 or fail to display them upon their vehicles in a conspicuous
location. This also pertains to any and all city registered contractors within
any category;
   (I)   Intentionally evade or violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter, which may be evidenced by, but not limited to, one or more of the
following acts:
      (1)   Aiding or abetting any person not holding a certificate of
competency to evade or violate any of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Allowing a certificate to be used by an unauthorized person;
      (3)   Obtain a permit for any work in which the certificate holder does
not actually supervise, direct and control the construction or installation
covered by such permits;
      (4)   Subcontract any work to any person, corporation, or firm not
holding a certificate of competency for work involved in the subcontract; and/
or
      (5)   Fail to obtain a permit prior to commencement of any job.
   (J)   Do any fraudulent act as a certificate holder by which another is
substantially injured;
   (K)   Provide false information or facts to the Board or Building Department
Division for anything; and/or
   (L)   Fail to cooperate in any investigation by not giving a sworn statement
of facts.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.050 UNLAWFUL TO ENGAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to engage in any business or
act in any capacity of any covered occupations listed within the city code or
F.S. Ch. 489 within the city without having been duly registered or certified
under the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY; REQUIRED TO DO BUSINESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or act
in the capacity of a contractor, subcontractor, master, qualifying agent,
journeyman, maintenance personnel, installer or tradesman in any of the
classifications set forth in the code within the incorporated area of the city
without having made application for, as set forth in this section, and there
having been issued, as set forth in this division (A), a current valid
certificate of competency or eligibility. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to mean that there cannot be workers in some trades who are not
qualified or certified within the definitions herein set forth if such workers
are employed by and under the supervision of a contractor qualified in the
trade concerned and working with a master or journeyman on the job site, if the
trade concerned requires masters and journeyman. Workers are not qualified and
certified within the definitions herein set forth can work as day laborer for a
builder in any trade not requiring a masters, journeyman or installers license.
   (B)   The scopes of work for each person holding certificates of competency
shall be limited to work describe in the classification for which a certificate
of competency is held, and the standards established, including examination,
for the obtaining of any particular certificate of competency shall cover the
entire scope of the work involved in the particular classification concerned.
The possessing of a current valid certificate of competency and a current
occupational license pursuant thereto as a contractor or subcontractor in any
classification shall include the right to contact and obtain permits for all
work included in the scope of the work described in the classification and such
contractor or subcontractors shall be issued permits for such work by the
administrative agency concerned. Nothing in this section shall be misconstrued
to prohibit the work included under one classification from also being included
under another classification, if so set forth in this subchapter in the scope
of the work of classification concerned and whether on private or public
property, shall have no bearing unless specified otherwise.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to contractors bidding
on or performing public works for municipal, county, state or federal
government, or other public body.
   (D)   Any person not possessing a current certificate of competency and
holding himself or herself out to be a contractor or superintendent shall be
subject to the provisions and penalties of the city code of ordinances, and
such representations shall be prima facie evidence in court or any other
proceeding authorized by this subchapter that the person purported to have the
capacity to act as a contractor or superintendent.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 RECIPROCITY.
   (A)   Generally. The county requesting reciprocity shall submit a letter of
affidavit reflecting the facts that the individual was certified by
examination, to include the trade, experience requirement, date of
certification, passing score (72%), status of certification, any disciplinary
actions and that their county will in turn accept reciprocity from the city.
   (B)   Board requirement. The City Board shall review applicants of
reciprocity and shall give a finding or recommendation to the Building Official
prior to the acceptance of any applicant for reciprocity.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.053 CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE FEES.
   Any contractor holding a license issued in another city or county that meets
or exceeds the licensing requirements of the city shall pay a fee for
registration and a fee for a card. A fee shall be charged to renew the card in
each successive year. If the card is not renewed and kept current, upon
application for issuance of a card, the contractor shall be required to pay the
registration fee as a penalty in addition to the renewal fee. State certified
contractors shall only be required to obtain an occupational license. All the
fees in this section may be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.054 BOND REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTORS.
   To be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.055 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to protect property owners in the city, contractors doing
business in the city shall be required to carry bodily injury and property
damage insurance in the amounts shown below or that which is required of
contractors by the state, whichever is greater: $50,000; bodily injury and
$25,000; property damage. These amounts apply to all contractors except for
those regulated under F.S. Ch. 489.
   (B)   Such liability insurance shall be issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state, shall name the city as an additional
insured by endorsement and shall provide a ten-day notice of cancellation or
reduction in coverage to the Building Department of the city. Evidence of
insurance complying with this section shall be provided by a copy of the policy
or by a certificate of insurance stating the company name; an agent or agency
name; policy number; an inception and expiration date; limits of liability;
that coverage is provided for the hold harmless agreement executed by the
contractor; that the city is named as an additional insured by endorsement; and
that the ten-day notice of cancellation or reduction in coverage will be
provided.
   (C)   A contractor listed in division (A) above who presently carries
liability insurance in the amounts stated for work preformed in the county or
the state is not required to carry additional amounts of insurance required by
the section.
   (D)   Persons engaged in occupations relating to any type construction,
repair, modification, demolition or other services in connection with any type
maintenance and upkeep of buildings, equipment and facilities within the city
are required to provide up to date proof of insurance or a surety bond in the
amounts shown in division (A) above prior to issuance of necessary permits to
proceed with work.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.056 FALSIFICATION AS GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATES.
   Any falsification on an application or examination under this subchapter
shall be reason to deny the applicant a certificate of competency in the city.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.057 RECORDS.
   The Director of Building and Zoning shall keep a record of the name and
address of each applicant for a certificate of competency and the date of
filing the application, and shall maintain a master list of qualified
certificate holders furnished by the Building Official.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.058 REGISTRATION OF OUT-OF-TOWN SERVICE CONTRACTORS, SPECIALTY
CONTRACTORS AND CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY CONTRACTORS; JOB PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All service contractors, specialty contractors and construction
industry contractors whose business location is other than in the city, and who
are not currently licensed to operate in the city, shall register with the city
prior to commencement of any work in the city. Upon presentation of a valid
occupational license from the county or another municipality within the county,
together with a copy of his or her liability insurance policy and evidence of
state registration or certification, the city shall issue such contractors a
registration certificate in such form as is prescribed, to be valid from the
date of purchase through September 30 of the current fiscal year. The city fee
requirements shall be met prior to issuance.
   (B)   All service contractors, specialty contractors, and construction
industry contractors shall obtain a city license or registration certificate as
set forth in the division prior to commencement of any work in the city. Prior
to the issuance of a city license or registration certificate, each contractor
and/or homeowner contractor shall execute a hold harmless agreement holding the
city and its officers, agents, employees or assigns, both individually and
collectively, harmless from any liability caused by the contractor or his or
her agents, employees or assigns. This hold harmless agreement will be on a
form provided by the city.
   (C)   Certification and registration by the State Construction Industry
Licensing Board shall be required for general contractors, building
contractors, residential building contractors, electrical contractors, plumbing
contractors, mechanical contractors, swimming pool contractors, sheet metal
contractors, and roofing contractor and any others as may be required.
   (D)   The Building Official shall review all plans, specifications and work
proposals for compliance with existing laws and ordinances.
   (E)   Upon proper credentials, a contractor may obtain a job permit.
   (F)   An annual registration fee for all persons required to be registered
with the city.
   (G)   All registration permits shall be sold by the City Administrator or
his or her authorized representative, beginning September 1 of each year, shall
be due and payable on October 1 of each year and shall expire on September 30
of the succeeding year. Those registrations not renewed by October 1, shall be
considered delinquent and are subject to a delinquency penalty of 10% for the
month of October, plus an additional penalty of 5% for each month of
delinquency there after until paid; however, the total delinquency penalty
shall not exceed 25% of the registration fee. Any person engaging in the
construction industry, as defined in this section, who requires registration
with the city, shall be subject to a penalty of 25% of the registration fee
determined to be due, in addition to any other penalty provided by law or
ordinance.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.059 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A person shall be deemed qualified in the business of electrical
contracting if he or she has passed a block proctored examination with a
passing grade of 72% as master electrician, possesses a county license and
shall be registered with the State Department of Business and Professional
Regulation; or be certified by the state.
   (B)   Such persons deemed qualified shall purchase a city occupational
license for such trade. If such persons meet these qualifications and are
licensed in another municipality in the county, a fee will be charged for city
registration for issuance of a card of competency and which shall be renewed
annually for a fee as long as card is kept up to date. Such fees are
established by resolution of the City Council; state certified electrical
contractors are only required to obtain an occupational license.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.060 CONTRACTOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   A person shall be deemed qualified to engage in the business of any of the
listed trades when they have passed a block proctored examination with a
passing grade of 72% and/or possess a certificate of competency from any other
city in the county and shall be registered by the state or be certified with
the state. Such persons deemed qualified shall purchase a city occupational
license for such trade or be certified by the Board by way of qualifications
set forth in this section. If such persons meet the qualifications and are
licensed in another local municipality, fees as set by resolution of the City
Council and will be charged for registration and for issuance of a card of
competency; then an annual charge as long as the card is kept up to date.
Exception: The trades not listed in F.S. Ch. 489 are not required to take a
block exam unless the Board requires it under a resolution of such. An approved
competency card is still required.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.061 CERTIFICATES OF COMPETENCY AND OTHER TRADES.
   (A)   Reference F.S. Ch. 489 and others. The following trades shall meet
requirements set forth by the City Building Department:
      (1)   Alarm Contractor;
      (2)   Alarm Contractor II;
      (3)   Building Contractor;
      (4)   Cabinet Contractor;
      (5)   Drywall Contractor;
      (6)   Electrical Contractor;
      (7)   Electrical Sign Contractor;
      (8)   Excavation Contractor;
      (9)   Flooring Contractor;
      (10)   Framing/Carpentry Contractor;
      (11)   General Contractor;
      (12)   HVAC (Class A) Contractor;
      (13)   HVAC (Class B) Contractor;
      (14)   HVAC (Class C) Contractor;
      (15)   Insulation/Fireplace Contractor;
      (16)   Landscape Contractor;
      (17)   Limited Contractor;
      (18)   Limited Energy Systems Contractor;
      (19)   Marine Contractor;
      (20)   Masonry/Stucco/Concrete Contractor;
      (21)   Mechanical Contractor;
      (22)   Plumbing Contractor;
      (23)   Residential Contractor;
      (24)   Roofing Contractor;
      (25)   Sheet Metal Contractor;
      (26)   Sign Contractor- (non-electrical);
      (27)   Solar Water Heating Contractor;
      (28)   Specialty Contractor (any specified by the city);
      (29)   Storm Shutter Contractor;
      (30)   Surveyor Contractor;
      (31)   Swimming Pool/Spa Contractor;
      (32)   Swimming Pool/Spa Service Contractor;
      (33)   Tree Contractor;
      (34)   Trim Contractor;
      (35)   Underground Utilities Contractor;
      (36)   Water Filtration/Softener and Conditioning Service Contractor; and
      (37)   Window and Door Contractor.
   (B)   Upon ascertaining that the applicant for registration has satisfied
all the requirements set forth for the following license:
      (1)   Master Electrician;
      (2)   Master Plumber including Gas;
      (3)   Journeyman Electrician; and/or
      (4)   Journeyman Plumber.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.062 CERTIFICATE.
   The Building Official shall refuse to issue a license to any person engaged
in the business of electrical, plumbing and mechanical or gas construction and
installation, unless such persons hold a valid, un-revoked or un-suspended
certificate of competency, or has in his or her regular employ a person who
holds such certificates. The Building Official shall also refuse to issue to
any partnership a license to engage in such business, unless such partnership
has in its regular employ, or as a member, a person who holds such
certificates. The Building Official shall also refuse a license to any
corporation, which does not have in its regular employ a person who holds a
certificate. Each license shall stand suspended during any period in which the
conditions requisite to issuance of a license do not obtain.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.063 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No electrical wiring or extension of circuits shall be installed
within or on any building or structure nor shall any alteration, repair or
addition be made in any such existing wiring, devices, or equipment without
first securing a permit from the Building Official, except as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for minor repairs, such as repairing flush
and snap switches, replacing fuses or circuit breakers, and changing lamp
sockets and receptacles.
   (C)   No permit shall be required for the installation and wiring, devices
or equipment for telephone, cable television or any work installed by a public
utility subject to regulation as such by the State Public Service Commission or
an agency of the United States.
   (D)   A permit for electrical construction shall be obtained from the
Building Official by the person installing the work, this shall occur prior to
the commencement of work.
   (E)   The permit when issued shall be for such installation as is described
in the permit, and no deviation shall be made from the installation so
described without the written approval of the Building Official.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.064 PERMITS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The construction, alteration, renovation or repair of a building,
structure, pool, dock, fence, tree removal, parking area and the like, shall
not be permitted or commenced within the city before a building permit has been
obtained from the proper authorities.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required to be obtained pursuant to division (A)
above for the following types of building activities:
      (1)   Interior and exterior painting, including roof painting and
wallpapering and done by a registered contractor;
      (2)   Sheetrock repair, not replacement;
      (3)   Exterior landscaping modifications, which are not affected by
another city code and done by a registered contractor;
      (4)   Replacement of floor coverings if done by a registered contractor;
      (5)   Replacement of appliances, including window air conditioners,
unless an electrical connection is required other that by a common wall plug;
and
      (6)   Permits shall be required for all other activities, which are
otherwise required by the appropriate codes.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.065 FEES.
   All fees for general and electrical permits shall be adopted by or amended
by a resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.066 COMPUTATION FOR WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit fees shall be in accordance with the schedules enumerated in
this subchapter, except where work without a permit is in progress or complete;
in such cases, the following schedule shall apply to all work without permits
or development orders:
      (1)   Where it can be determined that the current owner is responsible,
four times the amount(s) shown in the regular schedules in this subchapter; and
      (2)   Where it cannot be established that the current owner is
responsible, double the amount(s) shown on the schedules in this subchapter
(permits).
   (B)   All fees in division (A) above shall apply unless the owner or his or
her authorized agent can produce satisfactory evidence to the Director of the
Building Department that the work was performed prior to his or her ownership;
in such case, the double fee amount will apply.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.067 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits shall not be valid if the work is not started within 180 days
after the date of issue and shall expire one year from the date issued.
   (B)   Expired permits and development orders may be renewed at the
discretion of the Building Official after a review of the previously filed
documents. A plan review fee shall be assessed for the review.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.068 RE-INSPECTION FEE.
   A re-inspection fee established by or amended by a resolution of the City
Council shall be charged or assessed to any contractor, or homeowner acting as
contractor, when an inspection fails to comply with the City Building Code, and
a re-inspection is required. The contractor or homeowner shall pay the fee
before re-inspection.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.069 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   (A)   All air conditioning ducts, fan vents, plumbing and other piping work
must be in place, inspected and accepted on work to be concealed before the
electrical wiring is inspected, and no such wiring will be considered as
completed until all such ducts, vents, plumbing or piping is in place.
   (B)   Upon making an inspection of any electrical wiring or equipment, when
to wiring or equipment is found to have been installed in a satisfactory manner
and in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Inspector shall
place a notice at the service switch or other suitable place stating that the
electrical work has been inspected. If the wiring or equipment is found not to
be in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Inspector shall
post a certificate stating “Wiring Condemned”.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to conceal any electrical wiring or equipment
until such wiring or equipment has been inspected and the notice posted
required in division (B) above.
   (D)   If any electrical work or part therefore is covered before being
inspected, tested and approved as provided in this subchapter, it shall be
uncovered upon the order of the Inspector, and the cost of such shall be the
responsibility of the contractor or the owner.
   (E)   When the electrical work for which a permit has been obtained is ready
for inspection, notice in writing on the forms furnished at the office of the
Inspector stating the location of the work, the name of the owner, the name of
the electrician to whom the permit was issued and the name of the electrician
doing the work shall be given to the Inspector or his or her duly authorized
representatives at his or her office.
   (F)   As soon as possible, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, the Inspector
or his duly authorized representatives will inspect and test the work in a
manner necessary to satisfy the Inspector that the work has been installed in a
proper and worklike manner and in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, and with the plans and specifications previously submitted and
approved.
   (G)   In large and/or complicated installations, the work may be inspected
and tested in sections at the option of the Inspector or his or her duly
authorized representatives.
   (H)   If, after the first visit to an installation pursuant to written
notice, it is necessary to return to re-inspect any work because of a defect or
because the work was not ready for the initial inspection, the Inspector will
be required to return only on another written notice.
   (I)   After the completion of the work, a notice, the same as provided in
this section, shall be given to the Inspector or his or her duly authorized
representatives for a request of a final inspection. If the Inspector finds
that the work has been satisfactorily done, he or she shall issue a final
certificate of inspection upon the request of the electrician to whom the
permit was issued. The certificate does not relieve the electrician of his or
her responsibility for any defective work, which may have escaped the notice of
the Inspector.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.070 CONCEALMENT OF INSTALLATIONS.
   When any part of a wiring installation is to be hidden from view by the
permanent placement of parts of the building, the person doing the installing
shall notify the Inspector and such parts of the wiring installation shall not
be concealed until they have been inspected by the Inspector, provided that on
large installations where the concealment of parts of the proceeds
continuously, the person installing system shall give the Inspector due notice,
and inspection shall be made periodically during the progress of the work.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.071 COMPLETION OF INSTALLATIONS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the installation of the electrical wiring,
devices and equipment, which have been authorized by issuance of a permit, it
shall be the duty of the person making the installation to notify the Inspector
who shall inspect the installation within a reasonable time. If the
installation is found to be fully in compliance with the law and does not
constitute violation, the Inspector shall issue a certificate of approval to
such person for delivery to the owner authorized connection to the electrical
services, the turning on the current and the use of installation. The Inspector
shall send a written notice of the connection authorization to the public
utility corporation furnishing the electric service.
   (B)   When a certificate is issued authorizing the connecting and use of
temporary work, such certificates shall be issued to expire at a stated time
and shall be revocable by the Inspector at his or her discretion. A preliminary
certificate may be issued authorizing the connection and use of certain
specified portions of an uncompleted installation, and such preliminary
certificates are revocable at the discretion of the Inspector.
   (C)   If, upon inspection, the installation is found not to be fully in
compliance with law, the Inspector shall forward or post for the person
installing the installation a written notice stating the defect, which has been
found to exist.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.072 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF INSPECTOR.
   When the Inspector shall condemn all or part of any installation. The owner
may file an appeal in writing for review of such action with the Building
Contractors Examining Board and the Board shall determine at the next scheduled
meeting whether such installation complies with the law, and render its
decision accordingly.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.073 CONNECTIONS TO INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to make connections from a source
of electrical energy to any electrical wiring, devices or equipment for the
installation of which a permit is required, until a certificate of approval has
been issued by the Inspector authorizing such connecting and the use of such
wiring, devices or equipment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to make connections from a source
of electrical energy to any electrical wiring, devices or equipment which has
been disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the Inspector or the use of
which has been ordered disconnected by the Inspector until a certificate of
approval has been issued by the Inspector authorizing the reconnecting and use
of such wiring, devices or equipment.
   (C)   Tampering with meters or with conductors carrying un-metered current
and the unauthorized breaking of utility company seals shall be unlawful. New
service or existing service that has been altered or repaired shall not be
connected until the utility company furnishing electricity has received an
authorized inspection certificate.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, alter, change, mar and/
or deface any manufacture’s name, trademark, symbol and/or markings on any
device or equipment in any installation.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.074 CERTIFICATES OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   No certificate of approval shall be issued unless the electric light,
power and heating installations are in strict conformity with the provisions of
law.
   (B)   No certificate of approval shall be issued for any installation, which
is not in strict conformity with the provisions of law.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.075 CONSTRUCTION, MATERIALS AND APPLIANCES TO CONFORM TO SUBCHAPTER
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All electrical construction and all materials and appliances used in
connection with the installation, maintenance and operation of electrical
wiring apparatus or equipment for light, heat and power within the city shall
conform to such special rules and regulations as may be embodied in this
subchapter or as may be adopted as provided in this subchapter, and shall
conform with approved methods of construction for safety to life or property.
   (B)   All construction material used in connection with the installation of
any construction related trade shall conform to such special rules and
regulations as may be embodied in this subchapter, or as may be adopted as
provided in this division and shall conform with ASTM approved methods of
construction for safety to life or property.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.076 SERVICE EQUIPMENT DISCONNECTING MEANS.
   (A)   Each set of service entrance conductors shall be provided with a
readily accessible means of disconnecting the current-carrying conductors
supplied by the service from the source of supply.
   (B)   Main service disconnects or distribution panels shall not be located
in the following locations:
      (1)   Closets;
      (2)   Cabinets;
      (3)   Bathrooms;
      (4)   Bedrooms;
      (5)   Stairways; and
      (6)   Stairwells.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.077 GAS PIPING AND TUBING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Gas piping and tubing shall be installed in such a manner that it will
not come in contact with electrical conductors, electrical cables and
electrical conduits. Exception (1): electrical devices in gas lines and at
utilization equipment. Exception (2): where metallic conduits and gas lines are
bonded together.
   (B)   Gas piping tubing installed in accessible attic spaces and under a
floor spaces shall be installed in such a manner that it will be fully visible
though out its full length after the building is completed. Gas lines shall not
be covered by building installation and the like. Exception: vertical sections
run down or up to appliances or source.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.078 PERMIT, PLAN CHECKING FEES.
   Fees for building permits and for checking building plans shall be as
follows: permit and plan review fees as defined shall be established by a
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.079 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DECLARED ILLEGAL AND PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, residential buildings and structures, commercial buildings
and structures, and any other buildings and structures which are unsafe,
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or no provided with adequate egress; or
which constitute a fire hazard, or otherwise dangerous to human life; or which
in relation to existing use constitute hazards to safety or health by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescent, abandonment, damage from
fire, storm, vandalism, criminal act or other force major events, are severely
in contemplation of this section deemed to be unsafe buildings are hereby
declared illegal and a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, or such other acts as are necessary to abate the
public nuisance.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.080 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Subject to constitutional limitations, the enforcing agency is hereby
authorized and directed to make inspections to determine the condition of
dwelling, dwelling units, hotels, rooming houses, the premises occupied by or
adjacent to such structures, including vacant lots, and the premises of
business establishments located in proximity thereof.
      (1)   The inspecting officers of the enforcing agency are hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey, at reasonable hours, all structures
and premises for which minimum standards are established by this subchapter.
      (2)   The owner, operator, lessee, occupant or the person in charge of
every dwelling, dwelling unit, hotel and rooming house and business
establishment shall give the inspecting officer free access for the purpose of
making such inspection, examination and survey; and, shall supply, as correctly
and promptly as possible, all information requested by the inspecting officer.
   (B)   Inspecting officers of the enforcing agency shall be provided with
official identification and shall exhibit such identification when making an
inspection.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.081 UNITS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND THE PROCEDURE FOR CONDEMNATION
DESIGNATION; PLACARD AND STOP WORK ORDER REMOVAL OR OBSTRUCTION.
   The designation of dwellings, dwelling units, hotels, hotel units, rooming
houses and rooming units as unfit for human habitation and the procedure for
the placarding and condemnation of such unfit structures and units shall be
carried out in compliance with the following requirements.
   (A)   The head of the enforcing division shall declare as unfit for human
occupancy any dwelling, dwelling units, hotels, hotel units, rooming houses and
rooming unit which is found to have any of the following defects:
      (1)   One, which is so dilapidated, damaged, decayed, unsanitary, unsafe
or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or the public;
      (2)   One, which lack’s illumination, ventilation or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public; or
      (3)   One, which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary, or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
the public.
   (B)   The head of the enforcing division shall give to the owner or person
in charge of any dwelling, dwelling units, hotels, hotel units, rooming houses
and a rooming unit found to be unfit for human occupancy written notice or
posting to the effect that such dwelling, dwelling units, hotels, hotel units,
rooming houses and rooming unit found to be unfit for human occupancy and such
notice shall:
      (1)   Summarize the defects which serve as the basis for declaring the
dwelling, dwelling units, hotels, hotel units, rooming houses and a rooming
unit found to be unfit for human occupancy;
      (2)   Order the building, structure or portion thereof, to be vacated
within five days and not re-occupied until a certificate of occupancy is issued
by the Building Department of the city;
      (3)   Require the owner or person in charge of the building or premises,
within 15 days from the date of the notice, to commence either the necessary
repairs or improvements or the demolition or removal of the building structures
or parts thereof;
      (4)   Stipulate that a permit as required by the Building Code be
obtained prior to the start of any repairs, improvements, demolition or removal
of the building or structure and that all work covered by the permit that shall
be completed within 90 days from the date thereof, unless otherwise stipulated
by the head of the enforcing division; and/or
      (5)   Inform the person on whom the notice is served of his or her right
to apply for, within 15 days, a hearing by the Special Master.
   (C)   Proper notice of such shall be by personal service upon the owner of
record, if he or she shall be found. If the person addressed with such notice
shall be sent by certified mail to the last known address of such person, and a
copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises, and
such procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of personal service.
   (D)   In addition to giving the notice, the head of the enforcing agency
shall placard, or cause to be placarded, dwelling, dwelling units, hotels,
hotel units, rooming houses and rooming unit found to be unfit for human
occupancy.
      (1)   The placard shall be signed by the head of the enforcing division
and posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. It shall be red in color and
contain the following script:
            “These premises not fit for human occupancy and, in the opinion of
the undersigned, unsafe. Notice has been given and these premises shall not be
used or occupied.
            This placard shall not be removed except by an authorized
representative of the Enforcing agency.”
      (2)   No person, except a representative of the enforcing division, shall
deface or remove the placard from any premises, which have been declared and
placarded as unfit for human habitation.
      (3)   The head of the enforcing agency shall order the placard removed
whenever the defect or defects upon which the placarding action was based have
been eliminated.
   (E)   Whenever any premises are designed as an unfit for human habitation,
as provided in this subchapter, enforcing division shall determine the
relationship of the cost necessary to correct the violation to the value of the
building.
      (1)   If the cost of the corrective measures to be taken exceeds 50% of
the value, based on current replacement cost less reasonable depreciation, such
building shall be demolished and removed.
      (2)   If the cost of the corrective measures does not exceed 50% of the
value, based on current replacement cost, less reasonable depreciation, such
building may be repaired, renovated or otherwise made to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The removal, defacement, blocking or obstruction by visual methods or
otherwise of any placard or stop work order that has been posted anywhere for
anything shall be a violation of city ordinance and punishable as defined in
the city code.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.082 ENFORCEMENT ORDERS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Every enforcement order of the Board or the Special Master shall be
final, subject to the right of any aggrieved party, including the city or the
violator, to appeal a final administrative order of the Board or the Special
Master to the Circuit Court of the Fourteenth Judicial Circuit of Bay County in
and for city. Such an appeal shall not be a hearing de novo, but shall be
limited to appellate review of the record created before the Board or the
Special Master. An appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the execution of the
order to be appealed.
   (B)   Every enforcement order of the Board or the Special Master shall have
the force of the law, shall be in writing, shall include findings of fact and
conclusions of law, and if an order of the Board, shall indicate the vote upon
the order.
   (C)   Every enforcement order shall be signed by the Chairperson, or in his
or her absence, the Vice Chairperson, and shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk. A copy of the signed order shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested or, where certified mailing would not be effective, by
regular mail, hand delivery by a city police officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer to the violator. The filing of any order shall be made at the County
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.083 RE-INSPECTION; UNSAFE INSTALLATIONS.
   The Inspector shall periodically make a thorough re-inspection of the
installation of all electrical wiring, electrical devices and electrical
equipment now installed or that may hereafter be installed within the city.
When the installation of any wiring devices or equipment is found to be
dangerous or unsafe condition, the person owning, using, or operating such
devices or equipment shall be notified in writing or posting and shall make the
necessary repairs or changes to place such wiring, devices or equipment in safe
condition and have such work completed within the period specified by the
Inspector in such notice. The Inspector is hereby empowered to disconnect or
order the discontinuance of electrical service to any wiring, meter, devices or
equipment found to be defect until the installation of such wiring, meter,
devices or equipment has been made safe as directed by him or her. The city and
Inspector shall be held harmless for any loss of damages that might occur from
disconnecting of electrical service at any location.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.084 WIND SPEED; WIND-BORNE DEBRIS REGION.
   (A)   Required ultimate design wind speed. The ultimate design wind speed,
Vult, for the determination of the wind loads for Risk Category II Buildings,
as defined by the Florida Building Code, shall be 140 miles per hour for all of
the City of Mexico Beach.
   (B)   Wind-Borne Debris Region.
      (1)   Establishment. There is hereby established a “Wind-Borne Debris
Region” as all land within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Purpose. In order to assure proper methods for new construction
and/or repair of existing buildings and structures, the Wind-Borne Debris
Region has been established to provide an easily recognized region, wherein
buildings constructed within said region must be either designed for internal
pressures that may result inside a building when a window or door is broken or
a hole is created in the walls or roof by large debris, or be designed with
protected openings, pursuant to Chapter 16 Florida Building Code, 2001, F.S.
Ch. 553.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003; Ord. 713, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 151.085 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   A portable sanitary facility shall be supplied to a new construction
site within the city after the initial grading has been completed and before
the foundation work is begun.
   (B)   Such portable sanitary facility shall be maintained at the site in an
inconspicuous location until after the hookup of the interior sanitary
facilities the portable unit shall be kept maintained on a regular basis to
avoid a public nuisance to neighboring residence or others.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.086 DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Builders or persons within the city shall be held responsible for damages
caused by them to public and private property in pursuit of the construction
project, and shall immediately notify the city to take the necessary steps to
repair or replace any damaged property.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.087 RECOGNITION OF COUNTY PERMITS IN ANNEXED AREA.
   (A)   Whenever, on or prior to the date of annexation, a building or other
construction permit has been or shall have been validly issued by the county
for construction or other work to be done in the area which, subsequent to the
issuance of such permits (or on the date of the issuance of such permits), was
or shall have been annexed by the city, the city shall recognize as valid such
permits, and all work that might have been started and completed pursuant to
such permits shall be permitted to proceed to conclusion, notwithstanding the
certain requirements of the city may be different from those of the county
under which such permit was or shall have been issued.
   (B)   The extent to which such city permit shall be recognized by the city
shall be the same extent only as would have been the case under city
regulations.
   (C)   The fact that a developer or owner may have commenced a project but
has or shall have secured permits for only some of the contemplated houses in
such projects shall not permit any houses to be commenced beyond the exact
number for which the county permit has been issued on or prior to the day of
annexation.
   (D)   In the event a permit has been or shall have been validity issued by
the county for any type of construction or work on prior to the date of
annexation by the city and in connection with such work additional permits are
required either under the county procedures or under the city requirements, all
such additional permits, the need for same, their issuance and administration
shall proceed under the county regulations; and the fact that the main or basic
permit has been or shall have been issued by the county shall entitle all
applicants for permits in the connection with the completion of the
construction or other work on the same premises to proceed as fully as they
otherwise would have done in the event annexation has not or shall not have,
taken place, except that all inspections assure compliance with the
requirements under the permits so issued by the county, as well as the city,
shall be performed by and to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector;
provided however, that nothing in this section shall be interpreted to provided
any recognition for any renewal or extension of a county permit after the date
of annexation as the recognition provided in this section shall apply to an
original permit only.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.088 GROUND DRAINAGE FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All residential properties in the city shall be graded or filled so
that the property drains towards a permanent storm drainage, street or
permanent body of water prior to construction of improvements thereon, in order
to eliminate flooding due to sudden and heavy rainfall.
   (B)   Drainage facilities shall be designed so as to retain the first inch
of runoff onsite and post development runoff shall not exceed the pre-
development run off rate for a 25-year storm event, up to and including an
event with a 24-hour duration. Channeling stormwater runoff directly into water
bodies, coastal wetlands, living marine resource habitats and located near an
estuary or estuaries systems or other water bodies within the city limits shall
be designed so that the shorelines are sinuous rather than straight and so that
water/land interferes are curvilinear and maximize space for growth of littoral
vegetation.
   (C)   The developer or owner shall use swale drainage to the maximum extent
possible, except where it is physically unfeasible as determined by the Public
Works Director. If feasible, perforated pipe shall be used for infiltration
purposes in situations where piping is necessary.
   (D)   If divisions (A) (B), and (C) above are strictly adhered to and
approved by the city officials, then the property will be exempt from the
regulation that requires gutters and downspouts.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.089 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of the publications
adopted by reference in this subchapter, and a provision of any technical code
or standard applicable to the city or adopted by the city, or between such
publications, the stricter or higher standard shall control.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.090 DISCLAIMER.
   The city hereby disclaims any responsibility for insuring that construction,
remodeling and additions on real property meet the minimum requirements of the
City Building Code in that construction permits and inspections are a matter of
service to the public and not intended as a guarantee that construction under
permits issued by the city meets the minimum requirements of the city’s
Building Code.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.091 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION.
   The City Administrator, Director of Land Use, Code Enforcement Officer,
Public Works Director, and approved wrecker staff acting under the direction of
a Director or a Code Enforcement Officer are immune from prosecution, civil or
criminal, for reasonable, good faith trespass upon real property while in the
discharge of duties imposed in the code.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.092 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION.
   These codes shall be enforced at the option of the city, by city officials
hired or appointed; or by appointed county officials; or by contract with an
appointed agency or professional group authorized and trained to perform such
enforcement measures; or a combination of any of these alternatives. Any person
or persons violating this subchapter are subject to the maximum penalties as
prescribed by law.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.093 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective immediately upon passage pertaining
to all contractors, except for the provisions and contract services provided
for by county builders services and the parts thereof regulating state
certified and county registered contractors only. These parts shall be brought
forth and effective upon a resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
151.040 through
151.093 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 60 days or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
(Ord. 450, passed 9-9-2003)
CHAPTER 152: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan of the city is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1998 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 358, passed 6-8-1999; Ord. 511, passed 9-12-2006;
Ord. 512, passed 9-12-2006; Ord. 533, passed 8-14-2007; Ord. 675, passed 11-14-
2017; Ord. 698, passed 7-24-2018; Ord. 710, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 722, passed
8-27-2019; Ord. 743, passed 5-5-2020; Ord. 806, passed 3-14-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS; FINANCE
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REZONING
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes parcels beginning at a light stake marking the
413      6-11-2002   northwest corner of the northwest quarter of the southwest
                     quarter
                     Annexes three parcels, beginning at a GLO concrete
470      4-13-2004   monument marking the southeast corner of Section 15,
                     Township 6 South, Range 12 West
510      9-12-2006   Annexes eight parcels, including Lot 9, Block 15, and land
                     beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 9
784      5-24-2022   Annexes a parcel of land lying and being in the northeast
                     quarter of Section 23, Township 6 South, Range 12 West
                    
 
TABLE II: BONDS; FINANCE
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the city to issue public service facilities
349      12-22-1997  revenue bonds to fund programs to finance the cost of the
                     acquisition, renovation, construction and equipping of
                     public service facilities
578      3-8-2011    Adopts a five-year schedule of capital improvements for
                     the city
694      5-22-2018   Adopts a five-year schedule of capital improvements for
                     the city
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
16       9-2-1969    Grants franchise to Florida Power Corporation for electric
                     franchise for a 30-year period
57       9-9-1975    Grants franchise to St. Joseph Telephone and Telegraph
                     Company for 30 years
99       8-12-1980   Grants 20-year franchise to St. Joe Natural Gas Co., Inc.
106      1-27-1981   Grants non-exclusive franchise to Cable Vision of the city
                     for a community television system for a 20-year term
123      8-10-1982   Amends Ord. 106, passed 1-27-1981
333      10-8-1996   Grants to Florida Power Corporation a non-exclusive
                     electric utility franchise
380      9-12-2000   Grants 20-year franchise to St. Joe Natural Gas Co., Inc
                     for a gas works system
387      2-13-2001   Grants non-exclusive franchise to Mediacom Southeast LLC
493      7-19-2005   Grants franchise to GTC, Inc. for telecommunications
                     system
                    
 
TABLE IV: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
409      12-11-2001  A 0.172-acre parcel changed from Tourist Residential (TR)
                     to Tourist Commercial (TC) on zoning map
                     Rezones land beginning at a light stake marking the
414      8-6-2002    northwest corner of the northwest quarter of the southwest
                     quarter to Residential Low Density (RLD) from Agricultural
                     (County)
                     Amends Comprehensive Plan by changing land from
513      9-12-2006   Agricultural, Agricultural/Timberland and Residential to
                     Tourist Mixed Use
676      11-14-2017  Rezones property located between N. 22nd Street and 38th
                     Street from Residential Low Density to Tourist Mixed Use
                     Adopts Planned Unit Development Overlay District (PUD) for
                     the parcels of land containing approximately 554 acres
741      2- -2020    located along the west side of the city on both the north
                     and south side of Highway 98, including parcel ID Nos.
                     04101-010-000, 04101-030-000, 04101-031-000, 04101-040-
                     000, 04101-050-000, 04101-060-000, and 04102-010-000.
                     Rezones parcels located on Miramar Drive, S 42nd Street, S
                     41st Street, S 40th Street, S 39th Street, S 38th Street,
749      10-27-2020  S 37th Street, S 35th Street, S 32nd Street, S 29th
                     Street, and U.S. Highway 98 between S 23rd Street and N
                     22nd Street from Residential High Density to Townhome
                     District
                     Rezones parcel located at 107 S 35th Street with ID No.
759      3-9-2021    04618-010-000 from Residential High Density to Townhome
                     District
                     Rezones that certain parcel of land containing
766      8-10-2021   approximately 0.172 acres; located at 110 40th Street with
                     parcel ID No. 04108-010-000 from High Density Residential
                     to Townhome District
802      3-14-2023   Rezones Original Lots 1 & 7, parcel ID No. 04186-000-000
                     from AG-2 Agriculture/Timberland to Public/Institutional
808      4-25-2023   Zones approximately 80 acres, being Original Lots 1 & 7,
                     parcel ID No. 04186- 000-000 as Public/Institutional
809      4-25-2023   Zones approximately 24.70 acres, being 121 22nd Street
                     North, parcel ID No. 04127-010-000 as Public/Institutional
810      4-25-2023   Zones approximately 24.70 acres, being 121 22nd Street
                     North, parcel ID No. 04127-000-000 as Public/Institutional
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
472      8-10-2004   Vacates approximately 68 feet of 34th Street
690      1-9-2018    Vacates right-of-way north of US Highway 98 and south of
                     the Mexico Beach Canal
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to 1998 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO FLORIDA STATUTES
F.S. Reference Code Section
F.S. Reference  Code Section
Ch. 97—107    Charter, Art. V
99.012          31.16
100.361         Charter, §
                6.07
101             31.22
Ch. 103         54.02
112.061         Charter, §
                7.05
112.311 et seq. Charter, §
                7.04
125.69          93.06
161.053         93.02
Ch. 162         10.19,
                113.06
162.22          10.99
Ch. 163         Charter, §
                1.04
163.3180        30.45,
                30.47
163.3180(5)(b)  30.25
163.3180(6)     30.20,
                30.25
163.3180(11)    30.25
163.3180(12)    30.47,
                30.51
163.3180(16)(b) 30.48
163.3187        30.25
163.3202(3)     151.015
163.3220        30.26
                Charter, §
Ch. 166         1.04,
                34.15
166.021         151.016
                Charter, §
166.031         7.08, Charter, §
                7.09
166.032         Charter, §
                6.01
166.041         Charter, §
                2.11
166.0415        31.01
Ch. 170         151.027
Ch. 173         151.027
180.191         52.30,
                52.48
196.075         34.15
196.131         34.17
196.161         34.17
202.10 et seq.  34.01
Ch. 205         110.14
Ch. 316         70.01
316.072         70.05
316.072(3)      70.06
317.003         114.04
318.14          72.99
320.01(22)      71.01
327.02(30)      95.16
327.70          95.35
327.73          95.99
327.74          95.99
334.03          30.22
339.155         30.53
339.61—339.64 30.22
375.314         73.03
                110.14,
                151.048,
                151.049,
Ch. 489         151.050,
                151.055,
                151.060,
                151.061
509.242         151.019
Ch. 553         151.084
Ch. 569         113.02,
                113.03
569.12          113.03
604.50          152.042
760.34          92.07
775.21          132.03
794.011         132.03
800.04          132.03
827.27          90.99
827.071         132.03
828.073         90.02
847.0145        132.03
943.0435        132.03
943.25(3)       33.10
944.607         132.03
                
 
REFERENCES TO 1998 CODE
1998 Code Section 2015 Code Section
1998 Code Section 2015 Code Section
31.15             31.01
32.01             33.01
32.02             33.02
32.03             33.03
32.05             33.04
32.06             33.05
32.08             33.06
32.09             33.07
32.10             33.08
32.11             33.09
32.12             33.10
32.13             33.11
33.01             31.15
33.02             31.16
33.03             31.17
33.04             31.18
33.05             31.19
33.06             31.20
33.07             31.21
33.08             31.22
33.09             31.23
33.10             31.24
33.11             31.25
35.01             30.01
91.01             96.01
91.02             96.02
91.03             96.03
91.04             96.04
91.05             96.05
91.06             96.06
91.07             96.07
91.08             96.08
92.01             95.01
92.02             95.02
92.03             95.03
92.35             95.15
92.36             95.16
92.37             95.17
92.38             95.18
92.39             95.19
92.40             95.20
92.41             95.21
92.99             95.99
93.01             94.01
93.02             94.02
93.03             94.03
93.04             94.04
93.05             94.05
93.06             94.06
93.07             94.07
93.08             94.08
93.99             94.99
94.01             92.01
94.02             92.02
94.03             92.03
94.04             92.04
94.05             92.05
94.06             92.06
94.07             92.07
94.08             92.08
94.09             92.09
94.10             92.10
94.11             92.11
94.99             92.99
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.09            110.09
110.10            110.10
110.11            110.11
110.12            110.12
110.13            110.13
110.14            110.14
110.99            110.99
130.01            130.01
152.01            153.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
423      - -         34.01
16       9-2-1969    TSO III
57       9-9-1975    TSO III
99       8-12-1980   TSO III
106      1-27-1981   TSO III
109      8-25-1981   33.10
123      8-10-1982   TSO III
144      12-13-1983  96.01—
                     96.08
166      9-10-1985   95.02,
                     95.99
177      4-8-1986    30.01,
                     30.03
185      6-10-1986   130.01
188      6-10-1986   95.01
191      7-8-1986    95.03
                     110.01—
198      2-10-1987   110.14,
                     110.99
274      12-13-1988  95.15
245      8-13-1991   31.01
                     94.01—
256      12-10-1991  94.08,
                     94.99
                     95.16—
274      5-11-1993   95.21,
                     95.99
                     94.01,
285      12-14-1993  94.08,
                     94.99
302      2-14-1995   131.01,
                     131.99
305      6-13-1995   31.15—
                     31.25
308      9-12-1995   33.01—
                     33.10
                     92.01—
336      1-14-1996   92.11,
                     92.99
333      10-8-1996   TSO III
340      3-11-1997   33.11
348      12-9-1997   110.14
349      12-22-1997  TSO II
358      6-8-1999    153.01
380      9-12-2000   TSO III
381      10-10-2000  150.01
387      2-13-2001   TSO III
                     90.01—
388      2-13-2001   90.14,
                     90.99
                     70.01—
391      4-10-2001   70.10,
                     70.99
392      5-8-2001    33.13
398      9-11-2001   33.07
399      10-9-2001   93.01—
                     93.08
409      12-11-2001  TSO IV
                     72.01—
390      6-11-2002   72.12,
                     72.99
413      6-11-2002   TSO I
414      8-6-2002    TSO IV
                     95.35,
425      9-9-2002    95.36,
                     95.99
430      11-12-2002  34.15—
                     34.21
431      11-12-2002  35.01
432      3-11-2003   150.02,
                     150.99
435      4-8-2003    113.01—
                     113.08
443      7-8-2003    151.001
444      7-8-2003    35.01
445      8-12-2003   33.06,
                     33.13
446      9-9-2003    10.19,
                     10.99
447      9-9-2003    91.01—
                     91.05
                     151.040—
450      9-9-2003    151.093,
                     151.999
458      9-9-2003    35.01
462      10-14-2003  95.04,
                     95.99
                     Charter, §§
                     2.02,
468      4-13-2004   2.03,
                     5.05;
                     31.15,
                     31.25
470      4-13-2004   TSO I
                     52.01—
                     52.19,
471      4-13-2004   52.30—
                     52.47,
                     52.99
472      8-10-2004   TSO V
483      3-8-2005    151.015—
                     151.027
                     53.01—
                     53.03,
485      4-12-2005   53.15,
                     53.16,
                     53.17
486      4-12-2005   31.40—
                     31.43
487      5-11-2005   50.01
493      7-19-2005   TSO III
494      8-9-2005    112.01—
                     112.08
499      9-13-2005   31.44
                     132.01—
515      5-9-2006    132.04,
                     132.99
518      8-8-2006    72.07
510      9-12-2006   TSO I
511      9-12-2006   153.01
512      9-12-2006   153.01
513      9-12-2006   TSO IV
526      10-25-2006  35.01
528      12-12-2006  52.01,
                     52.07
529      12-12-2006  54.18
531      1-9-2007    30.45—
                     30.54
532      1-9-2007    30.15—
                     30.30
544      6-12-2007   150.01
546      6-12-2007   34.17
540      7-10-2007   150.03
533      8-14-2007   153.01
552      11-13-2007  35.01
555      3-11-2008   90.13
559      7-8-2008    150.04
563      9-9-2008    73.01—
                     73.03
564      10-14-2008  95.02
                     71.01—
569      8-11-2009   71.06,
                     71.99
573      11-10-2009  132.02
578      3-8-2011    TSO II
581      10-11-2011  111.01—
                     111.06
583      10-11-2011  35.01
591      5-8-2012    35.01
596      12-11-2012  31.43,
                     35.01
597      2-12-2013   31.44
                     51.01—
609      10-8-2013   51.05,
                     51.99
610      10-8-2013   31.02
612      12-10-2013  30.01,
                     30.04
616      9-9-2014    35.01
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
618      10-21-2014  52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.48
622      9-8-2015    35.01
623      10-13-2015  51.05,
                     51.99
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
625      10-13-2015  52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.48
631      1-12-2016   90.13
                     36.01,
                     36.02,
                     36.10—
632      2-9-2016    36.23,
                     36.40—
                     36.43,
                     36.60—
                     36.68
                     51.01—
633      3-8-2016    51.05,
                     51.99
634      5-10-2016   33.14
639      6-28-2016   51.03
642      8-9-2016    33.12
                     51.01—
643      9-13-2016   51.05,
                     51.99
644      10-11-2016  35.01
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
651      11-9-2016   52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.37,
                     52.48
655      12-13-2016  71.03
658      12-13-2016  51.03
662      3-14-2017   33.13
                     97.02,
664      2-28-2017   97.03,
                     97.99
671      8-8-2017    51.03
675      11-14-2017  153.01
676      11-14-2017  TSO IV
                     54.01—
                     54.18,
                     54.30—
                     54.36,
679      9-26-2017   54.50—
                     54.54,
                     54.70—
                     54.82,
                     54.100—
                     54.116
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
685      11-14-2017  52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.48
                     51.01—
686      11-14-2017  51.05,
                     51.99
                     97.01—
687      11-14-2017  97.03,
                     97.99
688      4-11-2018   114.01—
                     114.09
                     71.03—
689      12-12-2017  71.05,
                     71.99
690      1-9-2018    TSO V
694      5-22-2018   TSO II
                     98.01—
697      7-10-2018   98.14,
                     98.99
698      7-24-2018   153.01
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
708      12-11-2018  52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.48
710      2-5-2019    153.01
713      2-12-2019   151.084
714      2-12-2019   30.01
722      8-27-2019   153.01
730      9-24-2019   33.07
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
738      11-12-2019  52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.48
                     114.04,
740      12-10-2019  114.05,
                     114.07,
                     114.09
741      2- -2020    TSO IV
743      5-5-2020    153.01
745      4-14-2020   31.02
746      5-5-2020    31.25
749      10-27-2020  TSO IV
756      11-10-2020  52.08,
                     52.20
759      3-9-2021    TSO IV
760      4-13-2021   150.04
                     33.06,
763      6-22-2021   33.12,
                     33.13
766      8-10-2021   TSO IV
767      9-14-2021   52.30
768      9-14-2021   51.01
774      10-26-2021  52.08,
                     52.20
                     30.01,
777      12-14-2021  30.02,
                     30.04
778      1-11-2022   150.04
783      5-10-2022   97.02,
                     97.99
784      5-24-2022   TSO I
790      8-23-2022   33.07
798      9-27-2022   35.01
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
799      9-27-2022   52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.30
800      9-27-2022   51.05
801      12-13-2022  TSO I
802      3-14-2023   TSO IV
806      3-14-2023   153.01
808      4-25-2023   TSO IV
809      4-25-2023   TSO IV
810      4-25-2023   TSO IV
                     52.07—
                     52.09,
817      9-26-2023   52.20,
                     52.21,
                     52.30
818      9-26-2023   51.05
820      11-28-2023  71.04—
                     71.06
834      2-27-2024   150.03
835      4-9-2024    51.04
836      4-9-2024    51.05
                    
 
MEXICO BEACH
Land Development Code
As Amended through February 13, 2024
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a14eb144d95ad9cad239d38b1781ec35a67f0637/
IMAGES/0-0-0-661.png]
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS GENERAL PROVISIONS, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT
1.00.00   TITLE
This Code shall be entitled the “City of Mexico Beach Land Development Code”
and may be referred to herein as the “Code” or “LDC.”
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
1.01.00   AUTHORITY
This Land Development Code is enacted pursuant to the requirements and
authority of F.S. § 163.3202 (the Community Planning Act), the City Charter
(effective as of September 12, 2008), and the general powers in F.S. Chapter
166, (City Government).
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.02.00 APPLICABILITY
   1.02.01   General Applicability
Except as specifically provided below, the provisions of this Code shall apply
to all development in the City and no development shall be undertaken without
prior authorization pursuant to this Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.02.02   Exceptions
   A.   Previously Issued Development Permits
The provisions of this Code and any amendments thereto shall not affect the
validity of any lawfully issued and effective development permit if:
      1.   The development activity authorized by the permit has been commenced
prior to the effective date of this Code.
      2.   The development activity continues without interruption (except
because of war or natural disaster) until the development is complete. If the
development permit expires, any further development on that site shall occur
only in conformance with the requirements of this Code.
   B.   Consistency with Plan
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to authorize development that is
inconsistent with the City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.03.00   FINDINGS
   1.03.01   General Findings
   A.   Statutory Requirement
Florida Statutes, Chapter 163, requires each Florida local government to enact
a single land development code which implements and is consistent with the
local comprehensive plan and which contains all land development regulations
for the City.
   B.   General Public Need
Controlling the location, design and construction of development within the
City is necessary to maintain and improve the quality of life in the City as
more fully described below.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.03.02   Specific Findings Relating to the Various Subject Areas of this
Code
With regard to the following specific subject areas of this Code, the City
Council finds:
   A.   Administration and Enforcement
      1.   A single set of administrative procedures for making all land use
decisions promotes efficiency, predictability, and citizen participation.
      2.   All development proposals should undergo a development review
process to assure compliance with the requirements of this Code.
      3.   All administrative decisions should be supported by a record with
written findings to assure accountability and efficient appellate review.
      4.   A quick, efficient, and non-political avenue of appeal should be
available for all ministerial and administrative decisions.
      5.   Enforcement of development orders and the provisions of this Code
should be through procedures that are efficient, effective and consistent with
the code enforcement procedures established by state law.
   B.   Signs
      1.   The manner of the erection, location, and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, morals, and welfare of the people of this
community.
      2.   The safety of motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, other users of the
public streets is affected by the number, size, location, lighting, and
movement of signs that divert the attention of drivers.
      3.   The size and location of signs may, if uncontrolled, constitute an
obstacle to effective fire-fighting techniques.
      4.   The construction, erection, and maintenance of large signs suspended
from or placed on the tops of buildings, walls, or other structures may
constitute a direct danger to pedestrian and vehicular traffic below,
especially during periods of strong winds.
      5.   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs may degrade the aesthetic
attractiveness of the natural and manmade attributes of the community and
thereby undermine the economic values of tourism, visitation, and permanent
economic growth.
   C.   Landscaping and Tree Protection
      1.   Landscaping and buffering development with trees and other
vegetation promotes the health, safety and welfare of the community to such an
extent as to justify the imposition of landscaping and buffering requirements.
      2.   Trees and landscaping benefit the community by:
         a.   Absorbing carbon dioxide and returning oxygen to the atmosphere;
         b.   Precipitating dust and other particulates from the air;
         c.   Providing wildlife habitat, particularly for birds which in turn
help control insects;
         d.   Providing soil stabilization which reduces erosion and mitigates
the effect of flooding;
         e.   Providing shade which reduces energy consumption and glare,
making outdoor areas more comfortable during the warm months;
         f.   Making the built environment more attractive by adding a variety
of color, shape, and pattern and thus increasing community pride and the value
of property;
         g.   Providing attractive buffering between incompatible land uses;
and
         h.   Abating noise.
      3.   Because native vegetation is adapted to local diseases, pests, soil,
and climate, it is generally more economical and desirable than exotic species
which require more pesticide, fertilizer and water.
      4.   Exotic vegetation can crowd out native vegetation, use more water,
and damage the environment from increased use of fertilizers and pesticides.
      5.   Because some trees are more beneficial than others, the public
benefits of tree protection may be obtained without preserving each and every
tree.
   D.   Off-Street Parking and Loading
      1.   Off-street parking and loading of vehicles promotes the public
safety and welfare by reducing traffic congestion.
      2.   Well-designed off-street parking and loading areas promote the safe
and efficient storage, loading, and circulation of vehicles.
      3.   Deferring the construction of some parking areas pending
determination of the actual need for parking spaces, and taking into account
public demand and the size of vehicles to be parked, conserves open space and
developable land, and reduces the expense and hazard of controlling stormwater
runoff.
      4.   Allowing the use of porous paving materials and unpaved parking
areas whenever possible conserves water and energy, moderates the microclimate,
and reduces the expense and hazards of controlling storm water runoff.
   E.   Stormwater Management
      1.   Increased stormwater runoff may cause erosion and pollution of
ground and surface water with a variety of contaminants such as heavy metals
and petroleum products.
      2.   Stormwater runoff often contains nutrients, such as phosphorus, and
nitrogen, which adversely affect flora and fauna by accelerating eutrophication
of receiving waters.
      3.   Erosion silts up water bodies, decreases their capacity to hold and
transport water, interferes with navigation, and damages flora and fauna.
      4.   Installation of impervious surfaces increases the volume and rate of
stormwater runoff and decreases groundwater recharge.
      5.   Improperly managed stormwater runoff increases the incidence and
severity of flooding and endangers property and human life.
      6.   Improperly managed stormwater runoff alters the salinity of
estuarine areas and diminishes their biological productivity.
      7.   Degradation of ground and surface waters imposes economic costs on
the community.
      8.   Eighty to ninety-five percent of the total annual loading of most
stormwater pollutants discharged into receiving waters are concentrated in the
flush created by the first one inch of rainfall (“first flush”), and carried
off-site in the first one-half inch of runoff.
      9.   Improperly managed stormwater adversely affects the drainage of off-
site property.
   F.   Floodplain Protection
      1.   Flooding is a natural, recurring occurrence in the City.
      2.   Naturally flood-prone lands serve the following important functions
in the regional hydrologic cycle and ecological system:
         a.   They provide natural storage and conveyance of flood waters.
         b.   They facilitate groundwater recharge.
         c.   They provide temporary storage of surface waters that moderates
flood elevations and the timing, velocity, and rate of flood discharges.
         d.   Flooding of developed properties may lead to demands that the
government construct expensive and environmentally damaging projects to control
flood waters.
         e.   Normally flood-free lands are placed at risk of flooding when
flood waters on natural flood-prone areas are obstructed, diverted, displaced,
or channelized by development.
         f.   Water quality is degraded, the supply of freshwater to estuaries
is disrupted and habitat is lost.
         g.   Property values are lowered and economic activity is disrupted by
damaging floods.
   G.   Protection of Environmentally Sensitive Lands and Other Protected
Natural Resources
      1.   Protection of environmentally sensitive lands and other natural
resources promote the well being of the people of the City as described below
and in the Conservation Element of the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   Wetlands serve the following beneficial functions:
         a.   Wetlands provide natural storage and conveyance of flood waters
and minimize erosion and sedimentation by reducing flood flows and the velocity
of flood waters.
         b.   Coastal wetlands, and inland wetlands adjoining larger lakes and
rivers, protect wildlife and the shoreline from destructive wave action.
         c.   Wetlands filter and help decompose sediments, nutrients, and
other natural and man-made pollutants that would otherwise degrade surface and
ground waters.
         d.   Wetlands support commercial and recreational fishing because they
provide essential nutrients and hatcheries for aquatic life.
         e.   Wetlands provide habitat for rare and endangered species, and
provide essential breeding and protective habitats for many other birds,
mammals, and reptiles.
         f.   Wetlands recharge ground and surface water.
      3.   Shorelines serve the following beneficial functions:
         a.   Land adjoining waters or wetlands, which can generally be divided
into submergent, transitional, and upland vegetation zones, provides essential
habitat for many plant and animal species, including species that are
endangered, threatened, or of special concern.
         b.   Submergent, transitional, and upland vegetation zones serve as
effective buffers against noise and other human activities which may have
adverse affects on aquatic and wetland dependent wildlife.
         c.   Submergent, transitional, and upland vegetation zones help slow
stormwater runoff flows and increase infiltration of water, nutrients, and
other substances.
         d.   Submergent, transitional, and upland vegetation zones reduce
predation by domestic pets on wetland and wetland dependent wildlife species.
      4.   Federal and state regulations mandate the protection of endangered
and threatened species.
      5.   Agricultural and development activities have destroyed or impaired
the beneficial functions of many environmentally sensitive lands in the City.
      6.   Federal and state regulations do not adequately protect
environmentally sensitive lands, thus making local regulation necessary.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.04.00   INTENT
   1.04.01   General Intent
With regard to this Land Development Code in general, its provisions shall be
construed and implemented to achieve the following intentions and purposes of
the City Council:
   A.   To establish the regulations, procedures and standards for review and
approval of all proposed development in the City.
   B.   To foster and preserve public health, safety, comfort and welfare, and
to aid in the harmonious, orderly, aesthetically pleasing and socially
beneficial development of the City in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   To adopt a development review process that is:
      1.   Efficient, in terms of time and expense;
      2.   Effective, in terms of addressing the natural resource and public
facility implications of proposed development; and
      3.   Equitable, in terms of consistency with established regulations and
procedures, respect for the rights of property owners, and consideration of the
interests of the citizens of the City.
   D.   To implement the Comprehensive Plan as required by the “Community
Planning Act.”
   E.   To provide specific procedures to ensure that development orders and
permits are conditioned on the availability of public facilities and services
that meet level of service requirements (concurrency).
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.05.00   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
   1.05.01   Technical Manuals
   F.D.O.T. “Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design,” (most recent
edition).
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.05.02   Maps
   City Zoning Map
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
1.06.00   RULES OF INTERPRETATION
   1.06.01   Generally
In the interpretation and application of this Code all provisions shall be
liberally construed in favor of the objectives and purposes of the City and
deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.02   Responsibility for Interpretation
In the event that any question arises concerning the application of
regulations, performance standards, definitions, development criteria, or any
other provision of this Code, the City Administrator shall be responsible for
interpretation and shall look to the City Comprehensive Plan for guidance.
Responsibility for interpretation by the City Administrator shall be limited to
standards, regulations, and requirements of this Code, but shall not be
construed to include interpretation of any technical codes adopted by reference
in this Code, nor be construed as overriding the responsibilities given to any
commission, board, or official named in other sections or articles of this
Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.03   Computation of Time
The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the
first and including the last day; if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.04   Delegation of Authority
Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or some other
City officer or employee to do some act or perform some duty, it is to be
construed to authorize delegation to professional-level subordinates to perform
the required act or duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.05   Gender
   Words importing any gender shall be construed to include all genders.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.06   Number
   Words in the singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall
include the singular.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.07   Shall, May
   The word “shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.08   Written or In Writing
The term “written” or “in writing” shall be construed to include any
representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.09   Year
   The word “year” shall mean a calendar year, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.10   Day
   The word “Day” shall mean a working day, unless a calendar day is indicated.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.11   Boundaries
Interpretations regarding boundaries of Zoning Districts shall be made in
accordance with the following:
   A.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following any street
shall be construed as following the centerline of the street.
   B.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following any platted
lot line or other property line shall be construed as following such line.
   C.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following section lines,
half-section lines, or quarter-section lines shall be construed as following
such lines.
   D.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following natural
features shall be construed as following such features.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   1.06.12   Relationship of Specific to General Provisions
More specific provisions of this Code shall be followed in lieu of more general
provisions that may be more lenient than or in conflict with the more specific
provision.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.07.00   REPEAL OF PRIOR PROVISIONS
Any ordinances and provisions in conflict with these regulations are hereby
amended by this Code as of the effective date of this Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.08.00   ABROGATION
This Land Development Code is not intended to repeal, abrogate or interfere
with any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions duly recorded in
the public records of the City.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.09.00   SEVERABILITY
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Code
is for any reason held by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining portions
of this Code shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
1.10.00   EFFECTIVE DATE
The effective date of this Code is May 21, 1991. All amendments to the Land
Development Code are effective as provided by law.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
1.11.00   RESERVED
1.12.00   ENFORCEMENT
   1.12.01   Decision Making Procedures
   It is the intent of the City Council that any person affected by actions
taken as a result of this LDC shall be afforded due process of law. Public
hearing and notice requirements are set forth in this section.
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.12.02   Legislative Actions
   The following actions by the City Council shall be considered legislative:
   A.   Any amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, including any amendment to the
Future Land Use Map.
   B.   Any amendment to the text of this Code.
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.12.03   Legislative Hearing Procedures
   The following procedures shall apply to legislative actions:
   A.   A request for any legislative action shall be made by application on a
form provided by the City no less than thirty (30) days prior to the first
public hearing when the request will be heard. Any applicable fees shall
accompany the application submission. This requirement does not ensure the
request will be heard at the next subsequent public hearing. A determination of
completeness and compliance must first be made.
   B.   Within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the request, the City
Administrator, or their designee, shall determine if the application is
complete and sufficient for review and shall notify the applicant of the
determination of completeness in writing by electronic mail or by U.S, postal
service.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of three (3) public hearings to consider any
legislative action. The first public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning
and Zoning Board, which shall make a recommendation to the City Council. The
second and third public hearings shall be conducted at meetings of the City
Council, where the ordinance affecting the change(s) shall be considered. This
section does not preclude additional hearings from occurring, as either the
Planning and Zoning Board or the City Council elects to hold additional
meetings based on the conditions of the individual case.
   D.   After the applicant receives confirmation of the meeting dates from the
City, the applicant is responsible for the provision of notice of the public
hearings on a legislative action. The applicant shall notify property owners,
as outlined below, with all three (3) hearing dates in the notification
package. This shall include the Planning and Zoning Board hearing date and both
of the City Council hearing dates. The notice requirements are as follows:
      1.   For any amendment to the Future Land Use Map:
         i.   A certified letter containing a description of the requests and
hearing information shall be mailed to the property owner of record, as
published by the Bay County Property Appraiser at the time of the application,
to those property owners within three hundred (300) feet of the parcel subject
to the request. If multiple parcels are subject to the request, the measurement
shall be taken three hundred (300) feet from each parcel. The notice shall be
postmarked no sooner than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the first
hearing. The notice must include the following information:
            a.   A summary which shall include the intent and purpose of the
request.
            b.   The address (if one is assigned) and Bay County Property
Appraiser parcel identification number.
            c.   The location, time, and date of the scheduled hearing.
            d.   A map indicating the location of the subject parcel with
roadways and other locational factors shown (e.g., waterbodies).
         ii.   Within five (5) working days of the first scheduled hearing (one
week prior), the applicant shall submit to the City:
            a.   A copy of the letter and map sent to each of those property
owners within the three hundred (300) foot radius of the subject parcel.
            b.   Each of the certified receipts. A photocopy of all receipts is
acceptable.
            c.   A list of the property owners who were mailed a notice
package.
         If the applicant does not supply this evidence to the City
Administrator or their designee by the deadline provided, the request shall be
removed from the scheduled agendas and a re-notice shall be required with the
new meeting dates.
         If the letter and/or map included in the package does not include all
correct and required information for the property owner to adequately
understand the purpose, time, and dates of hearings, or location of hearings,
the request shall be removed from the scheduled agendas and a re-notice shall
be required with the correct and required information.
   E.   At least fifteen (15) days, but no more than thirty (30) days prior to
the first public hearing, the City of Mexico Beach shall place a notice sign on
the subject parcel in a location that is visible from the most vehicular
traveled public right-of-way noting the action requested with the time, date,
and location of the hearing.
   F.   The City shall cause notification to be provided as set forth in F.S. §
50.0311, as applicable.
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.12.04   Quasi-judicial Actions
   The following actions made by the City Council shall be considered quasi-
judicial:
   A.   A variance request from the requirements of this LDC.
   B.   Issuance of development orders or permits that are not issued
administratively.
   C.   Development Agreements.
   D.   Appeals from administrative decisions.
   E.   Subdivision plats.
   F.   Changes to the Zoning Map.
   G.   Adoption of a Planned Unit Development (PUD).
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.12.05   Quasi-judicial Hearing Procedures
   The following procedures shall apply to quasi-judicial actions:
   A.   A request for any quasi-judicial action shall be made by application on
a form provided by the City no less than thirty (30) days prior to the first
public hearing that will schedule the request. Any applicable fees shall
accompany the application submission. This requirement does not ensure the
request will be heard at the next subsequent public hearing. A determination of
completeness and compliance must first be made.
   B.   Within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the request, the City
Administrator, or their designee, shall determine if the application is
complete and sufficient for review and shall notify the applicant of the
determination of completeness in writing by electronic mail or by U.S, postal
service.
   C.   There shall be a minimum of two (2) public hearings to consider any
quasi-judicial action. The first public hearing shall be conducted by the
Planning and Zoning Board, which shall make a recommendation to the City
Council. The second public hearing shall be conducted at a meeting of the City
Council, where the request shall be considered. This section does not preclude
additional hearings from occurring, as either the Planning and Zoning Board or
the City Council elects to hold additional meetings based on the conditions of
the individual case. Additionally, any request that requires action by adoption
of an ordinance shall have a minimum of three (3) hearings.
   D.   After the applicant receives confirmation of the meeting dates from the
City, the City applicant is responsible for the provision of notice of the
public hearings for this type of action. The applicant shall notify property
owners, as outlined below, with all applicable hearing dates in the
notification package. This shall include the Planning & Zoning Board hearing
date and both of the City Council hearing dates. The notice requirements are as
follows:
      1.   For any quasi-judicial decision:
         i.   A certified letter containing a description of the requests and
hearing information shall be mailed to the property owner of record, as
published by the Bay County Property Appraiser at the time of the application,
to those property owners within three hundred (300) feet of the parcel subject
to the request. If multiple parcels are subject to the request, the measurement
shall be taken three hundred (300) feet from each parcel. The notice shall be
postmarked no sooner than fifteen (15) days prior to the first date of the
hearing. The notice must include the following information:
            a.   A summary which shall include the intent and purpose of the
request.
            b.   The address (if one is assigned) and Bay County Property
Appraiser parcel identification number.
            c.   The location, time, and date of the scheduled hearing.
            d.   A map indicating the location of the subject parcel with
roadways and other locational factors shown (e.g., waterbodies).
         ii.   Within five (5) working days of the first scheduled hearing (one
week prior), the applicant shall submit to the City:
            a.   A copy of the letter and map sent to each of those property
owners within the three hundred (300) foot radius of the subject parcel.
            b.   Each of the certified receipts. A photocopy of all receipts is
acceptable.
            c.   A list of the property owners who were mailed a notice
package.
            If the applicant does not supply this evidence to the City
Administrator or their designee by the deadline provided, the request shall be
removed from the scheduled agendas and re-notice shall be required with the new
meeting dates. If the letter and/or map included in the package does not
include all required information for the property owner to adequately
understand the purpose, time, and dates of hearings, or location of the
hearing, the request shall be removed from the scheduled agendas and a re-
notice shall be required with the correct and required information.
   E.   At least fifteen (15) days, but no more than thirty (30) days prior to
the first public hearing, the City of Mexico Beach shall place a notice sign on
the subject parcel in a location that is visible from the most vehicular
traveled public right-of-way noting the action requested with the time, date,
and location of the hearing.
   F.   The City shall cause notification to be provided as set forth in F.S. §
50.0311, as applicable.
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   1.12.06   Quasi-judicial Hearing Standards
   The following standards shall apply to quasi-judicial hearings held before
the Planning and Zoning Board and before the City Council:
   A.   Exparte communications shall be disclosed prior to any testimony or
presentation of the case.
   B.   Any party or intervenor to the hearing may present evidence, cross-
examine witnesses, and be informed as to all of the facts upon which the City
Council acts. The attorney for the presiding body shall make rulings on any
evidentiary issue presented. Any presentations made by the applicant or any
party or intervenor in an evidentiary presentation shall not be limited in
time.
   C.   The presiding body shall make decisions based on findings of fact that
are available to all parties involved. The presiding body shall specifically
state the reasons for denial of an application or request.
   D.   A record of the hearing shall be compiled and preserved. The record
must be in sufficient detail as to provide for judicial review of the legal
sufficiency of the evidence to support the findings of fact made, the legal
sufficiency of the findings of fact supporting the reasons given, and the legal
adequacy under applicable law. Any person wishing to appeal any decision must
ensure that a verbatim recording of the proceeding is made.
   E.   All witnesses shall testify under oath and witness testimony shall not
be limited in time.
   (Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
ARTICLE II
ZONING
2.00.00   GENERALLY
   2.00.01   Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to describe the specific uses and restrictions
that apply to Zoning Districts in the land use element of the comprehensive
plan. These regulations are intended to allow development and use of property
only in compliance with the goals, objectives, and policies of the City of
Mexico Beach as expressed in the City Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.00.02   Definitions
   Abut
To physically touch or border upon, or to share a common property line.
   Adult Congregate Living Facility (ACLF)
A type of residential care facility, defined in F.S. Chapter 400, Part 2.
   Agricultural Activity
Any farming and forestry operation affecting land or waters such as site
preparation, clearing, fencing, contouring, soil preparation, plowing,
planting, harvesting, construction of access roads, extraction of stumps and
submerged logs, and placement of bridges and culverts.
   Beach
“Beach” means that area of unconsolidated material that extends landward from
the mean low-water line of the Gulf of Mexico, to the frontal dune, or where
there is no frontal dune, to the line of permanent vegetation or construction,
whichever is more seaward.
   Condominiums
A multiunit project consisting of individual ownership of a dwelling unit and
undivided ownership of common areas.
   Density or Gross Density
The total number of dwelling units divided by the total site area, including
land dedicated or proposed to be dedicated for public or private rights-of-way.
   Duplex
A multi-family dwelling containing two housing units that share a common roof
and dividing wall. A duplex provides complete but independent living facilities
for two housekeeping units, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. A duplex may not contain an
accessory apartment pursuant to the LDR.
   Dwelling Unit
A single housing unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one
housekeeping unit, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
cooking, and sanitation.
   Group Homes
Half-way houses, juvenile housing facility, nursing homes.
   Junkyard
Premises or portions thereof used for the storage or sale of used and discarded
materials, including but not limited to, paper, rags, metal, building
materials, appliances, household furnishings, machinery, vehicles, equipment,
or parts thereof. The storage for a period of two (2) or more months of two (2)
or more wrecked or partly dismantled motor vehicles, parts of dismantled motor
vehicles, or the sale of parts thereof, not capable of or not intended to be
restored to highway operating condition shall also constitute a junkyard. For
the purposes of this Code, such uses as automobile reclaiming businesses,
automotive wrecking businesses, automotive salvage businesses, and recycling
centers shall be considered junkyards.
   Lot
For zoning purposes, as covered by this Code, a “lot” is a parcel of land at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and
area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as herein required. Such
“lot” may have frontage on an improved public street and may consist of: a
single lot of record; a portion of a lot of record; a combination of complete
lots of record or of portions of lots of record; or a parcel of land described
by metes and bounds description, provided that in no case, division or
combinations, shall any residential lot or parcel be created which does not
meet the requirements of this Code.
   Lot of Record
Land designated as a separate and distinct parcel on a legally recorded
subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed filed in the records of the
Clerk of Courts in Bay County, Florida.
   Manufactured Building
A closed structure, building assembly, or system of subassemblies, which may
include structural, electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating, or other
service systems manufactured in manufacturing facilities for installation or
erection as a finished building or as part of a finished building, which shall
include, but not be limited to, residential, commercial, institutional,
storage, and industrial structures. The term includes buildings not intended
for human habitation such as lawn storage buildings and storage sheds
manufactured and assembled offsite by a manufacturer certified in conformance
with this part. This part does not apply to mobile homes.
   Mobile Home
A housing unit constructed to standards promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development through the Federal Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standard Act of 1976. The structure is
transportable in one or more sections, which is eight (8) body feet or more in
width, over thirty-five (35) body feet in length with the hitch, built on an
integral chassis, designed to be used as a dwelling when connected to the
required utilities, and not originally sold as a recreational vehicle, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein. All manufactured/modular homes are required to submit a pre-
placement survey depicting the home on the property.
   Modular Home
A housing unit composed of factory-built sections and subject to local and
State of Florida building codes.
   Multi-Family Dwelling
      Any residential structure containing two (2) or more separate dwelling
units.
   Neighborhood
Based upon the context where used, “neighborhood” can mean a defined, platted
area such as a residential subdivision or, a general area situated within one-
tenth (1/10) mile from any given location in a town or city.
   Parcel
A unit of land within legally established property lines.
   Plat
A map or drawing depicting the division of land into lots, blocks parcels,
tracts, sited, or other divisions set forth in F.S. Chapter 177.
   Recreation Vehicle
A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent foundation, which can be
towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as temporary living
accommodation for recreation, camping, and travel use and including, but not
limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, and self-
propelled motor homes.
   Single-Family Dwelling
A structure containing one (1) dwelling unit and not attached to any other
dwelling unit by any means. A single-family unit may contain an accessory
apartment pursuant to this Code.
   Studios
A structure used as a working place for small personal businesses including the
following uses:
      (1)   arts and crafts
      (2)   art, music, dancing, singing, or acting
      (3)   photography
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.01.00   ZONING DISTRICTS
Zoning Districts for the City of Mexico Beach are outlined generally in the
Comprehensive Plan, Future Land Use Element, including a map series (atlas) and
shall be considered as a factor in determining future zonings and re-zonings.
The actual Zoning Districts and classifications defined in the Land Development
Codes and delineated on the Official Zoning map of the City of Mexico Beach
shall be the determinants of permissible activities on any parcel in the
jurisdiction. Refer to the Land Development Codes, specifically including but
not limited to sections 2.00 et seq., 3.00 et seq., 6.00 et seq., and 7.00 et
seq., for the definitions of each use category and for all setback, parking,
density, pavement, height, and new development requirements and restrictions.
Allowable uses are shown in Section
2.02.02 to correlate individual land use activities with Zoning Districts. The
City Council shall adopt an Official Zoning Map of the City of Mexico Beach and
shall review, update, and revise as needed such map once every two years;
however, failure to make such review in a timely manner shall not invalidate
said map. The Official Zoning Map shall be placed at City Hall and be available
for public inspection.
   Residential Low-Density (RLD)
   Residential General (RG)
   High Density Residential (HDR)
   Tourist Commercial (TC)
   General Commercial (GC)
   Public/Institutional District (PI)
   Recreation District (REC)
   Preservation District (PRS)
   Tourist Mixed Use (TM)
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.02.00   USES ALLOWED IN ZONING DISTRICTS
   2.02.01   Generally
This Part defines and prescribes the specific uses and development standards
allowed within each Zoning District described in the Comprehensive Plan and
this Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.02.02   Zoning Districts
   A.   Residential Low Density
1. District Intent                                                                                                                       2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for single family residential at a maximum density of 6 dwelling units per acre and non-residential          The Residential Zoning District is allowed within the Residential Future Land Use Category.
development as defined below.
3. Principal Uses                                                             4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                      5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Residential single family                                                                                                        a.   Mobile homes
b.   Outdoor recreational uses, including arboretums, hiking trails, golf                                                             b.   RV parks
courses, playgrounds, ball fields, outdoor ball courts, outdoor swimming                                                                 c.   Landfills.
pools,                                                                                                                                   d.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       a.   Allowed: Pole barns, toolsheds, garages, greenhouses, storage sheds,
c.   Water-related or water-dependent uses, including boat ramps and fishing                                                          e.   Borrow pits.                                                           pools and hot tubs, gazebos, private recreational facilities (tennis,
docks and piers                                                                                                                          f.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to basketball, etc.), doghouses, bathhouses, and other customary uses not
d.   Similar outdoor recreational uses, whether public or private.         a.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in Cithese agricultural uses.                                                       restricted or prohibited either specifically or by nature of performance
e.   Educational facilities (public or private)                            Waters.                                                    g.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           below.
f.   Public buildings and grounds                                                                                                     h.   Firing ranges                                                          b.   Restricted: Playhouses (100 square feet maximum).
g.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or private)                                                                           i.   Marinas                                                                c.   Prohibited: All other uses.
h.   Churches                                                                                                                         j.   Miniature golf courses
i.   Residential care facilities,                                                                                                     k.   Race tracks
j.   Group homes                                                                                                                      l.   Medical marijuana treatment center
k.   Other similar institutional uses.
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                                                                                 Impervious Surface
Front Side                                                                    Rear Corner                                                Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    7.5 feet                                                                10   10 feet                                               0.40                                                                           32 feet
feet                                                                          feet
 
   B.   Residential General
1. District Intent                                                                                                                       2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for single family and multi-family residential at a maximum density of 6 dwelling units per acre and non-    The Residential General Zoning District is allowed within the Residential General Future Land Use Category.
residential development as defined below.
3. Principal Uses                                                             4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                      5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Residential single family
b.   Multi-family                                                                                                                     a.   Mobile homes
c.   Outdoor recreational uses, including arboretums, hiking trails, golf                                                             b.   RV parks
courses, playgrounds, ball fields, outdoor ball courts, outdoor swimming                                                                 c.   Landfills.                                                             a.   Allowed: Pole barns, toolsheds, garages, greenhouses, storage sheds,
pools,                                                                                                                                   d.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       pools and hot tubs, gazebos, private recreational facilities (tennis,
d.   Water-related or water-dependent uses, including boat ramps and fishing                                                          e.   Borrow pits.                                                           basketball, etc.), doghouses, bathhouses, personal service businesses where
docks and piers                                                               a.   Condominiums                                       f.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to the service is performed on an individual-to- individual basis and other
e.   Similar outdoor recreational uses, whether public or private.         b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in Cithese agricultural uses.                                                       customary uses not restricted or prohibited either specifically or by nature
f.   Educational facilities (public or private)                            Waters.                                                    g.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           of performance below.
g.   Public buildings and grounds                                                                                                     h.   Firing ranges                                                          b.   Restricted: Playhouses (100 square feet maximum).
h.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or private)                                                                           i.   Marinas                                                                c.   Prohibited: All other uses.
i.   Churches                                                                                                                         j.   Miniature golf courses
j.   Residential care facilities,                                                                                                     k.   Race tracks
k.   Group homes                                                                                                                      l.   Medical marijuana treatment center
l.   Other similar institutional uses.
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                                                                                 Impervious Surface
Front Side                                                                    Rear Corner                                                Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    7.5 feet                                                                10   10 feet                                               0.40                                                                           32 feet
feet                                                                          feet
 
   C. High Density Residential
1. District Intent                                                                                                                       2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for single family and multi-family residential at a maximum density of 8 dwelling units per acre and non-    The High Density Residential Zoning District is allowed within the High Density Residential Future Land Use Category.
residential development as defined below.
3. Principal Uses                                                             4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                      5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Residential single family
b.   Multi-family                                                                                                                     a.   Mobile homes
c.   Outdoor recreational uses, including arboretums, hiking trails, golf                                                             b.   RV parks
courses, playgrounds, ball fields, outdoor ball courts, outdoor swimming                                                                 c.   Landfills.                                                             a.   Allowed: Pole barns, toolsheds, garages, greenhouses, storage sheds,
pools,                                                                                                                                   d.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       pools and hot tubs, gazebos, private recreational facilities (tennis,
d.   Water-related or water-dependent uses, including boat ramps and fishing                                                          e.   Borrow pits.                                                           basketball, etc.), doghouses, bathhouses, personal service businesses where
docks and piers                                                               a.   Condominiums                                       f.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to the service is performed on an individual-to- individual basis and other
e.   Similar outdoor recreational uses, whether public or private.         b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in Cithese agricultural uses.                                                       customary uses not restricted or prohibited either specifically or by nature
f.   Educational facilities (public or private)                            Waters.                                                    g.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           of performance below.
g.   Public buildings and grounds                                                                                                     h.   Firing ranges                                                          b.   Restricted: Playhouses (100 square feet max.).
h.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or private)                                                                           i.   Marinas                                                                c.   Prohibited: All other uses.
i.   Churches                                                                                                                         j.   Miniature golf courses
j.   Residential care facilities,                                                                                                     k.   Race tracks
k.   Group homes                                                                                                                      l.   Medical marijuana treatment center
l.   Other similar institutional uses.
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                                                                                 Impervious Surface
Front Side                                                                    Rear Corner                                                Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    7.5 feet                                                                10   10 feet                                               0.50                                                                           32 feet
feet                                                                          feet
 
   D.   Townhome District
1. District Intent                                                                            2. Allowable Location
This zoning district is created to specifically allow common wall townhomes within the City.
This district allows for single family attached and multi-family attached residential         The Townhome District is allowed within the High Density Residential Future Land Use Category.
dwelling units at a maximum density of 8 dwelling units per acre.
3. Principal Uses                  4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                      5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
                                                                                              a.   Mobile homes
                                                                                              b.   RV parks
                                                                                              c.   Landfills.
                                                                                              d.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       a.   Allowed only if the impervious surface is less than the maximum
a.   Residential single family,                                                            e.   Borrow pits.                                                           allowed: Sheds, detached garages, greenhouses, pools and hot tubs,
attached                           a.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in Cif.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to gazebos, doghouses, bathhouses, personal service businesses where the
b.   Multi-family               Waters.                                                    these agricultural uses.                                                       service is performed on an individual-to- individual basis and other
c.   Residential care facilities,                                                          g.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           customary uses not restricted or prohibited either specifically or by
d.   Group homes                                                                           h.   Firing ranges                                                          nature of performance below.
                                                                                              i.   Marinas                                                                b.   Prohibited: All other uses.
                                                                                              j.   Miniature golf courses
                                                                                              k.   Race tracks
                                                                                              l.   Medical marijuana treatment center
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                                      Impervious Surface
Front Side1                        Rear Corner                                                Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    0 feet                       10   10 feet                                               0.85                                                                           32 feet
feet                               feet
1 For any parcel that shares a side boundary with a parcel is not zoned
Townhome District, that Townhome District parcel must comply with a 7.5 foot
side setback on that shared side boundary.
   E.   General Commercial
 
1. District Intent                                                                                                                          2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for single family residential at a maximum density of 18 dwelling units per acre and commercial land uses as    The General Commercial Zoning District is allowed within the General Commercial Future Land Use Category.
defined below.
3. Principal Uses                                                             4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                         5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Community centers and fraternal lodges.
b.   Commercial or trade schools such as dance and martial arts studios
c.   Department stores and other retail sales stores, such as shoe stores,
clothing stores, pharmacies, florists, and book stores.                                                                                                                                                                    Restricted:
d.   Funeral homes, cemeteries, and mortuaries.                                                                                          a.   Landfills.                                                             a.   Areas and sheds for outside storage shall be enclosed by opaque fencing of
e.   Farm and garden supply, building supply, and vehicle parts and                                                                      b.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       at least six (6) feet in height.
accessories (including vehicle sales/service/repair).                         a.   Condominiums                                          c.   Borrow pits.                                                           b.   No accessory buildings used for industrial storage of hazardous,
f.   Grocery stores, supermarkets (including convenience stores), and      b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in City d.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to incendiary, noxious, or pernicious materials shall be located nearer than one
specialty food stores (such as meat markets and bakeries).                    Waters.                                                       these agricultural uses.                                                       hundred (100) feet from any property line.
g.   Hospitals                                                                                                                           e.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           Prohibited:
h.   Service businesses such as blueprint, printing, catering, tailoring,                                                                f.   Medical marijuana treatment center                                     c.   All other uses.
travel agencies, upholstery shops, laundries/dry cleaners, and light
mechanical repair stores (such as camera, TV, or bicycle repair shops).
i.   Restaurants including open air cafes.
j.   Shopping centers (but not regional malls or centers).
 
 
                                                                               4. Uses
                                                                               Allowed  5.         6.
3. Principal Uses                                                              With     Prohibited Accessory
                                                                               Council  Uses       Uses
                                                                               Approval
k.   Theaters and auditoriums.
l.   Plant nurseries.
m.   Veterinary offices and animal hospital with outside kennels.
n.   Wholesale and retail businesses for storing and/or distributing goods.
o.   Mobile home parks, recreational vehicle, and travel trailer parks.
p.   Arcades, billiards/pool parlors, bowling alleys, indoor recreational
centers, and gymnasiums/spas/ health clubs.
q.   Small taverns and bars.
r.   Residential Single Family
s.   Multi-family
t.   Educational facilities (public or private)
u.   Public buildings and grounds                                                              
v.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or private)
w.   Churches
x.   Cemeteries without funeral homes,
y.   Residential care facilities,
z.   Group homes
aa.   Other similar institutional uses.
bb.   Personal service businesses where the service is performed on an
individual-to-individual basis, including barber shops, beauty shops,
boutiques, studios, or other similar uses.
cc.   Professional offices
dd.   Medical offices or clinics
 
 
                                             4. Uses      5.         6.
3. Principal Uses                            Allowed With Prohibited Accessory
                                             Council      Uses       Uses
                                             Approval
ee.   Government offices
ff.   Financial institutions
gg.   Temporary uses, as defined in Section                       
XX.
hh.   Lodging establishments
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                  Impervious
                                                          Surface    Max
Front Side                                   Rear Corner  Ratio      Height

12    0 feet if attachment easement is in    10
feet  place; 5 feet if abutting residential  feet 12 feet 0.90       48 feet
      property
 
   F.   Tourist Commercial
 
1. District Intent                                                                                                                          2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for single family residential at a maximum density of 18 dwelling units per acre and commercial land uses as    The Tourist Commercial Zoning District is allowed within the Tourist Commercial Future Land Use Category.
defined below.
3. Principal Uses                                                             4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                         5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Boutiques
b.   Souvenir shops
c.   Restaurants and open air cafes
d.   Small hotels and small motels
e.   Marinas
f.   Single family dwellings                                                                                                             a.   Mobile homes
g.   Multi-family dwellings                                                                                                              b.   RV Parks
h.   Gasoline sales and service                                                                                                          c.   Landfills.                                                             Restricted:
i.   Gasoline sales combined with small food marts                                                                                       d.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       a.   Areas and sheds for outside storage shall be enclosed by opaque fencing of
n.   Outdoor recreational uses, including arboretums, hiking trails, golf  a.   Condominiums                                          e.   Borrow pits.                                                           at least six (6) feet in height.
courses, playgrounds, ball fields, outdoor ball courts, outdoor swimming      b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in City f.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to b.   No accessory buildings used for industrial storage of hazardous,
pools,                                                                        Waters.                                                       these agricultural uses.                                                       incendiary, noxious, or pernicious materials shall be located nearer than one
o.   Water-related or water-dependent uses, including marinas, boat ramps,                                                               g.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           hundred (100) feet from any property line.
fishing docks and piers                                                                                                                     h.   Firing ranges                                                          Prohibited:
p.   Similar outdoor recreational uses, whether public or private.                                                                       i.   Miniature golf courses                                                 c.   All other uses.
q.   Educational facilities (public or private)                                                                                          j.   Race tracks
r.   Public buildings and grounds                                                                                                        k.   Medical marijuana treatment center
s.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or private)
t.   Churches
u.   Cemeteries without funeral homes,
v.   Residential care facilities,
w.   Group homes
 
 
                                                                       4. Uses
                                                                       Allowed     5.         6.
3. Principal Uses                                                      With        Prohibited Accessory
                                                                       Council     Uses       Uses
                                                                       Approval
x.   Other similar institutional uses.
y.   Personal service businesses where the service is performed on an                      
individual-to-individual basis.
z.   Temporary uses, as defined in Section XX.
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                           Impervious
                                                                                   Surface    Max
Front Side                                                             Rear Corner Ratio      Height

12    0 feet if attachment easement is in place; 5 feet if abutting    10   12     0.80       32 feet
feet  residential property                                             feet feet
 
   G.   Public/Institutional
1. District Intent                                                                                             2. Allowable Location
This zoning district allows for public and institutional uses.                                                 The Public/Institutional Zoning District is allowed within the Public/Institutional Future Land Use Category.
3. Principal Uses                                   4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                      5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Educational facilities (public or private)                                                             a.   Landfills.
b.   Public buildings and grounds                                                                           b.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       Restricted:
c.   Pre-school and day care facilities (public or                                                          c.   Borrow pits.                                                           a.   Areas and sheds for outside storage shall be enclosed by opaque fencing of
private)                                            a.   Condominiums                                       d.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to at least six (6) feet in height.
d.   Churches                                    b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in Cithese agricultural uses.                                                       b.   No accessory buildings used for industrial storage of hazardous,
e.   Cemeteries without funeral homes,           Waters.                                                    e.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           incendiary, noxious, or pernicious materials shall be located nearer than one
f.   Residential care facilities,                                                                           f.   Firing ranges                                                          hundred (100) feet from any property line.
g.   Group homes                                                                                            g.   Miniature golf courses                                                 Prohibited:
h.   Other similar institutional uses.                                                                      h.   Race tracks                                                            c.   All other uses.
                                                                                                               i.   Medical marijuana treatment center
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                                                       Impervious Surface
Front Side                                          Rear Corner                                                Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    7.5 feet                                      10   20 feet                                               0.90                                                                           32 feet
feet                                                feet
 
   H.   Recreation
1. District Intent                                                                     2. Allowable Location
This zoning district is intended to provide limited active and passive recreation      The Recreation Zoning District is allowed within the Recreation Future Land Use Category.
areas open to the public.
                                                                           4. Uses
3. Principal Uses                                                          Allowed
                                                                          With        5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
                                                                           Council
                                                                           Approval
a.   Areas for outdoor recreational activity such as picnicking, jogging,
cycling, and hiking                                                                    a.   Landfills.
b.   Arboretums                                                                     b.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       Restricted:
c.   Golf courses                                                                   c.   Borrow pits.                                                           a.   Areas and sheds for outside storage shall be enclosed by opaque fencing of
d.   Playgrounds                                                                    d.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to at least six (6) feet in height.
e.   Ball fields                                                                    these agricultural uses.                                                       b.   No accessory buildings used for industrial storage of hazardous,
f.   Outdoor ball courts                                                            e.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           incendiary, noxious, or pernicious materials shall be located nearer than one
g.   Outdoor swimming pools                                                         f.   Firing ranges                                                          hundred (100) feet from any property line.
h.   Boat ramps                                                                     g.   Miniature golf courses                                                 Prohibited:
i.   Fishing docks and piers                                                        h.   Race tracks                                                            c.   All other uses.
j.   Marinas                                                                        i.   Medical marijuana treatment center
k.   Similar outdoor recreational uses
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                                                               Impervious Surface
Front Side                                                                 Rear Corner Ratio                                                                          Max Height

20    7.5 feet                                                             10   20     0.80                                                                           32 feet
feet                                                                       feet feet
 
   I.   Preservation
1. District Intent       2. Allowable Location
This zoning district is
intended to protect and
preserve natural         The Preservation Zoning District is allowed within the Preservation Future Land Use
resources and locally    Category.
designated
environmentally
sensitive resources.
             4. Uses
3. Principal Allowed                                                                                    6.
Uses         With        5. Prohibited Uses                                                             Accessory
            Council                                                                                    Uses
             Approval
Passive
recreational             a.   Landfills.
activities               b.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.
such as                  c.   Borrow pits.
those                    d.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to
relating to              these agricultural uses.
beach                    e.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                            
activities,              f.   Firing ranges
beach re-                g.   Marinas
nourishment,             h.   Miniature golf courses
and dune                 i.   Race tracks
crossover                j.   Medical marijuana treatment center
boardwalks.
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                 Impervious Surface                                                             Max
Front Side   Rear Corner Ratio                                                                          Height

None  None   None None   0.2                                                                            None
Development within this district is restricted to that which is created to preserve, enhance, or mitigate
previous development of natural hazard activities which have degraded the natural state. All City-owned access to
beach dunes and beach areas shall be preserved without exception.
 
   J.   Tourist Mixed Use
 
1. District Intent                                                                                                     2. Allowable Location
This district provides for an integrated mix of resort uses that are predominantly tourist-oriented and seasonal in
nature; development will be designed to encourage connectivity among the uses and clustered to the extent practicable
to provide open space and to protect environmentally sensitive areas. This zoning district allows for single family    The Tourist Mixed Use Zoning District is allowed within the Tourist Mixed Use Future Land Use Category.
residential and multi-family at a maximum density of 2 dwelling units per acre and commercial land uses as defined
below.
3. Principal Uses                                        4. Uses Allowed With Council Approval                         5. Prohibited Uses                                                             6. Accessory Uses
 
a.   Single family
b.   Multi-family, and any ancillary uses;                                                                          a.   Mobile home parks                                                      Restricted:
c.   Hotel, motel, and other temporary lodging units;                                                               b.   Landfills.                                                             a.   Areas and sheds for outside storage shall be enclosed by opaque fencing of
d.   Neighborhood and community-scale commercial;                                                                   c.   Hazardous waste collection and handling centers.                       at least six (6) feet in height.
e.   Beach clubs and other recreational uses;         a.   Condominiums                                          d.   Borrow pits.                                                           b.   No accessory buildings used for industrial storage of hazardous,
f.   Public and private uses such as offices and      b.   Docks, piers, wharves, and similar structures in City e.   Pastures, forestry, feed lots, and buildings which are an accessory to incendiary, noxious, or pernicious materials shall be located nearer than one
services;                                                Waters.                                                       these agricultural uses.                                                       hundred (100) feet from any property line.
g.   Religious institutions;                                                                                        f.   Junkyards and salvage yards.                                           Prohibited:
h.   Marinas and water related facilities;                                                                          g.   Medical marijuana treatment center                                     c.   All other uses.
i.   Infrastructure
j.   Entertainment facilities.
 
 
7.   Development Standards
Setbacks                                        Impervious Surface
Front   Side                    Rear    Corner  Ratio              Max Height

        0 feet if attachment
12 feet easement is in place; 5 20 feet 12 feet 0.70               48 feet
        feet if abutting
        residential property
8.   Development Restrictions
A.   In the Tourist Mixed Use Zoning District at least three principal uses
must be developed on the subject property, one of which is required to be a
residential use. No principal use shall be less than 10% of the total land
area.
B.   Where practicable, native vegetation will be used for residential lots
and common open spaces. Native vegetation to be used can be identified from
Waterwise Florida Landscape as produced by Florida’s water management
districts.
C.   Connection to central water and sanitary sewer systems shall be required
prior to any certificate of occupancy being issued.
D.   The Tourist Mixed Use Zoning District may be implemented through the
Planned Unit Development process as defined in this Code.
E.   A property must be under single ownership or under unified control at
the time the Tourist Mixed Use category is assigned.
 
   K.   Residential Construction Requirements within each Land Use District
      1.   All off grade buildings shall be supported and tied to a continuous
reinforced concrete footing of sufficient size to resist the gravity, wind and
uplift forces which might be imposed on such buildings. Dry stack blocks as
piers for support of any structure is prohibited.
      2.   Any bolts, anchors, straps, tie downs or other type hardware which
originates less than twelve (12) inches above grade or ground should be of
stainless steel material. The use of any galvanized material is prohibited due
to the possible damage of the coatings during installation. This shall not
apply to any such items permanently encased in concrete.
      3.   All new or remodeled buildings shall provide some form of
architectural character with the use of design elements such as roof dormers,
extended entry way, a covered porch, decorative columns or wing walls, and/or
other features to enhance the appearance and alter the straight line or
rectangular shape of the structure.
      4.   The crawl space of an off grade building (that area located between
the grade and the lowest floor member) shall be shielded by some architectural
feature which is compatible with the design and architecture of the building so
that the line of sight from any public road or alley does not include any
portion of the underside of the structure. Such feature shall be included as
part of any building permit application.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 727, passed 7-23-2019; Ord. 744, passed 5-
12- 2020; Ord. 765, passed 8-10-2021; Ord. 833, passed 2-13-2024)
   2.02.03   Projects Developed With a Mixture of Land Uses
   A.   Residential Development is allowed within the General Commercial and
Tourist Commercial zoning districts; however, unless otherwise permitted by the
Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan or a Plan Amendment and the LDC, or a properly
approved PUD, commercial development is not allowed in residential zoning
districts. All structures shall be built to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Plan, and the LDC.
      1.   For purposes of this ordinance and section, “commercial development
or redevelopment” shall not include any space used for residential living,
rental living units of any nature, residential support quarters, or accessory
structures of any nature whatsoever.
      2.   Any mixed residential/commercial development or redevelopment
projects shall be built to commercial standards under the Florida Building
Code, as may be amended, and will be considered a land use designation for a
commercial use and shall not revert or otherwise be changed to a residential
land use of any nature for at least seven (7) years, and then only by approval
of the City Council after review by the Planning and Zoning Board. Upon
application by the landowner or his/her agent to develop or redevelop under
this ordinance, or if this ordinance is applied to a development, the owner and
his/her heirs, transferees, successors in interest, and assigns agree to all
provisions of this ordinance, specifically including the requirement that said
property shall remain commercial in nature unless changed as set forth in this
Code.
   B.   Residential Development Standards for Structures Developed or
Redeveloped in GC and TC Zoning Districts
      1.   Residential Structures developed or redeveloped in GC or TC Zoning
Districts shall adhere to the residential density requirements as set forth
above.
      2.   Length-Residential Only Structures. Developments and redevelopments
built in GC and/or TC Zoning Districts that contain residential only
improvements shall be limited in length to one hundred (100) feet, measured
from exterior wall to exterior wall, including any decks and patios which may
be located on the ends of such structure.
      3.   Landscaping. A landscaping plan shall be submitted, and must be
approved by the City Council for all commercial or mixed-use developments and
by the City Administrator for residential-only developments, with any
application for development in GC and/or TC Zoning Districts in accordance with
LDC section 4.01, et seq.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.02.04   Height Measurement
   As described in this Plan, height for properties shall be measured as
follows:
   A.   For properties landward of the Coastal Construction Control Line (CCCL)
outside the 100/500-year flood plain as indicated on the best available FEMA
Flood Insurance Rate Map, maximum height shall be measured from one (1) foot
above the crown of the road or access roads directly adjacent to the property.
If there is more than one (1) road adjacent to the property, then the road with
the highest elevation shall be used.
   B.   For properties landward of the CCCL within Zones AE, VE, or X, on the
best available FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map, maximum height shall be measured
from the base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet (freeboard).
   C.   For properties seaward of the CCCL, maximum height shall be measured
from 19.6 feet above NGVD or mean high water line (sea level).
   D.   Height shall be measured to the mean roof height for all structures.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 791, passed 8-23-2022)
   2.02.05   Change in Use or Establishment of Similar Uses
Any use that is not identified in Section
2.02.02 is prohibited unless it is substantially similar to the use named in
Section
2.02.02. A proposed change in use to a use allowed within the same Zoning
District shall be evaluated for changes in impact. A determination regarding
substantial similarity of a use or a change in use shall be made as follows:
   A.   A requested use shall be considered substantially similar when the
characteristics and off-site impacts of the requested use are equivalent in
type, intensity, degree or impact when compared to a use named in Section
2.02.02. Such characteristics include, but are not limited to:
      a.   Trip generation rates;
      b.   Typical hours of operation;
      c.   Types of traffic associated with the use (such as trucks or delivery
vehicles, automobiles, recreation vehicles, or other vehicles);
      d.   Features of the use that generate noise, odor, electromagnetic
interference or vibration;
      e.   Type and extent of parking, including whether parking areas are
lighted;
      f.   Use of loudspeakers; and
      g.   Use of outdoor storage.
   B.   The City Administrator or designee shall make a written administrative
interpretation as to the substantial similarity of a requested use that is not
named in Section
2.02.02.
   C.   The City Administrator or designee shall make a written administrative
interpretation as to the creation of additional impacts regarding a proposed
change in use. If the proposed change in use creates additional impacts, a
development order pursuant to Section 7.02.02 shall be required.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.02.055 Minimum Size for Single Family Dwellings
A Single Family Dwelling must have seven hundred (700) square feet or more of
heated and cooled area. This square footage is measured and determined as
provided by the Florida Building Code – Residential, as amended.
   (Ord. 737, passed 11-12-2019)
   2.02.06   Impervious Surface Coverage
   A.   Generally
   Impervious surface on a development site shall not exceed the ratios
provided in Section
2.02.02.
   B.   Ratio Calculation
   The impervious surface ratio is calculated by dividing the total impervious
surface by the gross site area. Water bodies and pavers are impervious and
shall be included as such in the impervious surface ratio calculation.
   C.   Alternative Paving Materials
   If porous paving materials are used, documentation shall be provided
demonstrating the permeability of the materials, and the percentage of pervious
area shall be adjected accordingly.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.02.07   Setbacks
   A.   If the site is adjacent to a major arterial roadway, the front setback
for the site will be that portion abutting the arterial roadway in all zoning
categories.
   B.   The structure may be built on the property line provided the owner
shall grant an attachment easement to the adjacent property owner(s) in Tourist
Commercial and General Commercial only.
   C.   Minimum Setbacks Between Buildings
      1.   The minimum distance between adjacent buildings shall be ten (10)
feet, except that no setback between buildings is required where an attachment
easement has been created pursuant to paragraph B of this Section.
      2.   Distance shall be measured at the narrowest space between
structures, whether a main living unit, principal structure, an allowable
attachment, or an accessory use, and shall not include roof overhang (eave).
      3.   Residential structures built either on Tourist Commercial, or
General Commercial, property must adhere to Residential building setback
requirements as shown in Section
2.02.02 with the exception of front setbacks. The front setback remains twelve
(12) feet.
   D.   Minimum Setbacks for Conservation District
Building setbacks may be greater than stated above when building on sites next
to or containing environmentally sensitive land. These setback requirements are
listed in Sections 5.02.03-B, 5.03.05-B4, 5.02.05-B, and 5.02.05-2A of this
Code.
   E.   Limited Setback Waiver
   For twenty-four (24) months following the effective date of Ord. 781, the
City will continue to consider development order applications with reduced
setbacks as provided below and may approve those applications if all of the
following requirements are met:
      1.   The limited setback waiver allows a new primary structure to be
built in the same footprint as the previous primary structure as that footprint
existed on October 9, 2018;
      2.   This waiver does not apply if the use of the property will change
(e.g. building a dwelling unit where a business was located or building a
business where a dwelling unit was located);
      3.   This waiver does not apply if the number of dwelling units on the
parcel will increase;
      4.   This waiver does not apply to accessory structures, which must
comply with the applicable current rules;
      5.   This waiver follows the land, rather than being personal to an
owner;
      6.   The waiver expires upon the expiration of the development order, but
if the project was constructed pursuant to the development order, it will be
protected by the City's regular non-conforming use rules thereafter;
      7.   The request for this limited setback waiver must be part of normal
development order application and only the regular application fee will apply
to it;
      8.   Applicants must complete forms prescribed by the City Administrator
or her designee and provide surveys, building plans and other relevant
documents if requested to either confirm the boundaries of the prior building
footprint or its distance from the property boundaries or to determine whether
the requirements of this ordinance have been met;
      9.   All development orders granted with this limited setback waiver
shall state that the requirements of this ordinance have been met and shall
describe the reduced setbacks or buildable area applicable to the parcel; and
      10.   The City shall deny any application that does not strictly meet the
requirements of this ordinance, but such requests may be considered under
standard variance procedures upon subsequent application by the owner.
Approval of this limited setback waiver does not reduce or modify any
obligation to comply with all other rules promulgated by the City and the
Florida Building Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 781, passed 4-12-2022)
   2.02.08   Specific Restrictions
   A.   Food Trailers prohibited.
      1.   Food Trailers are prohibited in the City except as provided in this
subsection.
      2.   “Food Trailer” means any structure or vehicle, fixed or mobile, used
for the purpose of selling food or beverages or producing food or beverages for
commercial purposes, and which is not:
         i.   A building compliant with the Florida Building Code and this Land
Development Code;
         ii.   A home occupation compliant with this Land Development Code and
the Florida Building Code;
         iii.   A Food Truck, as defined by subsection B. of this Section; or
         iv.   A food or beverage vending structure, vehicle, or cart operated
for a maximum of seventy-two (72) hours and only as part of festival or special
event not prohibited by the City. To qualify for this exception, at the end of
the seventy-two (72) hour period, the vending structure, vehicle or cart must
either be removed from the City or placed into storage not visible from a
public right-of-way and in compliance with this Land Development Code.
      3.   Non Conforming Use Established. Food Trailers operating within the
City prior to the Effective Date of this ordinance and holding a local business
tax receipt validly issued by the City Clerk shall be considered a
nonconforming use that is permitted to continue as governed by the rules for
structures provided by Section
7.12.00, notwithstanding that said Food Trailers are not “dwelling units.” In
addition to those rules, permissible nonconforming status shall be lost upon a
change of ownership of the Food Trailer or a relocation of the Food Trailer to
a different parcel of property. Furthermore, Subsections 7.12.00 B.3. and
7.12.00 B.4. shall not apply to these nonconforming
   Food Trailers. These nonconforming Food Trailers shall otherwise comply with
these Land Development Codes and shall be considered restaurants for purposes
of parking, landscaping, and other instances when requirements vary depending
on use of property.
   B.   Food Trucks.
      1.   Food Truck shall have the same definition as "mobile food dispensing
vehicle" pursuant to F.S. § 509.102, as amended, which initially means any
vehicle that is a public food service establishment and that is self-propelled
or otherwise movable from place to place and includes self-contained utilities,
including, but not limited to, gas, water, electricity, or liquid waste
disposal. However, to be considered a Food Truck for the purposes of this Code,
a mobile food dispensing vehicle must hold an active and valid mobile food
dispensing vehicle license from the Florida Division of Hotels and Restaurants
and a copy of such license must be kept inside of the licensed vehicle at all
times while it is located in the City. Any food dispensing vehicle that does
not strictly meet the requirements of this definition, including the
requirement to hold State of Florida licensure, shall be considered a Food
Trailer and be regulated under paragraph A. above.
      2.   Food Trucks are permitted in zoning districts that allow (i)
restaurants and open air cafes or (ii) neighborhood and community-scale
commercial pursuant to the zoning districts tables provided by Section
2.02.02 of this Code. In such cases, Food Trucks may only be placed on the
property where they will be operated after obtaining the advanced written
permission of the property owner, a copy of which shall be kept in the Food
Truck while it is located within the City. In addition, Food Trucks may be
allowed within the Recreation zoning district on publicly owned property, but
only with the advanced written permission of the government agency that owns
the location and a copy of such written permission must be kept in the Food
Truck while it is located in the City.
      3.   Food Trucks shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet from all
property lines or comply with the applicable setback rules for the property,
whichever are greater. Food Trucks shall be considered an accessory structure
for the purposes of determining setbacks. Food Trucks may not be stored or
operated in any public right-of-way within the City. Moreover, the location of
the Food Truck may not obstruct or create unsafe ingress and/or egress.
      4.   Food Truck operators shall be required to immediately comply with
any request by law enforcement and/or code enforcement officers relating to
safety, which may include relocation of the Food Truck if deemed by the officer
to be creating an unsafe situation.
      5.   Trash and recyclable receptacles shall be provided by the Food Truck
and, at a minimum, emptied daily. All trash is to be removed from the site
daily. Dumpsters of permanent businesses shall not be used without permission
of that business(es).
      6.   The Food Truck business owner shall obtain a local business tax
receipt from the City.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 779, passed 1-11-2022)
2.03.00   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
   2.03.01   Purpose and Intent.
It is the intent of this chapter to establish a planned unit development (PUD)
overlay district in an effort to provide a flexible, alternative development
procedure to encourage imaginative and innovative design for the unified
development of tracts of land, within overall density and use guidelines set
forth in the elements of the Comprehensive Plan. Furthermore, it is the general
purpose of the PUD overlay district to:
   A.   Encourage enhancement and preservation of lands which are unique or of
outstanding scenic, environmental, or cultural significance;
   B.   Provide an alternative for more efficient use of land, promoting
greater opportunities for public and private open space;
   C.   Encourage harmonious and coordinated development of the site,
considering the natural features, community facilities, pedestrian and
vehicular circulation, and land use relationship with surrounding properties
and the general neighborhood;
   D.   Require the application of professional planning and design techniques
to achieve overall coordinated development, eliminating the negative impacts of
unplanned and piecemeal development likely to result from rigid adherence to
the zoning classifications and standards found elsewhere in this Code.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.02   Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meaning given in this subsection:
Planned unit development (PUD) means a tract of land which is developed as a
unit under single ownership or control and which is planned and developed in a
single operation or within a proposed period of time by a series of scheduled
development phases according to an officially approved final PUD development
plan, which does not necessarily correspond to the property development and use
regulations of the conventional zoning districts; but which permits flexibility
in building siting and mixtures of housing types and land uses, and encourages
the utilization of usable open space and the maintenance of significant natural
features.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.03   Demonstration of Applicability.
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply generally to the creation and
regulation of all Planned Unit Developments. Where there are conflicts between
the provisions of this chapter, subdivision or other applicable ordinances or
regulations, this chapter shall apply. A proposed Planned Unit Development must
demonstrate the following:
   A.   Granting of the PUD will result in a recognized and substantial benefit
to the ultimate users of the project and to the community where such benefit
would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved.
   B.   The PUD may depart from the strict conformance with the development
standards, use and specific content regulations of this Code to the extent
specified in the PUD development plan and documents authorizing the PUD. These
deviations/departures shall result in the form of provision of exceptional
amenities, design excellence, etc.
   C.   The PUD must demonstrate compatibility with surrounding land uses. This
may be achieved through use, form, or buffers as defined in Section
4.01.06C. of the Code.
   D.   Each deviation from the strict conformance with the development
standards, use and specific content regulations of this Code shall be
enumerated in the PUD development plan. If no deviation is requested, the
underlying zoning district requirements shall apply.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.04   Area, density, and intensity requirements.
   A.   A PUD must be at least five (5) acres in area.
   B.   No minimum lot area or width shall be required within a PUD, provided
that the density and intensity of the development complies with the density and
intensity set forth in the Comprehensive Plan for the land use classification
in which the property is located and provided further that the proposed lot
lines are shown on the PUD development plan.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.05   PUD Application.
Along with a completed application, the developer shall submit a development
plan. The development plan shall include:
   A.   Total land area;
   B.   Future land use and zoning district boundaries;
   C.   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the planned
development;
   D.   Accurate legal descriptions of each separate use area, including common
open space;
   E.   A Master Plan of the entire development area; including total number of
residential units and unit types, total number of nonresidential units, and
total square footage for each type of development;
   F.   Tabulation of separate non-subdivided use area, including land area,
number of buildings, number of dwelling units, number of bedrooms, and dwelling
units per acre; and
   G.   Approximate location and amount of open space included in each
development area;
   H.   Approximate location of proposed and existing streets and pedestrian
and bicycle routes, including points of ingress and egress; the internal street
network should be extended and connected to where feasible;
   I.   A concurrency analysis that meets the requirements set forth in this
Code;
   J.   A development phasing schedule including sequence for each phase,
approximate size of the area in each phase, and proposed phasing of
construction of public recreation and common open spaces, and specified
location of buildings;
   K.   Certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication of
lands, and recording the document;
   L.   Other documentation reasonably necessary to permit satisfactory review
under the requirements of this Code and other applicable City ordinances; and
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.06   Procedure for Approval.
Before development of a PUD, the land must receive approval of a PUD
development plan following the procedures and standards of this chapter. No
plats or building permits may be issued until the PUD development plan and
accompanying data have been submitted, approved, and recorded. Application for
PUD consideration must be submitted and processed in the following manner:
   A.   Pre-Application Conference. The conference shall include an exchange of
information regarding the development of the site under the PUD procedures. It
shall be the applicant's responsibility to demonstrate consistency with the
goals, objective and policies of the comprehensive plan, land development
regulations, and all other applicable regulations and procedures. The applicant
shall request in writing a pre-application conference with the City
Administrator. The written request should provide a brief description of the
proposed PUD, i.e., size, location, description of uses, total square footage
of nonresidential uses, nonresidential floor areas ratio, description of
nonresidential uses, description of housing types, building heights, total
amount of open space, listing of deviations from bulk standards requested,
number of phases, location of all wetlands and habitat preservation area, etc.
The City Administrator shall give a written notice to the applicant stating the
date, time, and the attendees for the conference. The City's letter of response
shall inform the applicant of the fee structure described by Section
2.03.010, who can apply, PUD application package containing information on the
review process and required submittals, applicant's responsibility for ensuring
conformance and compatibility to the City's Comprehensive Plan, regulations,
and physical characteristics of the site.
   B.   PUD Development Plan. After the pre-application conference, the
applicant may submit a completed application along with a copy of the plan and
the fee set forth by Section
2.03.010. Within twenty (20) working days of receipt of a PUD application, the
City Administrator or designee shall determine whether the application is
sufficient, and:
      1.   If the City Administrator determines the application is not
complete, a written notice shall be forwarded to the applicant specifying the
deficiencies. No further actions shall be taken until the deficiencies are
corrected and the application resubmitted.
      2.   When the application is determined complete, the City Administrator
shall notify the applicant in writing of the application's sufficiency and that
the application is ready for review. The applicant shall submit eight (8)
copies of the PUD development plan.
   C.   Planning and Zoning Board Review. In accordance with the review
procedures in Article VII herein, the Planning and Zoning Board shall review
the application and determine whether the proposed plan meets the intent of the
planned unit development rules and whether it complies with the comprehensive
plan and the goals and policies for development of Mexico Beach, Florida. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall then send its recommendations to the Mexico
Beach City Council.
   D.   City Council Review and Approval. The City Council shall approve,
approve with modifications, or deny the plan, unless the applicant requests an
extension, at a public hearing noticed in accordance with Article VII of this
Code and F.S. § 166.041. The City Council's approval may only be by ordinance.
   E.   Dedications. The City Council shall be permitted to require an
applicant to make reasonable contributions including, but not limited to any
combination of the following:
      1.   Dedication of land for public park purposes;
      2.   Dedication of land for public school purposes;
      3.   Dedication of land for public road right-of-way purposes;
      4.   Construction of or addition to roads and utilities serving the
proposed project, along with a completion inspection report prepared by a
licensed engineer paid for by the applicant, when such construction or addition
is reasonably related to the traffic or utility demand to be generated;
      5.   Installation of required traffic safety devices; and
      6.   Preservation of areas containing significant natural, environmental,
historic, archeological or similar resources.
      7.   There shall be a rational nexus between the impacts of the
development and such contribution and the cost of the contribution shall not
exceed the development's proportionate share of the total costs of the
improvement.
   F.   Phasing. Subsequent phases must be submitted in general conformance
with the phasing schedule submitted by the applicant with PUD development plan.
   G.   Time Limit. The PUD must have an active building permit within three
(3) years of the date of approval, or PUD development plan approval is
withdrawn and the underlying zoning district standards apply.
   H.   Modification. Any modification by the developer of a PUD development
plan under review, but not yet approved by the City Council, must not:
      1.   Increase the proposed number of dwelling units by more than five
percent (5%);
      2.   Involve a reduction of the area set aside for open space and usable
open space, or a substantial relocation of such area;
      3.   Increase by more than five percent (5%) the total lot coverage of
all buildings and structures within the PUD; or
      4.   Increase by more than five percent (5%) in the height of any
buildings.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.07   Changes to Approved PUD Development Plan.
The City Administrator may approve minor changes following the approval of PUD
development plan. In general, a minor change shall include any change to the
interior of the development which does not increase density or intensity, or
which does not decrease buffers or open space. Any other changes shall only be
approved pursuant to the process set forth in Section
2.03.04 A.-E.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.08   Effect of PUD Overlay District.
Any development of a PUD must be undertaken and carried out in accordance with:
   A.   The approved PUD development plan;
   B.   The comprehensive plan and applicable land development regulations; and
   C.   Such other conditions or modifications as may be attached to the PUD.
Development within the PUD is subject to all applicable development permits
(i.e. environmental review, building permits, subdivision plats, etc.)
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.09   Amendments to Built Planned Unit Developments.
Any part or all of a PUD which is built may be the subject of an application
for a variance or other approval covered by the Land Development Code. The
applicant must be the owner of the property and the owners of the remainder of
the original PUD must be given notice of the application and other proceedings
as if they were owners of property abutting the subject property regardless of
their actual proximity to the subject property. For purposes of this section,
the term "built" means that the roads, utilities, buffering, open space,
surface water management features and structures, common space, common
amenities, common landscaping, gatehouse, entrance signs, entrance ways and
other similar items identified as part of the approved PUD development plan
have been constructed and acknowledged by the City as complete. In the case of
PUDs that include residential structures, the term "built" does not mean that
all residential structures have been constructed on individual platted lots.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
   2.03.010   Fees.
Each applicant for a PUD or an amendment to a PUD is required to reimburse the
City for all of the City's costs for engineering, planning, and legal services
relating to the consideration of the application and all City costs for
notices. Following the pre-application conference, the City shall provide the
applicant an estimated cost based on the nature of the application, which the
applicant must pay at the time of application submittal.
If the City's actual costs exceed the estimate, the applicant will be required
to pay the actual amount and if the actual costs are less than the estimate,
the City will provide a partial refund to the applicant. No other fee is
required for the processing and examination of the PUD application.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 716, passed 4-23-2019)
2.04.00   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
It is the purpose of this Article to regulate the installation, configuration,
and use of accessory structures in order to ensure that they are not harmful
either aesthetically or physically to residents and surrounding areas.
Definitions
   Principal structure
The principal structure shall be construed to mean the dwelling unit, house, or
commercial use located on the lot that contains the principal use.
   Principal Use
The primary use on a lot as allowed by the Zoning District within which the lot
is located.
   Accessory structure
A structure of a nature incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
Accessory structures shall be located on the same lot as the principal
structure to which they are accessory. Unless otherwise provided, if on the
same premises where a building is attached to the principal building, it shall
be considered a part thereof, not an accessory building.
   Accessory use
A use of a nature customarily and/or functionally incidental and subordinate to
the principal use on a lot.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.04.01   General Standards and Requirements
Any number of different accessory structures may be located on a parcel,
provided that the following requirements are met:
   A.   There shall be a permitted principal development on the parcel, located
in full compliance with all standards and requirements of this Code. No
accessory structure shall be permitted until the principal structure is
complete. A variance from this provision is not allowed.
   B.   Accessory structures shall not be located in a required buffer,
landscape area, or minimum building setback area.
   C.   Accessory structures shall be included in all calculations of
impervious surface and stormwater runoff.
   D.   Accessory structures shall be shown on any concept development plan
with full supporting documentation of compliance with Articles II and III of
this Code.
   E.   Maximum size of accessory structures
      1.   The total square footage for all accessory structures on a lot shall
not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the square footage of the primary
structure.
      2.   A combination of square footage of both the primary structure and
accessory structure may not exceed the allowable densities and intensities
within each Zoning District as stated in Article II Section
2.02.02 of this Code.
   F.   Vehicles, including manufactured housing and mobile homes, shall not be
used as accessory structures.
   G.   Standards
All accessory structures shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Twelve (12) feet maximum height in residential Zoning Districts,
twelve (12) feet in commercial Zoning Districts and sixteen (16) feet for
garages/carports and boatsheds.
      2.   No noise, glare, odor, vibration, or fume shall be produced by the
accessory structure itself or activities performed within the structure.
   H.   All accessory structures must satisfy the requirements of 2.01.02 of
this Code.
   I.   All accessory structures shall comply with standards pertaining to the
principal use, unless exempted or superseded elsewhere in this Code.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.04.02   Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, and Similar Structures
   A.   Swimming pools shall be permitted only in side and rear yards and shall
not encroach into any required building setback.
   B.   Enclosures for pools shall be considered a part of the principal
structure and shall comply with standards for minimum distance between
buildings, yard requirements, and other building location requirements of this
Code.
   C.   All pools shall be completely enclosed with an approved barrier as per
the Florida building code. The enclosure shall completely surround the pool and
shall be of sufficient density to prohibit unrestrained admittance to the
enclosed area through the use of self-closing and self-latching doors.
   D.   No overhead electric power lines shall pass over any pool unless
enclosed in conduit and rigidly supported, and shall conform to the standards
of the National Electric Code. No power line shall be nearer than ten (10) feet
horizontally or vertically from the pool’s water edge.
   E.   Excavations for pools to be installed for existing dwellings shall not
exceed a 2:1 slope from the foundation of the house, unless a trench wall is
provided.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.04.03   Fences
   A.   All fences to be built shall comply with the Florida Building Code. The
posts of each fence must be resistant to decay, corrosion, and termite
infestation. The posts must also be pressure-treated for strength and
endurance.
   B.   Fences or hedges may be located in all side and rear yard setback
areas. No fence located in the side and rear yard setbacks shall exceed the
height of six (6) feet. Hedges located in front yards shall not exceed three
(3) feet in height.
   C.   No fences shall be placed in front yards (the yard abutting a road or
public right-of-way and defined by extending the line of the front wall of the
principal structure to the side property lines) except as provided in section
2.04.03.I.2. below.
   D.   The waterfront side of any property shall conform to the same fence
type and placement standards as the front yard of any property.
   E.   In areas where the property faces two (2) roadways or is located in any
other area construed to be a corner lot, no fence or hedge exceeding two (2)
feet shall be located in the vision triangle, as required by Article VI.
   F.   Any fence shall be placed with the finished side facing outward from
the property.
   G.   No fence or hedge shall be constructed or installed in such a manner as
to interfere with drainage on the site.
   H.   Fences shall require permits subject to standards that include but are
not limited to fence design (type), height, material, and placement as
specified by the Mexico Beach City Council and this Code.
   I.   Exemptions
      1.   A fence required for safety and protection of hazard by another
public agency may not be subject to the height limitations above. Approval to
exceed maximum height standards may be given by the Planning and Zoning Board
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the need to exceed height standards.
      2.   Non-opaque decorative fences used strictly for landscape purposes
and not exceeding three (3) feet in height may be placed in front yards (as
defined above). A chain-link fence, for example, even if less than three (3)
feet in height, does not constitute a decorative landscape fence.
   J.   Materials [Reserved]
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.05.00   ACCESSORY USES
   2.05.02   Home Occupations
   A.   Purpose
To provide peace, quiet, and domestic tranquility within all residential
neighborhoods within the City, and to guarantee to all residents freedom from
excessive noise, traffic, nuisance, fire hazard, and other possible effects of
commercial uses being conducted in residential areas. A home occupation shall
be allowed in a bona fide dwelling unit subject to the requirements of this
section.
   B.   No person other than those persons residing on the premises shall be
engaged in such occupation and such person must have a valid business license
issued by the City of Mexico Beach.
   C.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and shall under no circumstances change the residential character of
the structure.
   D.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation,
other than one (1) sign not exceeding one (1) square foot in area, non-
illuminated, mounted flat against the wall of the principal building at a
position not more than two (2) feet from the main entrance of the residence.
   E.   No traffic shall be generated by such occupation in greater volumes
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met off the
street and other than in a front yard required pursuant to this Code.
   F.   No equipment, tools, or process shall be used in such a home occupation
which creates interference to neighboring properties due to noise, vibration,
glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio, telephone, or television receivers off the
premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   G.   Fabrication of articles commonly classified under the terms arts and
handicrafts may be deemed a home occupation, subject to the other terms and
conditions of this definition, and providing no retail sales are made at the
home.
   H.   Outdoor storage of materials shall not be permitted.
   I.   The following shall not be considered home occupations, and shall be
treated as commercial uses: band instrument instruction, studio for group
instruction, public dining facility or tea room, antique or gift shops, outdoor
repair, food processing, retail sales, nursery school, or kindergarten.
   J.   At no time shall any home occupation generate the need for more than
two (2) parking spaces at once, in addition to the two (2) spaces required for
a dwelling unit.
   K.   At no time shall any home occupation become a nuisance to neighboring
properties through generation of noise, odor, fumes, vehicular traffic
generation, eyesore, or any other manner.
   L.   The giving of individual instruction to one (1) person at a time such
as an art or piano teacher, shall be deemed an acceptable home occupation;
individual instruction as a home occupation for those activities listed in
paragraph I above shall be prohibited.
   M.   Day care shall be considered a home occupation when limited to five (5)
children at any given time and subject to the provisions of paragraph K above.
   N.   There shall be no entrance or exit way specifically provided in the
dwelling or on the premises for the conduct of the home occupation thereon.
   O.   The owner(s) and other individual(s) primarily responsible for the home
occupation shall live within the dwelling unit where said home occupation is
located.
   P.   Deliveries from commercial suppliers may not be made more than once
each week and the deliveries shall not restrict traffic circulation nor cause
nuisances of any kind.
   Q.   The lists of home occupations that are allowed or prohibited in this
section are by no means comprehensive, but instead are intended to serve as
examples of acceptable and unacceptable home occupations.
   R.   A home occupation shall be subject to all applicable city/county
occupational licensing requirements, fees, and other business taxes.
   S.   Any violation the standards and requirements set forth in this section
may result in the permanent termination of the home occupation or for a period
to be determined by the Mexico Beach City Council.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.05.03   Dining Rooms, Recreation Centers, and Other Amenities
   A.   Generally
Residential and non-residential development projects may provide amenities for
the exclusive use of the employees and/or residents of the project. Such
amenities shall be allowed only as provided below.
   B.   Dining Rooms/Cafeterias/Snack Shops, Etc.
A development may provide a central dining facility to serve the employees and/
or residents of the project subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The facility shall not be open to the general public.
      2.   There shall be no off-site signs advertising the presence of the
facility.
   C.   Community Centers/Recreation Centers
Residential projects may provide a central facility to provide a meeting place
and indoor recreation opportunities for residents subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   Such facilities shall not include health clubs, gyms, and the like
offering services to the general public.
      2.   Parking to serve the building shall be provided as required by
Article IV of this Code.
      3.   There shall be no identification signs, other than directional signs
pursuant to Article V of this Code.
   D.   Employee Fitness Centers
Non-residential development projects may provide a fitness or exercise center
for the use of employees subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Such facilities shall not be open to the general public.
      2.   There shall be no signs, other than directional or occupant signs,
identifying the facility.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.06.00   OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
   2.06.01   Purpose and Intent
It is the purpose of this section to provide appropriate standards relating to
the operation of certain activities throughout Mexico Beach. Such operations
may create or maintain such excessive noise or air pollution, as to be a
detriment to the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, and welfare.
These standards are therefore provided to protect the public interest and
promote the public health and welfare.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.06.02   Applicability
   These standards shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of Mexico
Beach.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.06.03   Standards Manual
   The following references are cited in this Article:
      40 CFR Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, “Protection of Environment”
      FAC 17-2 Chapter 17-2, Florida Administrative Code, “Air Pollution”
      APAM “Air Pollution Abatement Manual” of the Manufacturing Chemist
Association
      PHR 47 U.S. Public Health Report 47, No. 12, “Measurement of Density
Mineral Dust”
      ICR 12 Industrial Cost Rule No. 12 adopted by the Board of Standards and
Appeals of the New York State Department of Labor
      CFR 10 Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 20, Code of Federal Regulations,
“Standards for Protection Against Radiation”
      ANSI American National Standards Institute – Applicable Standards
      FAC Chapter 40A (1 – 4), Chapter 40A-6, Chapter 40A-21, and Chapter 40A-
44
      FAC Chapter 62-346, Phase I Environmental Permitting
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.07.00   NOISE CONTROL
   2.07.01   Scope
The provisions of this element apply to the control of all sound originating
within the geographical limits of the City and, outside City limits, within all
territory to which the jurisdiction of the City extends.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.02   Definitions
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   A.   A-weighted sound pressure level: The sound pressure level as measured
with a sound level meter using the A-weighing network. The standard notation is
DB(A) or dBA.
   B.   Alarm: Any fire, burglary, motor vehicle, or civil defense alarm,
whistle, or similar stationary emergency signaling device.
   C.   Construction: Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration, demolition, or similar action, for or of public or private
rights-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
   D.   Emergency: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage demanding immediate attention.
   E.   Emergency vehicle: A motor vehicle belonging to a fire department or
certified private vehicle belonging to a volunteer fireman, or fire-fighting
association, partnership or corporation, an ambulance, motor vehicle belonging
to private security agency, or a motor vehicle belonging to a federal, state,
county, or municipal law enforcement agency; provided said vehicles are in use
as an emergency vehicle by one authorized to use said vehicle for that purpose.
   F.   Emergency work: Any work for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
   G.   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR): The value specified by the
manufacturer as the recommended maximum loaded weight of a single motor
vehicle. In cases where trailers and tractors are separable, the gross
combination weight rating, which is the value specified by the manufacturer as
the recommended maximum loaded weight of the combination vehicle, shall be
used.
   H.   Land use category: The classification of an area, such as residential,
multifamily dwelling, business, commercial, industrial, noise-sensitive area or
public space, according to its use. Any area not otherwise classified shall be
considered a commercial area for the purposes of this section. In case of
multiple use, the least restrictive use category shall apply.
   I.   Motor vehicle: Motor vehicle means a vehicle with two (2) or more
wheels, or a machine, propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used on the
public roads and highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or
any combination thereof, which is required to be licensed, but does not include
any vehicle, locomotive, or car operated exclusively on rail or rails.
   J.   Noise-sensitive area: An area where a school, hospital, nursing home,
church, court, or public library is located.
   K.   Person: Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States.
   L.   Powered model vehicle: Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne, or
land-borne plane, vessel, or vehicle which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, or rocket.
   M.   Public right-of-way: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk,
alley, or similar place normally accessible to the public which is owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
   N.   Public Space: Any real property or structures thereon owned by a
governmental entity and normally accessible to the public, including, but not
limited to, parks and other public recreational areas.
   O.   Real property line: A line along the surface, and its vertical plan
extension, which separates the real property owned, rented, or leased by one
(1) person from that owned, rented, or leased by another person, excluding
intra-building real property division.
   P.   Sound level: The A-weighted sound pressure level obtained by use of a
sound level meter as specified in American National Standards Institute
specifications for sound level meters (ANSI Si.4-1971, as amended).
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.03   Excessive Noise Prohibited
No person shall continue or cause to be made or continued any loud unnecessary
or excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the comfort and repose of
others within the jurisdiction of the City of Mexico Beach.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.04   Maximum Permission Sound Levels
It shall be unlawful, except as expressly permitted herein, to make, cause, or
allow the making of any noise or sound which violates the provisions of this
element.
   A.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any source of sound
from any locations in such a manner as to create a sound level which exceeds
the limits set forth in Table 1 of the receiving land use category more than
ten percent (10%) of any measurement period, which period shall not less than
ten (10) minutes, when measured at the property boundary of the land use
category from which the sound emanates.
   B.   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter using
the A-weighing scale in accordance with the standards promulgated by the
American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
 
Table 1
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels
Land Use Category             Time                   Sound Levels dBA
Residential, public space, or 6:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m60
institutional                 10:00 p.m. – 6:00 a.m55
Commercial or business        6:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m65
                              10:00 p.m. – 6:00 a.m60
Industrial, manufacturing, or At all times           75
agricultural
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.05   Exemptions
   The following are exempt from the sound level limits of Table 1:
   A.   Domestic power tools, lawn mowers, and agricultural equipment, when
operated with a muffler between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   B.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicles when responding
to an emergency.
   C.   Noises made by persons having obtained parade or concert permits from
the City Council.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.06   Specific Prohibitions
In addition to the general prohibitions set out above, the following specific
acts are declared to be in violation of this element:
   A.   Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any motor vehicle or any street or public place in the City continuously
and/or incessantly for a period in excess of sixty (60) seconds, except as a
danger warning.
      1.   The operating or playing of any radio, television, phonograph,
musical instrument, or similar device which produces or reproduces sound in
such a manner as to exceed the levels set forth in Table 1 for the land use
category.
   B.   Animals. The owning, possessing, or harboring of any animal which
frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks, or makes
other sounds which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a residential
or commercial real property line or within a noise-sensitive area. For the
purpose of this element, “barking dog” shall mean a dog that barks, bays,
cries, howls, or makes any other noise continuously and/or incessantly for a
period of ten (10) minutes, or barks intermittently for one-half hour or more
to the disturbance of any person at any time of day or night, regardless of
whether the dog is physically situated in or upon private property; provided,
however, that a dog shall not be deemed a “barking dog” if, at the time, the
dog is barking or making any other noise, a person is trespassing or
threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which the dog is situated.
   C.   Construction and demolition. The operating of any equipment used in
construction work within fifty-two (52) yards of any residential or noise-
sensitive area between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   D.   Powered model vehicles. The operating of, or permitting the operation
of, powered vehicles:
      1.   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      2.   In such a manner as to exceed the levels set for public space land
use, measured at a distance of not closer than one hundred (100) feet from the
operator.
      3.   Emergency signaling devices.
      4.   Except in case of an emergency, the intentional sounding of any
alarm between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.07   Motor Vehicles
   A.   Maximum sound levels. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at any
time in such a manner as to exceed the sound level limits or the category of
motor vehicle shown in Table 2. The sound level shall be measured at a distance
of at least twenty-five (25) feet from the near side of the nearest lane(s)
being monitored and at a height of at least four (4) feet above the immediately
surrounding surface. This section shall apply to the total noise from a
vehicle:
 
Table 2
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels for Motor Vehicles
                                                                           Sound Level
                                                                           Limit
                                                                           Speed Sound
Land Use Category                                                          Limit Limit
                                                                           35    over
                                                                           mph   35
                                                                           or    mph
                                                                           less
Motor vehicle with a manufacture’s gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) or
gross combination weight rating (GCWR) of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or  91    95
more, or any combination of vehicles towed by such motor vehicles.
Any other motor vehicle or any combination of vehicles towed by any motor  78    78
vehicle.
 
   B.   Adequate mufflers or sound-dissipative devices.
      1.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or
motorcycle not equipped with muffler in good working order and in constant
operation.
      2.   No person shall remove or render inoperative or cause to be removed
or rendered operative any muffler or sound-dissipative device on a motor
vehicle or motor cycle other than for purposes of maintenance, repair, or
replacement.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.08   Enforcement Responsibility
The policy department shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this element; provided, however, that the City Council shall be
responsible for the issuing of special permits and the enforcement of the
conditions stated thereon.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.07.09   Penalties
Violation of this element shall constitute a misdemeanor and violators shall be
punished accordingly, however, that in the case of a violation involving a
motor vehicle, the person charged with a violation may be guaranteed a period
of fifteen (15) days in which to correct the source of the sound.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.08.00   AIR POLLUTION
   A.   Standard
To protect and enhance the air quality of Mexico Beach, all sources of air
pollution shall comply with rules set forth by the Environmental Protection
Agency (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40) and the Florida Department of
Environmental Regulations (Florida Administrative Code, Chapter 17-2). No
person shall operate a regulated source of air pollution without a valid
operation permit issued by the Department of Environmental Regulation.
   B.   Testing
Air pollution emissions shall be tested and results reported in accordance with
techniques and methods adopted by the Florida Department of Environmental
Regulation and submitted to the State. These tests shall be carried out under
the supervision of the State and at the expense of the person responsible for
the source of pollution.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.09.00   BURN CONTROL
   2.09.01   Burning of Household and Building Refuse, Branches and Trees,
Incinerators
   A.   No person shall burn household or building refuse, branches, or trees
within the corporate limits of the City.
   B.   No incinerators shall be installed without the permission of the Fire
Chief or his assistants. Operation of incinerators shall be subject to periodic
Fire Department inspections to assure that adequate fire and safety precautions
are maintained.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.09.02   Land Clearing
Contractors and land developers shall not burn brush, branches, or trees within
the corporate limits of the City. All land clearing refuse must be hauled from
the premises and properly disposed of by the contractor or developer that has
initiated the project(s). These actions may only be accomplished after proper
permitting has been obtained by either the developer or contractor.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.09.03   Fires on the Beach
   No fires will be allowed on the beach within the corporate limits of the
City.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.09.04   Fireworks
The sale of fireworks shall not commence without a permit or license from the
State of Florida and the City of Mexico Beach. Coordination between the Fire
Chief, his assistants, and individual(s) permitted or licensed to sell
fireworks will be required.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.09.05   Violation of Element
Any person or persons violating this element is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree, punishable as provided by State Statute.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.10.00   FIRE PROTECTION
   2.10.01   Mandatory Key Boxes for Fire Suppression and Standpipe Systems
When a building within the City of Mexico Beach is protected by an automatic
fire suppression or standpipe system it shall be equipped with a key box. The
Key Box shall be at a location approved by the City of Mexico Beach Building/
Fire Official. The Key Box shall be a UL type and size approved by the
Building/Fire Official.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.02   Mandatory Key Boxes for Automatic Alarm Systems
When a building is protected by an automatic alarm system and/or access to or
within a building, or an area within that building, is unduly difficult because
of secured openings, and where immediate access is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, the Building/Fire Official may require a key box to be
installed at a location approved by the City of Mexico Beach Building/Fire
Official. The Key Box shall be a UL type and size approved by the Building/Fire
Official.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.03   Key Tamper Box Switch
The Building/Fire Official may require a key box tamper switch connected to the
building’s fire alarm system.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.04   Security Padlocks
When a property is protected by a locked fence or gate and where immediate
access to the property is necessary for life saving or firefighting purposes,
the Building/Fire Official may require a security padlock to be installed in a
location approved by the City of Mexico Beach Building/Fire Official. The
Padlock shall be UL type and size approved by the Building/Fire Official.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.05   Security Caps
When a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler system or standpipe
system and fire department connection is exposed to undue vandalism the Fire
Subcode/Fire Official may require that a Fire Department Connection Security
Cap(s) be installed. The Fire Department connection Security Cap(s) shall be a
type approved by the Building/Fire Official.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.06   Non-applicability to Certain Dwellings
The term “Building” used herein means any building or structure located in the
City of Mexico Beach, whether privately or publicly owned, including, without
limitation, any building owned by the City of Mexico Beach or any other public,
quasi-public, or private entity or person provided however that this chapter
shall not apply to owner occupied one and two family dwellings.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   2.10.07   Rapid Response Key Boxes
The rapid key boxes shall contain the following:
   1.   Keys to locked points of egress, whether in interior or exterior of
such buildings.
   2.   Keys to the locked mechanical rooms.
   3.   Keys to the locked elevator rooms.
   4.   Keys to the elevator controls.
   5.   Keys to any fence or secured areas.
   6.   Keys to any other areas that may be required by the Building/Fire
Official.
   7.   A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers for
such building.
   In addition, floor plans of the rooms within the building may be required.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
2.11.00   WIND SPEED DESIGN
   2.11.01   Required Ultimate Design Wind Speed
The ultimate design wind speed, Vult, for the determination of the wind loads
for Risk Category II Buildings, as defined by the Florida Building Code, shall
be one hundred forty (140) miles per hour for all of the City of Mexico Beach.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
ARTICLE III
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
GENERAL STANDARDS
3.00.00   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   3.00.01   Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to provide development design and improvement
standards applicable to all development activity within the City of Mexico
Beach.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.00.02   Responsibility for Improvements
All improvement required by this Article shall be designed, installed, and paid
for by the Developer.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.00.03   Principles of Development Design
The provisions of this Article are intended to ensure functional and attractive
development. Development design shall first take into account the protection of
natural resources as prescribed in Article IV of this Code. All development
shall be designed to avoid unnecessary impervious surface cover; to provide
adequate access to lots and sites; and to avoid adverse effects of shadow,
glare, noise, odor, traffic, drainage, and utilities on surrounding properties.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.00.04   Definitions
   Attachment Easement
An easement granted to allow an adjacent property owner to erect or construct a
building attached to a building on the grantor’s property line where such
building has one (1) wall at the common property line.
   Frontage
The front or frontage is that side of a lot abutting on a street or way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as
the ordinary side line of a corner lot. (Planners Advisory Service, American
Planning Association, A Survey of Zoning Definitions)
   Impervious Surface
That portion of the land which is covered by buildings, pavements, or other
cover through which water cannot penetrate.
   Junkyard
An open area where wastes or used or secondhand materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, processed, or handled. Materials shall include but are not
limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles.
An automobile wrecking yard is also considered a junkyard.
   Lot
For zoning purposes, as covered by this Code, a “lot” is a parcel of land at
least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage and
area and to provide such yards and other open spaces as herein required. Such
“lot” may have frontage on an improved public street and may consist of: a
single lot of record; a portion of a lot of record; a combination of complete
lots of record or of portions of lots of record; or a parcel of land described
by metes and bounds descriptions, provided that in no case, division or
combinations, shall any residential lot or parcel be created which does not
meet the requirements of this Code.
   Lot, Corner
A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   Lot of Record
Land designated as a separate and distinct parcel on a legally recorded
subdivision plat or in a legally recorded deed filed in the records of the
Clerk of Courts in Bay County, Florida.
   Lot Split
The subdividing or splitting of any platted or unplatted parcel into two (2)
parcels, each of which will become independent parcels with individual Parcel
Identification numbers. Each parcel is required to meet the requirements of the
zoning district in which is it located.
   Neighborhood
Based upon the context where used, “neighborhood” can mean a defined, platted
area such as a residential subdivision or all similarly zoned property situated
within one-tenth (1/10) mile from any given location in a town or city.
   Nonconforming Use
A lawful use of land that does not comply with the use regulations for its
zoning district but which complied with applicable regulations at the time the
use was established.
   Plat
A map or drawing depicting the division of land into lots, block parcels,
tracts, sited, or other divisions set forth in F.S. Chapter 177.
   Recreational Vehicle Park
A development designed specifically to allow temporary living accommodations
for recreation, camping, or travel use.
   Setback
The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line and the
related front, side, or rear property line.
   Storage Building
Any site-built or portable structure (manufactured off-site and transported,
either whole or in pieces) utilized for storage of goods. Storage buildings
cannot be larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Vehicles and manufactured
housing are not permitted to be used for storage. Only one (1) storage building
per parcel is allowed.
   Subdivision (of Property)
The subdividing or splitting of any platted or unplatted parcel into three (3)
or more parcels, each of which will become independent parcels with individual
Parcel Identification numbers. The parcels created must be of sufficient size
and configuration to meet the requirements of the Zoning District in which they
are created and the requirements of this Code.
   Yard
Any open space located on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground up, except for accessory buildings, or such
projections as are expressly permitted in these regulations. The minimum depth
or width of a yard shall consist of the horizontal distance between lot line
and the nearest point of the foundation wall of the main building.
   Yard, Front
A yard extending along the full width of a front lot line between side lot
lines and from the lot line to the front building in depth.
   Yard, Rear
A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between the rear
lot line and the nearest line of the building. Rear-yard depth shall be
measured at right angles to the rear line of the lot.
   Yard, Side
A yard lying between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of the
building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or in the absence
of either of such front or rear yards, to the front or rear lot lines. Side-
yard width shall be measured at right angles to side lines of the lot.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.01.00   LOT AREA
   3.01.01   Minimum Lot Area Requirements
   A.   Requirements for All Developments
All developments shall have a total land area sufficient to meet all
development design standards in this Code including, but not limited to, land
required to provide setbacks from abutting rights-of-way, buffers, stormwater
management, off street parking and circulation, protection of environmentally
sensitive lands, and any other provisions which may require land area to be set
aside.
   B.   Specific Requirements for Residential Development
There is no minimum lot area for individual lots within a residential
development provided that all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   The land area for the total project is sufficient to meet standards
of this Code as stated in paragraph A of this Section.
      2.   Gross density of the area shall not exceed that specified in the
Section
2.02.02.
      3.   Land, exclusive of individual lots to be conveyed in fee simple
ownership, shall be controlled and maintained through a condominium
association, property owners’ association, or other similar provision, or may
be conveyed to governmental or not-for-profit organizations. Recordable
instruments providing for these common-ownership lands shall be submitted for
review with the application for development plan review.
   C.   Treatment of Planned Unit Development
Because the impervious surface ratio is calculated for the gross site, a
planned unit development may result in individual lots within a development
project exceeding the impervious surface ratio, while other lots may be devoted
entirely to open space. The Planning and Zoning Board may require, as a
condition of approval, deed restrictions or covenants that guarantee the
maintenance of such open space in perpetuity.
   D.   Reserved (Requirements for Areas with Central Sewer)
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.02.00   SIDEWALKS
   3.02.01   Sidewalk Regulations
   A.   When Required
      1.   Projects abutting collector or arterial facilities, encompassing the
entire block, shall provide sidewalks adjacent to the collector or arterial
roadway. Location of sidewalks shall be consistent with planned roadway
improvements.
      2.   Projects for which new roads are constructed shall provide sidewalks
adjacent to the roadway.
      3.   Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all residential streets
where the average lot width at the street is sixty (60) feet or less.
      4.   Sidewalks shall be provided on one (1) side of all residential
streets where the average lot width at the street is greater than sixty (60)
feet.
      5.   Residential projects adjacent to or in the immediate vicinity of an
activity center such as commercial, office, service, or recreation activities
shall provide pedestrian and bicycle access from the development to the
activity center.
      6.   Pedestrian-ways or crosswalks, not less than ten (10) feet wide with
a sidewalk meeting the requirements of this Code, may be required by the
Planning and Zoning Board to be placed in the center of blocks more than eight
hundred (800) feet long where deemed necessary to provide circulation or access
to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community
facilities.
      7.   Sidewalks shall be included in the plans for all new construction on
parcels located along Hwy. 98, 15th Street, and 7th Street which correspond
with the “City of Mexico Beach FDOT Sidewalk Master Plan” dated October 30th
2006. These sidewalks will parallel the route of those respective streets and
are in addition to any sidewalks required by other sections of the City of
Mexico Beach Land Development Codes.
      8.   Individuals applying for the installation of sidewalks on developed
property (i.e., where sidewalks will be the only new construction) will be
required to submit an “Application for a Sidewalk Permit” to the City of Mexico
Beach; there will be no charge or fee associated with this permit. The
requirements for permits from other agencies and the design and construction
standards established below will still apply.
   B.   Developments Exempted from Providing Sidewalks
      1.   All currently platted lots are exempt from the above requirements to
provide sidewalks.
      2.   New developments which do not encompass an entire block are exempt
from the above requirements to provide sidewalks.
   C.   Design and Construction Standards
Design and construction of sidewalks, bikeways, or other footpaths shall be
designed and constructed with pavers or commercial-grade, reinforced concrete
with a minimum width of six (6) feet and a minimum thickness of four (4)
inches. In all other regards, the construction shall be in compliance with the
standards in the Manual of Uniform Minimum Standards for Design, Construction
and Maintenance for Streets and Highways, published by the Florida Department
of Transportation.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.03.00   UTILITIES
   3.03.01   Requirements for All Developments
   A.   Generally
The following basic utilities are required for all developments subject to the
criteria listed herein.
   B.   Electricity
Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall have available to
it a source of electric power adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of
such use and every lot within such subdivision.
   C.   Telephone
Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall have available to
it a telephone service cable adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of
such use and every lot within such subdivision.
   D.   Water
Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be connected to
the City of Mexico Beach’s water system. Developers must provide water
distribution lines constructed to City standards as part of new developments.
   E.   Sewer
Every principle use and every lot within a subdivision shall have adequate
sewage treatment facilities provided at the level of service of two hundred
fifty (250) gallons per Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) per day or as
prescribed in Chapter 10D-6, F.A.C. (Package treatment plants for use in
planned unit developments (PUD) will be permitted and shall require a validated
contract for perpetual maintenance between the homeowners association, or its
equivalent, and a cesspool maintenance service.
   F.   Illumination
All streets, driveways, sidewalks, bikeways, parking lots, and other common
areas and facilities in developments shall provide illumination meeting the
standards of the Department of Community Affairs Technical Construction
Standards Manual.
   G.   Fire Hydrants
All developments served by a central water system shall include a system of
fire hydrants consistent with the standards of the Department of Community
Affairs Technical Construction Standards Manual.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.03.02   Design Standards
   A.   Compliance with Technical Construction Standards Manual
All utilities required by the Code shall meet or exceed the minimum standards
contained in the Department of Community Affairs Technical Construction
Standards Manual.
   B.   Placement of Utilities Underground.
      1.   All electric, telephone, cable television, and other communication
lines (exclusive of transformers or enclosures containing electrical equipment
including but not limited to, switches, meters, or capacitors which may be pad
mounted), and gas distribution lines shall be placed underground within
easements or dedicated public rights-of-way, installed in accordance with the
specifications of the Department of Community Affairs Technical Construction
Standards Manual.
      2.   Lots abutting existing easements or public rights-of-way where
overhead electric, telephone, or cable television distribution supply lines and
service connections have previously been installed may be supplied with such
services from the utilities’ overhead facilities provided the service
connection to the site or lot are placed underground.
      3.   Screening of any utility apparatus placed above ground shall be
required.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.03.03   Utility Easements
When a developer installs or causes the installation of water, sewer,
electrical power, telephone, or cable television facilities and intends that
such facilities shall be owned, operated, or maintained by a public utility or
any entity other than the developer, the developer shall transfer to such
utility or entity the necessary ownership or easement rights to enable the
utility or entity to operate and maintain such facilities.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.04.00   SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS
   3.04.01   Generally
Certain uses have unique characteristics that require the imposition of
development standards in addition to those minimum standards which may pertain
to the general group of uses encompassing the use. These uses are listed in
this part together with the specific standards that apply to the development
and use of land for the specified activity. These standards shall be met in
addition to all other standards of this Code, unless specifically exempted.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.04.02   Recreational Vehicle Parks
   A.   Intent
It is the intent in this section to provide standards for the location and
development of parks for recreation vehicles.
   B.   General Requirements
A recreational vehicle park shall meet the following general requirements:
      1.   It shall be primarily for recreational use by persons with
transportable recreational housing, with appropriate accessory uses and
structures.
      2.   The land on which it is developed shall be under unified control and
shall be planned and developed as a whole in a single development operation or
programmed series of development operations for recreational vehicles and
related uses and facilities. Subsequent subdivision of lots or conveyance of
sites to individual owners by any means is prohibited.
      3.   The principal and accessory uses and structures shall be
substantially related to the character of the development in the context of the
district of which it is a park.
      4.   The park shall be developed according to comprehensive and detailed
plans that include not only streets, utilities, lots, or building sites and the
like, but also site plans, floor plans, and elevations for all buildings as
intended to be located, constructed, used, and related to each other, and
detailed plans for other uses and improvements on the land as related to the
building.
      5.   The park shall have a program for provision, maintenance, and
operation of all areas, improvements, and facilities for the common use of all
or some of the occupants of the park, but will not be provided, operated, or
maintained at general public expense.
   C.   Allowable Uses
      1.   Recreational vehicles.
      2.   Park trailers (park models) as defined by Florida law, provided they
are placed in an area designated exclusively for that use on an approved final
site plan. Park models are not to be set up for more than one hundred eighty
(180) consecutive days, or for more than forty-five (45) consecutive days in
areas of special flood hazard unless elevated and anchored to comply with the
flood plain protection standards of this Code.
      3.   Convenience establishments for the sale or rental of supplies or for
provision of services, for the satisfaction of daily or frequent needs of
campers, within the park may be permitted. These establishments may provide
groceries, ice, sundries, bait, fishing equipment, self-service laundry
equipment, bottled gas, and other similar items needed by users of the park.
These establishments shall be designed to serve only the needs of the campers
within the park and shall not, including their parking areas, occupy more than
five percent (5%) of the area of the park, and shall not be so located as to
attract patronage from outside the grounds, nor have adverse effects on
surrounding land uses.
      4.   Marinas or launching ramps may be permitted where allowed in the
land use/zoning district, subject to either minimum requirements or
supplemental standards, within the district. Marinas or launching ramps shall
not include facilities for storage of boats other than those rented in
connection with the park operation. There shall be no facilities for the repair
or overhaul of boats.
   D.   Site Design Requirements
The following site design requirements shall be met:
      1.   The minimum land area for a recreational vehicle park shall be eight
(8) acres.
      2.   The maximum density for a recreational vehicle park shall be
eighteen (18) spaces per gross acre. Storage spaces shall be included in the
density calculation.
      3.   Individual spaces shall take access to internal streets and shall
not take direct access to adjoining public rights-of-way.
      4.   Access to the recreational vehicle park shall be from a collector or
arterial roadway.
      5.   Internal streets shall provide safe and convenient access to spaces
and appropriate park facilities. Alignment and gradient shall be properly
adapted to topography. Construction and maintenance shall provide a well-
drained and dust-free surface that is of adequate width to accommodate
anticipated traffic, and in any case, shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
            One-Way, No parking      12 Feet
            Two-Way, No Parking      20 Feet
      6.   Not less than eight percent (8%) of the area of the district shall
be devoted to recreation area. The recreation area may include space for common
walkways and related landscaping in block interiors, provide that the common
open space is at least twenty (20) feet in width as passive recreation space.
At least half of the total required recreation area shall be comprised of
facilities for active recreation, such as swimming pools or beaches, ball
fields, shuffleboard courts, or play lots for small children. These facilities
shall be so located as to be readily available from all spaces, and free from
traffic hazards.
      7.   Camping spaces shall be so located in relation to internal streets
as to provide for convenient vehicular ingress and egress if the space is
intended for use by wheeled units. Where back-in or back-out spaces are used,
appropriate maneuvering room shall be provided in the adjacent internal street
and within the space.
      8.   Where spaces are to be used exclusively for erection of tents on the
ground, provision for vehicular access onto such spaces shall not be required,
but parking areas shall be located within one hundred (100) feet, except in
circumstances in which providing such vehicular accessibility would result in
excessive destruction of trees or other vegetation, or where it would be
impractical to provide such parking areas within such distances for
particularly desirable campsites.
      9.   Spaces shall be so related to pedestrian ways and principal
destinations within the park as to provide for convenient pedestrian access to
such destinations by the pedestrian systems.
      10.   No minimum dimensions are specified for spaces, but each shall
provide a stand and the clearances and open spaces specified herein, and the
boundaries of each stand and space shall be clearly indicated.
      11.   Spaces for dependent units shall be located within two hundred
(200) feet by normal pedestrian routes of toilet, washroom, and bath
facilities.
      12.   Spaces for self-contained units, operating as such, may not be
located more than four hundred (400) feet by normal pedestrian routes from
toilet, washroom, and bath facilities.
      13.   Stands shall be so located that when used, clearance from units,
including attached awnings and the like, shall be as follows:
         a.   From units on adjoining stands                     10 feet
         b.   From internal streets of common parking area            10 feet
         c.   From portions of buildings not containing uses
            likely to disturb stand occupants, or constructed
            or oriented so that noise and lights will not be
            disturbing to occupants of space                      25 feet
         d.   From any other use or fueling facility                50 feet
      14.   Within each space, there shall be an area suitably located and
improved for outdoor use by occupants of units and not to be occupied by units
or towing vehicles except during maneuvering incidental to location or removal.
This space shall be at least eight (8) feet in minimum dimensions and one
hundred sixty (160) square feet in area in route parks, ten (10) feet in
minimum dimension and two hundred (200) square feet in area in destination
parks, and shall be so located as to be easily accessible from the entry side
of units as normally parked and oriented on stands.
      15.   Where fireplaces, cooking shelters, or similar facilities for open
fires or outdoor cooking are provided within spaces or elsewhere, they shall be
so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisance within the park and in adjoining areas.
      16.   Design and construction of improvements shall comply with standards
and specifications in the Appendices.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.04.03   Junkyards
   A.   Restrictions as to Location
No junkyard, junk, or automobile graveyard shall be kept, operated, or
maintained in Mexico Beach.
      1.   No more than one (1) unlicensed, inoperable motor vehicle shall be
permitted to be located on the private property of the owner or owners of said
unlicensed vehicles.
   B.   Implementation
The provision of this section shall apply to all junkyards, motor vehicle
graveyards, and locations where junk may be kept, accumulated, or maintained.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.04.04   Mobile Homes
   A.   Skirting
      1.   All mobile homes are required to be skirted upon initial set up
during the Development Order phase.
      2.   Skirting materials must be resistant to decay, corrosion, and
termite infestation.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.05.00   TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
   3.05.01   General Provisions
   A.   Purpose
This section establishes minimum requirements applicable to the development of
the transportation system, including public and private streets, bikeways, and
pedestrian ways. The standards in this Section are intended to minimize the
traffic impacts of development, to assure that all developments adequately and
safely provide for the storage and movement of vehicles consistent with good
engineering and development design practices.
   B.   Compliance with Technical Construction Standards Manual
All required elements of the transportation system shall be provided in
compliance with the engineering design and construction standards contained in
the Florida Department of Transportation Technical Construction Standards
Manual (the Green Book).
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.05.02   Streets
   A.   Street Classification System Established
      1.   Streets in the City are classified according to function served in
order to allow for regulation of access, road and right-of-way widths,
circulation patterns, design speed, and construction standards.
      2.   Private streets and streets that are to be dedicated to the City are
classified in a street hierarchy system with design tailored to function. The
street hierarchy system shall be defined by road function and average daily
traffic (ADT), calculated by trip generation rates prepared by the Institute of
Transportation Engineers. Trip generation rates from other sources may be used
if the developer demonstrates the alternative source better reflects local
conditions.
      3.   When a street continues an existing street that previously
terminated outside the subdivision, or is a street that will be continued
beyond the subdivision or development at some future time, the classification
of the street will be based upon the street in its entirety, both within and
outside of the subdivision or development.
      4.   The following streets hierarchy is established: residential,
collector, and arterial. Each street type is divided into subcategories. All
development proposals containing new streets or taking access from existing
streets shall conform to the standards and criteria contained in this Part.
   B.   Residential Streets
Residential streets are primarily suited to providing direct access to
residential development, but may give access to limited non-residential uses,
provided average daily traffic (ADT) volume generated by the non-residential
use does not exceed applicable standards for the affected streets. All
residential streets should be designed to minimize unnecessary and/or speeding
traffic. Each residential street shall be classified and designed for its
entire length to meet the minimum standards for one (1) of the following street
types.
      1.   Residential access street
   This is the lowest order street in the hierarchy. A residential access
street is a frontage street which provides direct access to abutting properties
and is designed to carry no more traffic than is generated on the street
itself. Residential access streets may take access from any higher order street
type. Both ends of a residential loop street must take access from a single
higher order street. The design speed for residential access streets is fifteen
(15) to twenty-five (25) miles per hour. Residential access streets shall have
a maximum ADT of five hundred (500). Cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum ADT of
two hundred (200). Loop streets shall have a maximum ADT of four hundred (400).
      2.   Residential sub-collector street
   This is the middle order street in the residential street hierarchy. It will
collect traffic from residential access streets and provide direct access to
abutting properties. Residential sub-collector streets shall have a design
speed of twenty-five (25) miles per hour. Residential sub-collector streets may
take access from any higher order street type and may give access to
residential access streets and may provide direct access to limited non-
residential uses. Loop streets carrying more than five hundred (500) ADT must
have two (2) intersections with higher order streets. Lots of less than forty
(40) feet in width may not take access from a residential sub-collector.
Residential subcollector streets shall have a maximum ADT of one thousand
(1,000).
      3.   Residential collector street
   This is the highest order street that can be classified as residential. In
larger developments, this class of street may be necessary to carry traffic
from one (1) neighborhood to another or from the neighborhood to streets
connecting to other areas in the community. It will collect traffic from
residential access and sub-collector streets and may provide direct access to
limited non-residential uses. Residential collector streets shall have a design
speed of thirty (30) miles per hour. No individual residential uses shall take
direct access from residential collector streets except where no feasible
alternative exists. All residential collector streets shall take access from at
least two (2) equal or higher order street types or give access to residential
access and subcollector streets. Residential collector streets shall have a
maximum ADT of two thousand (2,000).
   C.   Collector Roads
Collector roads provide access to non-residential uses and connect lower order
streets to arterial streets. Design speeds and average daily traffic volumes
will be higher than for lower order streets. There are three (3) types of
collector streets.
      1.   Minor Collector
   These are local collector streets giving direct access to commercial and
industrial uses and to residential projects, but not to individual dwelling
units. Minor collectors may take access from other collector streets, minor
arterials, or arterials. Minor collectors may give access to any residential
street type. Minor collectors shall have a design speed of thirty (30) miles
per hour. Minor collectors shall have a maximum ADT of three thousand (3,000).
      2.   Collector
   Collector roads may serve commercial and industrial uses as well as some
through traffic. Collector streets may take access from other collector
streets, major collectors, minor arterials, or arterials and may give access to
any lower order street. Collector streets shall have a design speed of thirty-
five (35) miles per hour. Collector streets shall have an ADT of no greater
than seven thousand (7,000) nor less than three thousand (3,000).
      3.   Major Collector
   These streets serve major community or regional facilities and carry through
traffic. Major collector streets may take access from other major collectors,
minor arterials, and arterials and may give access to any same or lower order
street type. Major collectors shall have a design speed of thirty-five (35)
miles per hour. Major collectors shall have a minimum ADT of seven thousand
(7,000). No parking is allowed on major collectors.
   D.   Arterial Roads
Arterial roads provide links between communities or to limited-access
expressways, limit direct access from abutting properties except for regionally
significant uses, and are designed for speeds up to fifty-five (55) miles per
hour. No parking is allowed on any arterials. There are two (2) types of
arterial roads.
      1.   Minor Arterial
   These roads link community districts to regional or state highways. They may
also give direct access to regionally significant land uses. These roads may
take access from other arterials or freeways and may give access to any lower
order non-residential street type. Minor arterials shall have a design speed of
forty-five (45) miles per hour.
      2.   Arterials
   These are major regional highways providing links between communities. These
roads may take access from other arterials or freeways and may give access to
any lower order non-residential street type. These roads shall have a design
speed of fifty-five (55) miles per hour.
   E.   Special Purpose Streets
Under special circumstances a new local street may be classified and designed
as one (1) of the following:
      1.   Alley
   An alley is a special type of street which provides a secondary means of
access to lots. It will normally be on the same level in the hierarchy as a
residential access street, although different design standards will apply.
      2.   Marginal Access Street
   A marginal access street is a street parallel and adjacent to a collector or
higher level street which provides access to abutting properties and separation
from through traffic. It may be designed at the level of a residential access
street or a residential sub-collector as anticipated traffic volumes will
dictate.
      3.   Divided Streets
   For the purpose of protecting environmental features or avoiding excessive
grading, the municipality may require that the street be divided. In such a
case, the design standards shall be applied to the aggregate dimensions of the
two (2) street segments.
   F.   Official Street Map
The Official Street Map and any amendments thereto, adopted by the City as a
part of the Comprehensive Plan, is hereby made a part of this Code. All
existing roadways within the jurisdiction of the City shall be designated on
the Official Street Map according to the foregoing classification scheme. Any
street abutting or affecting the design of a subdivision or land development
which is not already classified on the Official Street Map shall be classified
according to its function, design, and use by the City at the request of the
applicant or during plan review. The map shall be the basis for all decisions
regarding required road improvements, reservation or dedication of rights-of-
way for required road improvements, or access of proposed uses to existing or
proposed roadways.
   G.   Street Classification Standards
The following table, Table 3.05.02(A), specifies the number of lanes and
pavement and right-of-way widths for residential, collector, and arterial
streets. These requirements should be read in conjunction with the foregoing
street type descriptions.
                            PAVEMENT WIDTHS         ROW WIDTHS
STREET TYPE NUMBER OF LANES CURB & GUTTER NO CURB & CURB & GUTTER NO CURB &
                                          GUTTER                  GUTTER
                                PAVEMENT WIDTHS         ROW WIDTHS
STREET TYPE     NUMBER OF LANES CURB & GUTTER NO CURB & CURB & GUTTER NO CURB &
                                              GUTTER                  GUTTER
Residential Streets
                2 - 9' moving
                No Parking      18'           16'       50'           50'
                No Individual
                lot access
Residential     2- 9' moving
Access Streets  No Parking      18'           16'       50'           50'
               Individual lot
               access
(1) Cul-de-sac  2 - 10' moving
               No Parking      20'           18'       50'           50'
               Individual lot
(2) Loop Street access
                2 - 9' moving
                1 - 8' parking  26'           --        50'           --
                Individual lot
                access
                2 - 9' moving
                No parking      26'           --        50'           --
                No individual
                lot access
                2 - 9' moving
                No parking      18'           --        50'           --
                Individual lot
                access
                2 - 10' moving
                No Parking      20'           18'       50'           50'
Residential     No individual
Subcollector    lot access
Streets         2 - 10' moving
               No parking      20'           18'       50'           50'
               Individual lot
(1) Single      access
Access          2 - 9' moving
               1 - 8' parking  26'           --        50'           --
               Individual lot
(2) Loop Street access
                2 - 10' moving
                1 - 8' parking  28'           --        50'           --
                Individual lot
                access
                2 - 4' moving
                No parking      22'           --        50'           --
                Individual lot
                access
                2 - 11' moving  22'           20'       60'           60'
                No parking
Collector Streets
                2 - 11' moving
                1 - 8' parking  30'           --        60'           --
Minor Collector Undivided (no
Streets         median)
                2 - 11' moving
                2 - 8' parking  38'           --        60'           --
                Undivided
Minor Collector 2 - 11' moving
Streets         2 - 8' parking  44'           --        66'           --
                6' median strip
                2 -14' moving
                No parking      28'           28'       66'           66'
Collector       No median
Streets         2 - 12' moving
                No parking      30'           30'       70'           70'
                6' median
                4 - 12' moving
                No parking      48'           48'       80'           80'
Major Collector No median
Street          4 - 12' moving
                No parking      54'           54'       90'           90'
                6' median
Arterial Streets
                Normal road
                configuration
                2 - 14' moving  --            28'       --            80'
                No parking
Minor Arterial  No median
Streets         Approach to
               intersections
               2 - 12' moving  --            66'       --            100'
               2 - 12' turning                                     
               1 - 2' merging                                      
               6' median                                           
Arterial        Normal road     --            54'       --            100'
Streets         configuration                                       
                4 - 12' moving                                      
                No parking                                          
                6' median       --            78'       --            120'
                Approach to
                intersections
Arterial        4 - 12' moving
Streets         2 - 12' turning                                     
                6' median
 
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.05.03   Rights-of-Way
   A.   Rights-of-way Widths
Rights-of-way requirements for road construction shall be as specified in Table
3.05.02(A) of this Code. The right-of-way shall be measured from lot line to
lot line.
   B.   Future Rights-of-Way
Where roadway construction, improvement, or reconstruction is not required to
serve the needs of the proposed development project, future rights-of-way shall
nevertheless be reserved for future use. No part of the reserved area shall be
used to satisfy minimum requirements of this Code.
   C.   Protection and Use of Rights-of-Way
      1.   No encroachment shall be permitted into existing rights-of-way,
except for temporary use authorized by the City or the Florida Department of
Transportation.
      2.   Use of the right-of-way for public or private utilities, including,
but not limited to, sanitary sewer, potable water, telephone wires, cable
television wires, gas lines, or electricity transmission, shall be allowed
subject to Florida Department of Transportation utility placement regulations
(U.S. 98) and applicable City regulations.
      3.   Sidewalks and bicycle ways shall be placed within the right-of-way.
   D.   Abandonment of Rights-of-Way
Applications to abandon a right-of-way shall be approved upon a finding that
all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   The requested abandonment is consistent with the Transportation
Circulation Element of the City Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   The right-of-way does not provide the sole access to any property.
Remaining access shall not be by easement.
      3.   The abandonment would not jeopardize the current or future location
of any utility.
      4.   The proposed abandonment is not detrimental to the public interest
and provides a positive benefit to the City.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   3.05.04   Street Design Standards
   A.   General Design Standards
      1.   All streets in a new development shall be designed and constructed
pursuant to the standards in the Green Book. Streets shall be dedicated to the
City upon completion, inspection, and acceptance by the City.
      2.   The street system of the proposed development shall, to the extent
practicable, conform to the natural topography of the site, preserving existing
hydrological and vegetative patterns, and minimizing erosion potential, runoff,
and the need for site alteration. Particular effort should be directed toward
securing the flattest possible grade near intersections.
      3.   Streets shall be laid out to avoid environmentally sensitive areas.
      4.   Private streets may be allowed within developments that will remain
under common ownership, provided they are designed and constructed pursuant to
the standards in the Green Book and Florida Department of Transportation Specs
for Roads and Bridges current edition.
      5.   The street layout in all new development shall be coordinated with
and interconnected to the street system of the surrounding area.
      6.   Streets in proposed subdivision shall be connected to rights-of-way
in adjacent areas to allow for proper inter-neighborhood traffic flow. If
adjacent lands are unplatted, stub outs in the new development shall be
provided for future connection to the adjacent unplatted land.
      7.   Residential streets shall be arranged to discourage through traffic.
      8.   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and in
no case shall be less than seventy- five (75) degrees.
      9.   New intersections along one (1) side on an existing street shall,
where possible, coincide with existing intersections. Where an offset (jog) is
necessary at an intersection, the distance between centerlines of the
intersecting streets shall be no less than one hundred fifty (150) feet.
      10.   No two (2) streets may intersect with any other street on the same
side at a distance of less than four hundred (400) feet measured from
centerline to centerline of the intersecting street. When the intersected
street is an arterial, the distance between intersecting streets shall be no
less than one thousand (1,000) feet.
   B.   Paving Widths
Paving widths for the street classification shall be as provided in Table
3.03.02(A) of this Code.
   C.   Curbing requirement
      1.   Curbing shall be required for the purposes of safety, delineation
and protection of pavement edge along streets, and for drainage in the
following cases: where the surface drainage plan requires curbing to channel
stormwater.
      2.   All curbing shall conform to the construction standards contained in
the Florida Department of Transportation Specs for Roads and Bridges, current
addition.
   D.   Shoulders
Shoulders, where required, shall measure at least four (4) feet in width and
shall be required on the side of streets and shall be located within the right-
of-way. Shoulders shall consist of stabilized turf or other stabilizing
material. Shoulders and/or drainage swales are required as follows:
      1.   Shoulders are required on residential access and residential
subcollector streets only where necessary for stormwater management or road
stabilization.
      2.   All residential collector streets shall provide two (2) four (4)-
foot wide shoulders. Shoulders should be grass surfed except in circumstances
where grass cannot be expected to survive. In no case shall the shoulders be
paved.
      3.   Where shoulders are required by the Florida Department of
Transportation.
      4.   Collector streets where curbing is not required.
      5.   Arterial streets where curbing is not required.
   E.   Acceleration, Deceleration, and Turning Lanes.
      1.   Deceleration or turning lanes may be required by the City along
existing and proposed streets as determined by a traffic impact study where the
City can justify the need.
      2.   Deceleration lanes shall be designed to the following standards:
         a.   The lane width shall be the same as the required width of the
roadway moving lanes.
         b.   The lane shall provide the full required lane width for its full
length. It shall not be tapered.
         c.   The minimum lane length shall be as follows:
 
Design Speed of Road Minimum Deceleration Lane Length
30 mph               165 feet
40 mph               230 feet
50 mph               310 feet
 
      3.   Acceleration lanes are only required when indicated as needed by a
traffic impact study. Where needed, a paved taper shall be provided for right
hand turns.
   F.   Cul-de-sacs Turnarounds
      1.   An unobstructed twelve (12) foot wide moving lane with an outside
turning radius of thirty-eight (38) feet shall be provided at the terminus of
every permanent cul-de-sac.
      2.   No cul-de-sac shall exceed eight hundred (800) feet in length.
Right-of-way radius for cul-de-sac shall be fifty (50) feet.
   G.   Stub Streets
      1.   Residential access and subcollector stub streets may be permitted
only within subsections of a phased development for which the proposed street
in its entirety has received final site plan approval.
      2.   Residential collector and higher order stub streets may be permitted
or required by the City provided that the future extension of the street is
deemed desirable by the City.
      3.   Temporary turnarounds shall be provided for all stub streets
providing access to five (5) or more lots or housing units. Where four (4) or
fewer units or lots are being served, a sign indicating a dead-end street shall
be posted.
   H.   Clear Visibility Triangle
In order to provide a clear view of intersecting streets to the motorist, there
shall be a triangular area of clear visibility formed by two (2) intersecting
streets or the intersection of a driveway and a street. The following standards
shall be met:
      1.   Nothing shall be erected, pled, parked, planted, or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two (2)
feet and ten (10) feet above the grade, measured at the centerline of the
intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a14eb144d95ad9cad239d38b1781ec35a67f0637/
IMAGES/0-0-0-663.png]
      2.   The clear visibility triangle shall be formed by connecting a point
on the street center line, to be located at the distance from the intersection
of the street center lines indicated below, and a third line connecting the two
(2) points. See Figure 3.05.04 (H).
      3.   The distance from the intersection of the street center lines will
be determined by the Superintendent of the Road and Street Department, and the
Public Works Director in their absence, and based upon the individual and
unique conditions of each intersection and the adjacent properties.
   I.   Signage and Signalization
The developer shall provide all necessary roadway signs and traffic
signalization as may be required by the City, based upon City or State traffic
standards. At least two (2) street name signs shall be placed at the four-way
street intersection, and one (1) at the “T” intersection. Signs shall be
installed under light standards and free of visual obstruction. The design of
street name signs shall be consistent, of a style appropriate to the community,
and of a uniform size and color.
   J.   Street Trees
No development shall be approved without reserving an easement authorizing the
City to plant shade trees within five (5) feet of the required right-of-way
boundary. No street shall be accepted for dedication until the easement
required by this subsection has been provided.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.06.00   BUILDING NUMBERS
All buildings must provide numbers and have them displayed in a manner that is
visible from the road. The building numbers are to be displayed on the front
portion of the structure.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
3.07.00   SUBDIVISIONS, PLATTING, AND LOT SPLITS
Subdivision of property into three (3) or more parcels requires plat approval
by the City and recording of an approved plat or replat by the applicant in the
Bay County Official Records. This process consists of preliminary plat approval
and final plat approval. Once the City has approved a preliminary plat, the
applicant must secure a development order from the City prior to commencing
development of the property. A final plat must be approved by the City Council
prior to the sale of any subdivided property. The final plat must be formatted
appropriately for recording, be materially similar to the preliminary plat, and
conform to the requirements of F.S. Chapter 177.
A lot split that involves a parcel consisting of two (2) lots, as shown on a
validly recorded plat, being split back to the originally platted lots, without
any change to their boundaries, may be approved by the City Administrator so
long as the lot split would not result in either lot or the improvements
located on them being in violation of the City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive
Plan or Land Development Code. Other lot split applications shall be processed
as described below and may be approved by the City Council only. The City
Council may approve a lot split upon finding that it is in the best interest of
the City. Lot splits do not require recording of a formal replat.
All requests for a lot split, except as provided above, or subdivision of
platted or unplatted property must be presented to the Planning and Zoning
Board for recommendation and to the City Council of Mexico Beach for approval/
disapproval. These requests must be submitted to the City Administrator for
placement on the agendas
for these meetings; all applications and plat documents must be submitted to
allow adequate time for placement of required signs and written notifications
to adjacent property owners. To qualify for a lot split or plat approval, any
resulting lots must meet all the requirements of the City of Mexico Beach
Comprehensive Plan and Land Development Codes and must conform to the physical
characteristics of the neighborhood where located.
Lots created by lot split or subdivision of an existing lot in a platted or
unplatted residential area zoned "Residential - General" or "Residential - Low
Density" shall be no more than ten percent (10%) smaller than the median size
of all other lots located in the subdivision, on the same street, or
neighborhood, as originally platted in a recorded or unrecorded plat, and no
less than the minimum lot size sufficient to meet all development design
standards in this Code. If a subdivision was developed in phases, the median
size of lots shall be determined by the lots in the phase affected by the
proposed lot split or resubdivision.
No subdivision of property or lot split shall be platted or recorded for any
purpose, nor shall parcels or lots resulting from such subdivision or lot split
be sold or offered for sale unless such process and the resulting lots meet all
of the requirements of this Land Development Code, the Comprehensive Plan, and
other applicable regulations.
No final plat of any subdivision within Mexico Beach shall be filed or recorded
by the clerk of the circuit court of the county until it shall have received
subdivision approval under the applicable provisions of this chapter and
accepted by the Council. Evidence of such approval shall be placed on the plat
prior to recording.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 764, passed -13-2021)
3.08.00   LOT COMBINATIONS
The combinations of two (2) lots may be approved administratively by the City
Administrator. Lot combinations involving the combination of three (3) or more
lots shall instead be reviewed pursuant to the process for a lot split. A
survey will be required if any of the lots are described by metes and bounds.
Structures may not be constructed that would overlap the boundary of a lot or
violate any setback until a lot combination has been approved pursuant to this
Section. Accessory structures may not be installed on a parcel that does not
have a principal structure until a lot combination has been approved that
results in a principal structure being on the combined lot. City Council
approval is required to reverse a lot combination and shall be pursuant to the
same procedure and notices required for a lot split except as provided above
regarding a lot split that involves a parcel consisting of two (2) lots, as
shown on a validly recorded plat, being split back to the originally platted
lots without any change to their boundaries.
(Ord. 764, passed -13-2021)
ARTICLE IV
NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION
4.00.00   INTERGOVERNMENTAL FORUM PARTICIPATION
Mexico Beach shall cooperate with Bay County as part of any intergovernmental
forum that should be established by Bay County to protect vegetative
communities located within more than one (1) jurisdiction.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
4.01.00   LANDSCAPING
   4.01.01   Scope
Encourage a holistic approach to landscape development, site design, and
protection of environmentally sensitive lands by integrating existing
vegetation, native species, natural topography, and stormwater management
systems. Emphasis will be on preserving and maintaining existing vegetation to
provide buffers, wildlife habitat, and reduce the impact of urbanization.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.01.02   Intent
It is the intent of this article to establish minimum landscape development
requirements in both publicly and privately owned developed and redeveloped
land.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.01.03   Definitions
   Buffer Zone
A landscaped strip along parcel boundaries that serves as a buffer between
incompatible uses and zoning districts, as an attractive boundary of the parcel
or use, or as both a buffer and attractive boundary.
   Ground Cover
Low growing plants, other than deciduous varieties; natural mulch; rocks,
gravel, and sand installed to form a continuous cover over the ground.
   Interior Area
The entire parcel to be developed exclusive of the front, rear, and side
perimeter landscape areas.
   Landscape Material
Living material including trees, shrubs, vines, grass, ground cover; landscape
water features; and nonliving durable material commonly used in landscaping,
including rocks, pebbles, and sand.
   Landscaping
The placement of landscape material on a site in accordance with the
requirements of this article.
   Native Plants
Those plants, including communized plants, which are appropriate to the
ecological setting, have non-invasive growth habits, are tolerant of the hydric
conditions of the site, and require little maintenance upon maturity.
   Natural
Existing in and produced by nature, not artificially or occurring in the
ordinary course of nature.
   Planting Area
Any area designed for landscape material installation having a minimum area and
containing a suitable growing medium with proper drainage.
   Shrub
A woody perennial plant differing from a perennial herb by its persistent and
woody stems and from a tree by its low stature and habit of branching from the
base.
   Tree
Any self-supporting woody plant having at least one (1) well defined stem, a
minimum of two (2) inches DBH, and which normally grows to a minimum height of
eight (8) feet in the north Florida coastal area.
   Vehicular Use Area
Any ground surface area, except public rights-of-way, used by any type of
vehicle, whether moving or at rest, for such purposes as driving, parking,
loading, unloading, storage, or display, including car dealerships; activities
of a drive in nature in connection with banks, restaurants, filling stations,
grocery and dairy stores, and other vehicular uses under, on, or within
buildings.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.01.04   Application
The following requirements and standards apply to all development and
redevelopment in Mexico Beach, Florida. No development order may be issued on
any property unless and until the site plan conforms in every respect to the
requirements set forth in this article.
   A.   Minimum Standards
The design and installation of required landscaping shall be consistent with
the following minimum standards. Where an applicant can demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Planning and Zoning Board, that alternative design and
installation plans will exceed the objectives of this article, strict
application of the specific requirements for landscaping may be waived.
   B.   Submittal Criteria
All landscape drawings shall be drawn to scale, have a north arrow, have all
buildings, pavement, onsite stormwater management facilities and utilities
accurately depicted. The landscape drawing or accompanying site plan must give
the land use type of adjacent parcels and the total square footage of all
pavement. A plant schedule shall be provided showing the name, size, spacing,
and number of all required plant materials. Any plant on the approved list of
plants may be substituted for the identified plant, provided that the plant be
adapted to the amount of sun/shade, wet/dry, and size conditions where it will
be planted. Plant materials shown in addition to the required elements of the
landscape plan must be labeled as optional and shall not be subject to
inspection.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.01.06   Required Landscaping
   A.   Landscape Area Requirements
      1.   A minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the total developed area
shall be devoted to landscaping. Landscaping can be concentrated in the
building setback areas, which is also the primary tree protection area.
However, a minimum of five percent (5%) of the landscaped area shall be located
within the interior of the site.
      2.   All development activity shall seek to preserve natural areas. These
areas can be used to fulfill the landscape requirements provided they meet one
(1) of the following criteria:
         a.   Protects the beaches and dunes;
         b.   Encompasses tree clusters;
         c.   Is located so as to protect downhill sides of slopes;
         d.   Constitutes a perimeter buffer;
         e.   Encompasses all onsite environmental constraints.
   B.   Vehicle Use Areas
      1.   Perimeter Landscape Area Requirements:
         a.   Front Perimeter Landscape Area. A ten (10) foot wide strip of
land along the entire front perimeter of a site, located between the front
property line and any vehicular use area, shall be landscaped. Width of
sidewalks shall not be included within the ten (10) foot wide front perimeter
landscape area.
         b.   Side and Rear Perimeter Landscape Areas. A six (6) foot wide
strip of land along the entire side and rear perimeter of a site, located
between the side and rear property lines and any vehicular use area, shall be
landscaped, except where a permitted entrance or access way is located.
         c.   Adjacent Properties. Adjacent property owners may agree to only
one (1) landscape barrier as long as it meets the requirements and standards of
the landscape code.
      2.   Interior Landscape Area Requirements:
         a.   Interior planting areas shall be located to most effectively
relieve the monotony of large expanses of paving and contribute to orderly
circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
         b.   Interior Landscape Areas shall have a minimum size of one hundred
forty (140) square feet.
   C.   Buffer Zones
      1.   A buffer zone is a landscaped strip along parcel boundaries that
serves as a buffer between incompatible uses and zoning districts, as an
attractive boundary of the parcel or use, or as both a buffer and attractive
boundary. Buffers are required in between incompatible uses as defined in Table
4.01.06, below. This shall not be interpreted to mean that parcels within a
planned mixed use development must meet these requirements.
      2.   Width: A buffer strip of at least ten (10) feet in width along the
property line is required where such conflict exists.
      3.   Height: The buffer shall contain a wall, fence, or hedge to a height
of at least six (6) feet providing a visual screen.
      4.   The use of existing native vegetation in buffer zones is preferred.
If a developer proposes to landscape a buffer zone with existing native
vegetation, the Planning and Zoning Board may allow a variance from the strict
planting requirements of this section if:
         a.   The variance is necessary to prevent harm to the existing native
vegetation; and
         b.   The buffering and/or aesthetic purposes of the buffer zone are
substantially fulfilled despite the variance.
      5.   The buffer zone counts towards the twenty-five percent (25%)
required landscaping.
   4.01.06 Table of Incompatible Adjacent Districts
Zoning District RLD RG HDR GC TC P/I R I P TMU
Zoning District          RLD RG HDR GC TC P/I R  I P  TMU
Residential Low Density  --  C  C   I  I  C   C  I C  I
Residential General      C   -- C   I  I  C   C  I C  I
High Density Residential C   C  --  I  I  C   C  I C  I
General Commercial       I   I  I   -- I  I   I  I I  I
Tourist Commercial       I   I  I   I  -- I   I  I I  I
Public/Institutional     C   C  C   I  I  --  C  I C  C
Recreation               C   C  C   I  I  C   -- I C  C
Preservation             C   C  C   I  I  C   C  I -- I
Tourist Mixed Use        C   C  C   I  I  C   C  I I  --
 
   Notes for Table 4.01.06
“C” stands for “Compatible.” “I” stands for “Incompatible.” Two (2) parcels of
different zoning districts that are specified in this section as “incompatible”
require a buffer along the parcel boundaries. This includes incompatible Zoning
Districts that are separated by a road.
   D.   Use of Required Areas
No accessory structures, garbage or trash collection points or receptacles,
parking, or any other functional use contrary to the intent and purpose of this
Code shall be permitted in a required landscape area. This does not prohibit
the combining of compatible functions such as landscaping and stormwater
drainage facilities.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.01.07   Landscape Design and Materials
   A.   Design Principles
All landscaped areas required by this Code should conform to the following
general design principles:
      1.   Landscaping should integrate the proposed development into existing
site features through consideration of existing topography, hydrology, soils,
and vegetation.
      2.   The functional elements of the development plan, particularly the
drainage systems and internal circulation systems for vehicles and pedestrians,
should be integrated into the landscaping plan.
      3.   Landscaping should be used to minimize potential erosion through the
use of ground covers or any other type of landscape material that aids in soil
stabilization.
      4.   Existing native vegetation should be preserved and used to meet
landscaping requirements.
      5.   Landscaping should enhance the visual environment through the use of
materials that achieve variety with respect to seasonal changes, species of
living material selected, textures, colors, and size at maturity.
      6.   Landscaping design should consider the aesthetic and functional
aspects of vegetation, both when initially installed and when the vegetation
has reached maturity.
      7.   Landscaping should enhance public safety and minimize nuisances.
      8.   Landscaping should be used to provide windbreaks, channel wind, and
increase ventilation.
      9.   The selection and placement of landscaping materials should consider
the effect on utilities such as power lines.
   B.   Installation of Plants
      1.   All plants shall be healthy and free of diseases and pests and shall
be selected from the list of approved species.
      2.   Plants shall be installed during the period of the year most
appropriate for planting the particular species. If compliance with this
requires that some or all of the landscaping be planted at a time after the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the developer shall post a performance
bond sufficient to pay the costs of the required, but not yet installed,
landscaping before the certificate shall be issued.
      3.   Landscaping shall be protected from vehicular and pedestrian
encroachment by means of raised planting surfaces, depressed walks, curbs,
edges, and the like.
      4.   The landscaping shall not interfere, at or before maturity, with
power, cable television or telephone lines, sewer or water pipes, or any other
existing or proposed overhead or underground utility service.
      5.   All plants shall be installed according to standards adopted by the
Planning and Zoning Board.
      6.   The developer shall provide sufficient soil and water to sustain
healthy growth of all plants.
      7.   To provide visibility and safety, no landscape materials except
grasses and groundcovers shall be located closer than three (3) feet to an
access way; and no landscape materials shall exist within the heights of two
(2) and six (6) feet above ground level, including limbs and foliage of trees
and shrubs planted outside but extending into the sight triangle.
   C.   Use of Native Plants
Forty percent (40%) of the total number of individual plants selected from each
of the categories of the list of approved species below (tree, shrub, and
groundcover) and used to satisfy the requirements of this Code shall be
selected from the list of native species in the category.
   D.   Planting Requirements
      1.   Trees
   A ratio of one (1) tree for every fifty (50) linear feet of boundary is
required. Trees shall have a minimum overall height of ten (10) to twelve (12)
feet at time of planting. These trees should be concentrated in the perimeter
landscape areas. This provision is not intended to require trees to be equally
spaced. Creative design and spacing is encouraged. However, the plants shall be
spread along the length of the buffer. Native species that need less water and
maintenance are preferred.
      2.   Shrubs
   Shrubs shall have a minimum height of eighteen (18) inches and a minimum
spread of fifteen (15) inches at the time of planting. Shrubs spacing shall not
exceed five (5) feet on center, nor shall plants be closer than two (2) feet to
the edge of any pavement.
      3.   Ground Cover
   Ground Cover shall be placed within all interior vehicle use landscape
areas, and within all perimeter landscape areas not occupied by other landscape
material or permitted access ways. Ground cover shall not exceed eight (8)
inches in height.
   E.   Non-Living Materials
      1.   Mulches shall be a minimum depth of two (2) inches and plastic
surface covers shall not be used.
      2.   Rocks, gravel, sand, or other natural material commonly used in
landscaping are acceptable.
      3.   Areas using artificial plant material do not meet landscaping
requirements.
   F.   Maintenance and Replacement of Plants
      1.   All required plants shall be maintained in a healthy, pest-free
condition.
      2.   If a plant is dead, or severely damaged, or diseased within one (1)
year of planting, the plant shall be replaced by the developer. The replacement
plants shall be similar in size to the healthy plants of the same species at
the time of replanting. If there are no healthy plants of that species, then
the replacement plants will be the equivalent size of one (1) year old plants.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
4.02.00   TREE PROTECTION
   4.02.01   Statement of Intent
The intent of this article is to perpetuate selected native tree species of
Mexico Beach by requiring their on-site preservation. This article does not
intend to deny reasonable use of private property, nor is it intended to delay
or disrupt the development process; its purpose is to foster development
responsive to, and protective of, local natural landscapes. The preservation of
native trees and shrubbery will provide community-wide aesthetic benefits and
indirect monetary worth by enhancing property values.
In a coastal environment, infertile soils and excessive salt mist limit tree
and vegetation types to those species tolerant of harsh growing conditions. The
conditions mentioned above diminish growth even among species adapted to a
coastal environment. This creates extreme time lags between the implementation
of landscape designs relying on replanting and the actual intended aesthetic
affect of these designs. For this reason, preservation of existing trees is
desired over replacement of removed trees; developers are urged to go beyond
the minimum requirements of this Code in incorporating existing native
vegetation into site design.
The following paragraphs define those trees protected from removal during
development and levels of protection and replacement schedules for those
protected trees removed in the course of development. A developer should apply
the provisions of this Article to a proposed development site before any other
development design work is done. Application of the provisions of this Article
will divide a proposed development site into areas that may be developed and
areas that must generally be left free of development activity. The proposed
development should thus be designed to fit within the areas that may be
developed.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.02   Definitions
   Crown
The main mass of branching of a tree or shrub above the ground.
   DBH
Diameter at breast height. “Breast height” is defined to be fifty-four (54)
inches above the surface of the ground at the base of the plant or tree. In the
case of a tree with multiple main stems, the diameter shall be the sum of the
diameters of the stems.
   Desired Replacement Tree List
A listing of trees and shrubs native to coastal Panhandle Florida and desired
for replanting in the area.
   Drip Line
The outermost perimeter of the crown of a tree projected vertically to the
ground.
   General Replacement Tree List
A listing of salt tolerant tree and shrub species suitable for the Mexico Beach
environment. This list includes non-native species. The General Tree
Replacement List is intended to assist in the selection of trees for
replacement and does not restrict those tasked with tree replacement to species
appearing on the list.
   Hardwood
Broad-leaved, flowering tree such as oak or hickory.
   Oak Thicket
A dense association of shrubby oaks, the crowns of which have intertwined to
form a canopy. This canopy displays the distinctive sculpted appearance caused
by salt pruning.
   Primary Tree Protection Area
An area equal in size to the zoning setbacks measured from the perimeter of the
lot or parcel towards the interior. The area offers the highest degree of tree
protection.
   Protected Tree
A tree which the community desires to protect during all phases of site
development. Any tree so designated must, upon removal or damage during the
course of development, be replaced at a specified ratio at developer expense.
For the purpose of this Code, all shrubby oaks are hereby declared protected
trees.
   Replacement Tree
An approved tree species of at least one (1) inch DBH and four (4) feet in
height, planted at developer expense towards replacement of protected trees
removed or damaged in the course of development. (See Replacement Tree lists.)
   Remove
To relocate, cut down, damage, poison, or in any other manner destroy, or cause
to be destroyed, a tree.
   Secondary Tree Protection Area
That interior portion of a lot or parcel exclusive of the Structure Footprint
and the Primary Tree Protection Area.
   Shrub
A woody plant of relatively low height distinguished from a tree by having
several stems rather than a single trunk.
   Shrubby Oaks
Rooted trees and seedlings of the following species:
         Quercus geminata (Live Oak)
         Quercus myrtifolia (Myrtle Oak)
         Quercus chapmanii (Chapman’s Oak)
   Softwood
A coniferous (cone-bearing) tree, usually evergreen, for example, a pine.
   Structure Footprint
That area within a parcel or lot taken up by the extent of a structure plus an
additional ten (10) feet. “Extent” shall include roof overhangs or other
enclosed structure based on the dwelling foundation. This area shall also
include the driveway. This area is offered the least amount of tree protection.
   Tree Protection Zone
A circular zone around each protected tree defined as follows:
      a.   If the drip line is less than six (6) feet from the trunk of the
tree, the zone shall be that area within a radius of six (6) feet around the
tree.
      b.   If the drip line is more than six (6) feet from the trunk of the
tree, the zone shall be that area within the radius of the full drip line
around the tree up to a maximum radius of twenty (20) feet.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.03   Regulations
The following regulations for the protection of selected trees apply during all
phases of new site development and to post-development tree removal. Single
family residences are not exempted from these regulations. These regulations
shall also apply to reconstruction on a lot or parcel.
   A.   Primary Tree Protection Area Requirements
      1.   Within the Primary Tree Protection area:
         a.   All hardwood trees with a four (4) inch DBH or greater are
protected trees.
         b.   All softwood trees with an eight (8) inch DBH or greater are
protected trees.
      2.   All designated protected trees shall be safeguarded from damage or
destruction during all phases of the development process by adoption of
suitable protection measures (see paragraph 6 below). This protection shall
extend outward to the limits of the defined drip zone.
      3.   All protected trees removed from the Primary Tree Protection Area
shall be replaced at developer expense at the following ratios:
         a.   For every one (1) inch DBH of protected tree removed in the
Primary Tree Protection Area, two (2) inches DBH of replacement tree shall be
planted. These trees may be from those listed on the General Replacement Tree
List.
   or
         b.   For every inch DBH of protected tree removed from the Primary
Tree Protection Area, 1.5 inches DBH shall be planted from tree species listed
on the Desired Replacement Tree List.
      4.   Replacement trees not surviving one (1) year from planting must be
replaced at developer expense.
      5.   That portion of the Primary Tree Protection Area required for the
driveway is exempt from the preceding regulations and shall be regarded as part
of the Structure Footprint.
      6.   Replacement trees necessitated by the removal of protected trees may
be replanted in either the Secondary Tree Protection Zone or in available space
in the Structure Footprint.
   B.   Secondary Tree Protection Area Requirements:
      1.   Within the Secondary Tree Protection Area all hardwoods with a four
(4) inch or greater DBH are designated protected trees.
      2.   All designated protected trees shall be safeguarded from damage or
destruction during all phases of the development process by adoption of
suitable protection measures (see paragraph F below). This protection shall
extend outward to the limits of the defined drip zone.
      3.   All protected trees removed from the Secondary Tree Protection Area
shall be replaced at developer expense at the following ratio: For every one
(1) inch DBH of protected tree removed in the Secondary Tree Protection Area,
one (1) inch DBH of replacement tree shall be planted. Replacement trees for
the Secondary Tree Protection area may, but need not, be selected from those
listed on either the General or Desired Replacement Tree List.
      4.   Replacement trees not surviving one (1) year from planting must be
replaced at developer expense.
      5.   That portion of the Secondary Tree Protection Area required for the
driveway is exempt from the preceding regulations and shall be regarded as part
of the Structure Footprint.
      6.   Replacement trees necessitated by the removal of protected trees may
be replanted in either the Primary Tree Protection Zone or in available space
in the Structure Footprint.
   C.   Structure Footprint Protection Requirements:
      1.   Within the Structure Footprint, all trees with a fifteen (15) inch
or greater DBH are designated protected trees.
      2.   The replacement of protected trees necessitated by the placement of
the Structure Footprint shall be at the following ratio:
         a.   For every one (1) inch of DBH of protected tree removed in the
Structure Footprint, one (1) inch DBH of replacement tree shall be planted in
the Primary or Secondary Tree Protection Area, or available space within the
Structure Footprint. These trees may, but need not, be selected from among
those listed on the General Replacement Tree List.
   or
         b.   For every one (1) inch DBH of protected tree removed in the
Structure Footprint, one-half (.5) inch DBH of replacement tree shall be
planted in the Primary or Secondary Tree Protection Area, or available space
within the Structure Footprint, from trees listed on the Desired Replacement
Tree List.
      3.   The maximum number of Replacement Tree inches required in the
Structure Footprint shall not exceed fifty (50) inches DBH for trees not
selected from the Desired Replacement Tree List, or twenty-five (25) inches DBH
for trees selected from the Desired Replacement Tree List, regardless of the
number of protected tree inches removed.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.04   Special Provisions for the Protection of Oak Thickets
   A.   Within the Primary and Secondary Tree Protection Areas, oak thickets
(see definition) shall be regarded as protected trees regardless of the DBH of
individual oaks within the thicket. The appropriate replacement ratios apply.
Where no determination can be made of DBH of trees comprising the oak thicket,
a one (1) inch DBH shall be assumed.
   B.   Every attempt should be made to preserve oak thickets in their entirety
by incorporating them into site landscape design.
   C.   Should removal of part of the thicket be necessary, every effort shall
be made to preserve the most seaward edge of the thicket running parallel (or
nearly parallel) to the Gulf of Mexico. This leading edge provides protection
to the interior portions of the thicket by intercepting the bulk of salt mist
and spray. Removal of this edge invites damage to the thicket interior by
exposing it to increased amounts of airborne salt.
   D.   Preservation of oak thickets can account for all or part of the
required twenty-five percent (25%) on-site native vegetation protection total
(see Landscape Protection Regulations).
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.05   Exemptions
The preceding Tree Protection Requirements do not apply to:
   A.   The removal of a tree planted and grown in the ordinary course of
business of a lawful plant or tree nursery.
   B.   The removal of any tree during or following an act of nature, when the
director determines that Tree Protection Review requirements will hamper
efforts to return the community to normal functioning.
   C.   The removal of a tree which is determined to be so damaged or diseased
as to pose a public health risk.
   D.   The removal of trees for utility operations, provided that removal is
confined to those areas necessary for either the maintenance of existing
facilities, or for construction of new facilities.
   E.   The removal of trees and shrubs by licensed surveyors in the course of
their work. Surveyors shall be limited to no more than a three (3) foot swath.
   F.   The removal of trees for thinning purposes where it is evident that an
overabundance of trees is causing the property owner an obvious nuisance, or
renders a strong possibility of property damage to the structures, or the trees
in question far outnumber the minimum tree requirements set forth in this
regulation. This provision does not apply to land developers for resale
purposes.
   G.   The softwood coniferous (cone-bearing) tree known as the specie pine is
exempted from tree protection requirements within this article.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.06   Physical Protection of Protected Trees during Development
   A.   To assure the health and survival of protected trees that are not to be
removed, the developer shall avoid the following kinds of tree injuries during
all development activities:
      1.   Mechanical injuries to roots, trunks, and branches.
      2.   Injuries by chemical poisoning.
      3.   Injuries by grade changes.
      4.   Injuries by excavations.
      5.   Injuries by paving.
   B.   Paragraph 4.02.06A.1.-5. shall be accomplished by the erection of
barriers around the entire Tree Protection Zone (see definition) prior to the
commencement of development. The barrier shall be constructed as follows:
      1.   Wooden or similar posts, at least 1.5 X 3.5 inches, shall be
implanted in the ground deep enough to be stable, and with at least three (3)
feet above the ground.
      2.   The protective posts shall not be placed more than six (6) feet
apart, and shall be linked together by rope or chain.
   C.   In lieu of constructing barriers around large areas containing
protected trees, the developer may place stakes a maximum of ten (10) feet
apart around the perimeter of the Tree Protection Zone. The stakes will then be
connected with ribbon, flagging, or plastic tape.
   D.   All development activities except for those specifically permitted in
this article are prohibited within the Tree Protection Zone. All temporary
construction activities shall also be prohibited within the Tree Protection
Zone, including digging, storage of construction material, and parking of
construction vehicles.
   E.   The following development activities are permitted in the Tree
Protection Zone:
      1.   The tunneling of utility lines beneath tree roots shall be permitted
to avoid trenching.
      2.   The placement of sodding and other natural ground covers, and the
preparation of the ground surface for such covers.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.07   Review Procedures
   A.   For Site Development:
The Planning and Zoning Board shall review all site plans for compliance with
the preceding Tree Protection Regulations.
      1.   For submission to the Planning and Zoning Board, the developer will
denote on site plans:
         a.   The Primary Tree Protection Area.
         b.   The Secondary Tree Protection Area.
         c.   The Structure Footprint Area.
         d.   The location of tree protection zones, as indicated by barriers.
      2.   The developer will provide an estimate of total inches of protected
trees removed from each Protection Area. From this estimate, the number of
replacement trees will be determined.
   B.   For Post-Development Tree Removal:
      1.   The property owner or the owner’s appointed agent will make timely
application to the City Council for removal of trees on the applicants’
property protected by the tenets of this regulation.
      2.   For each protected tree to be removed, a Tree Removal Permit shall
be issued.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.08   Hardship Procedures
All development activities anticipated not to be in compliance with the Tree
and Landscape Regulations shall apply for variance from these regulations to
the Planning and Zoning Board in accordance with Section
7.04.00.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.09   Desired Replacement Tree List
The following tree and shrub species are native to Mexico Beach and its
environs and so are best adapted to local growing conditions when matched to
specific habitat requirements. These species, when available are desired for
replanting:
Common Name Latin Name Habitat
Common Name   Latin Name           Habitat
Cabbage Palm  Sabal Palmetto       Wet areas with calcerous soil
Chapman’s OaQuercus Chapmanii    Dry, sandy soil
Live Oak      Quercus Virginiana   Damp or dry, sandy soil
Magnolia      Magnolia Grandiflora Damp or dry, sandy soil
Sand Live Oak Quercus Geminata     Dry, sandy soil
Sand Pine     Pinus Clausa         Dry, sandy soil in elevated areas
Slash Pine    Pinus Elliotii       Wet areas with acid, sandy soil
Wild Olive    Osmanthus Americanus Damp to dry, sandy soil
Myrtle Oak*   Quercus Myrtifolia   Dry, sandy soil
Wax Myrtle*   Myrica Cerifera      Wet to dry, sandy soil
Yaupon*       Ilex Vomitora        Damp to dry, sandy soil
* by definition a shrub rather than a tree
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.02.10   General Replacement Tree List
The following tree and shrub species which, though non-native to the area
around Mexico Beach, are tolerant of local soil and climatic conditions. This
list is intended for guidance only and does not restrict those tasked with tree
replacement to this list.
Common Name Latin Name Freeze Damage
Common Name        Latin Name             Freeze Damage
Century Plant      Aqave Americana        22 deg.
Bottle Brush       Callistemon spp.       26 deg.
Japanese Plum      Eriobata Japonica      Hardy
Shore Juniper      Juniperus Conferta     Hardy
Wax Leaf Ligustrum Ligustrum Japonica     Hardy
Oleander*          Nerium Oleander        26 deg.
Jerusalem Thorn    Parkinsonia Aculeata   Hardy
Senegal Date Palm  Phoenix Reclinata      24 deg.
Pittosporum*       Pittosporum Tobira     Hardy
Japanese Yew       Podocarpus Macrophylla Hardy
False Lavender*    Vitex Agnus-Castus     Hardy
* by definition a shrub rather than a tree
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
4.03.00   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE LANDS AND OTHER PROTECTED NATURAL RESOURCES
   4.03.01   Purpose and Scope
The purpose of this Article is to establish environmentally sensitive lands and
other resources that must be protected from harmful effects of development. A
developer should apply the provisions of this Section to a proposed development
site before any other development design work is done. Application of the
provisions of this Section will divide a proposed development site into areas
that may be developed and areas that must generally be left free of development
activity. The proposed development should then be designed to fit within the
areas that may be developed.
Scope: Designated Environmentally Sensitive Lands and other Protected Natural
Resources. This section incorporates regulations designed to protect
Environmentally Sensitive Lands, which are designated in Policy 6.2.1 of the
City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan, and other natural resources in need of
protection. Environmentally sensitive lands are considered to be jurisdictional
wetlands, surface waters, and beaches and dunes. Other protected natural
resources are considered to be canal shoreline, wildlife habitat, and marine
habitat.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.02   General Provisions
   A.   Relationship to other Requirements Relating to the Protection of
Environmentally Sensitive Lands
In addition to meeting the following protection of environmentally sensitive
lands and other protected natural resources requirements, development plans
shall comply with applicable federal, state, water management district, county,
and local regulations relating to these lands. In all cases the strictest of
the applicable standards shall apply.
   B.   Compliance when Subdividing Land
Each lot of a proposed subdivision must include a site suitable for
constructing a structure in conformity with the standards of these regulations.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.03   Definitions
   Adverse Effects
Any modifications, alterations, or effects on waters, associated wetlands, or
shorelands, including their quality, quantity, hydrology, surface area, species
composition, or usefulness for human or natural uses which are or may
potentially be harmful or injurious to human health, welfare, safety or
property, to biological productivity, diversity, or stability or which
unreasonably interfere with the reasonable use of property, including outdoor
recreation. The term includes secondary and cumulative as well as direct
impacts.
   Beneficial Functions of a Protected Environmentally Sensitive Area
Those functions, described in the Conservation Element of the Comprehensive
Plan, that justify designating an area as environmentally sensitive.
   Clearing
The removal of trees and brush from the land, not including the ordinary mowing
of grass.
   Direct Hydrologic Connection
A surface water connection which, under normal hydrological conditions, occurs
on an average of thirty (30) or more consecutive days per year. In the absence
of reliable hydrologic records, a continuum of wetlands may be used to
establish a direct hydrologic connection.
   Pollutant
Any substance, contaminant, noise, or manmade or man-induced alteration of the
chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of air or water in
quantities or at levels which are or may be potentially harmful or injurious to
human health or welfare, animal or plant life, or property, or which
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property, including
outdoor recreation.
   Significant Adverse Effect
Any modification alteration, or effect upon a Protected Environmentally
Sensitive Area which measurably reduces the Area’s beneficial functions as
delineated in the Conservation Element of the City of Mexico Beach
Comprehensive Plan.
   Water or Waters
Includes, but is not limited to, water on or beneath the surface of the ground
or in the atmosphere, including natural or artificial watercourses, streams,
rivers, lakes, ponds, or diffused surface water and water percolating,
standing, or flowing beneath the surface of the ground.
   Water Body
Any natural or artificial pond, lake, reservoir, or other area with a
discernible shoreline which ordinarily or intermittently contains water.
   Watercourse
Any natural or artificial channel, ditch, canal, stream, river, creek,
waterway, or wetland through which water flows in a definite direction, either
continuously or intermittently, and which has a definite channel, bed, banks,
or other discernible boundary.
   Water’s Edge and Wetland’s Edge
The water’s or wetland’s edge shall be determined by whichever of the following
indices yields the most landward extent of waters or wetlands:
      1)   the boundary established by the average annual high water mark
      2)   the landward boundary of hydric soils, or
      3)   the landward boundary of wetland vegetation, based on the wetland
vegetation index.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.04   Creation of Protected Environmentally Sensitive Zones
   A.   Wetlands Protection Zone
      1.   There is hereby created a “Wetlands Protection Zone” in which
special restrictions on development apply.
      2.   The boundaries of this zone shall be the most landward extent of the
following:
         a.   Areas within the dredge and fill jurisdiction of the Department
of Environmental Regulation as authorized by F.S. Chapter 403.
         b.   Areas within the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
as authorized by Section 404, Clean Water Act or Section 10, River and Harbor
Act.
      3.   Determination of wetlands boundaries by the Department of
Environmental Regulation or the Army Corp of Engineers must be made prior to
development approval for all areas identified as “Potential For Wetlands” on
the Future Land Use Map of the Comprehensive Plan. If the determination for a
proposed development site has not been made, the determination process will be
initiated by the developer.
   B.   Canal Shoreline Protection Zone
      1.   There is hereby created the “Canal Shoreline Protection Zone” in
which special restrictions on development apply.
      2.   The Canal Shoreline Protection Zone extends from the point in waters
where no emergent aquatic vegetation can grow landward, to a point fifteen (15)
feet landward of the water’s edge. No development or construction activity
shall occur in this zone, however, construction of bulkheads, seawalls, dock
facilities, or other water related structures is not prohibited provided all
appropriate State and local permits are obtained prior to construction. Natural
shoreline vegetation shall be preserved for twenty (20) feet landward from the
mean high tide line. Cleared corridors fifteen (15) feet in width or less which
provide access to water will be allowed at a frequency of every one hundred
(100) feet of frontage along the water’s edge or one (1) corridor per lot,
whichever is more stringent. In addition, only two (2) twelve (12) foot wide,
covered boat slips will be permissible per single family residential lot.
   C.   Beach and Dune Protection Zone
      1.   There is hereby created the “Beach and Dune Protection Zone” in
which special restrictions on development apply.
      2.   The Beach and Dune Protection Zone boundaries encompass beaches and
dunes designated “Preservation” on the Future Land Use Map of the Comprehensive
Plan. The “Preservation” designation encompasses lands south of U.S. 98 between
8th Street and the eastern City limit and lands seaward of the Coastal
Construction Control Line (CCCL). The City shall redefine its “Preservation”
designation upon any change to the boundaries of the CCCL.
   D.   Wildlife Habitat Protection Zone
      1.   There is hereby created the “Wildlife Habitat Protection Zone” in
which special restrictions on development apply.
      2.   The boundaries of this zone are those lands which are inhabited by
species listed as endangered or threatened, as specified in the “Official Lists
of Endangered Fauna and Flora in Florida”, published by the Florida Game and
Fresh Water Fish Commission.
   E.   Request for Determination of Boundaries
A developer may obtain a determination of the boundaries of a Protected
Environmentally Sensitive Zone or Other Protected Natural Resource by
submitting a request to the department with jurisdiction over the land in
question. The request must, as a minimum, set forth an adequate description of
the land the developer wishes to develop, the nature of the developer’s right
to ownership or control of the land, and other information needed to make the
determination.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.05   Development Activities within Protected Environmentally Sensitive
Zones
   A.   Generally
Except as expressly provided herein, no development activity shall be
undertaken in a Protected Environmentally Sensitive Zone.
   B.   Activities Presumed to have an Insignificant Adverse Effect on
Protected Environmentally Sensitive Zones
      1.   Certain activities are presumed to have an insignificant adverse
effect on the beneficial functions of Protected Environmentally Sensitive
Zones. Notwithstanding the prohibition in Section
4.03.05A. of this Part, these activities may be undertaken unless it is shown
by competent and substantial evidence that the specific activity would have a
significant adverse effect on the Protected Environmentally Sensitive Area.
      2.   The following uses and activities are presumed to have an
insignificant adverse effect on Environmentally Sensitive Zones:
         a.   Minor maintenance or emergency repair to existing structures or
improved areas.
         b.   Cleared walking trails having no structural components.
         c.   Timber catwalks, docks, and trail bridges that are less than or
equal to four (4) feet wide, provided that no filling, flooding, dredging,
draining, ditching, or excavating is done, except limited filling and
excavating necessary for the installation of pilings.
         d.   Commercial or recreational fishing.
      3.   The following activities are presumed to have an insignificant
adverse effect on the beneficial functions of the Wetlands Protection Zone:
         a.   Construction of fences where no fill activity is required and
where navigational access will not be impaired by construction of the fence.
         b.   Development of an area that no longer functions as a wetland,
except a former wetland that has been filled or altered in violation of any
rule, regulation, statute, or this Code. The developer must demonstrate that
the water regime has been permanently altered, either artificially or
naturally, in a manner to preclude the area from maintaining surface water or
hydroperiodicity necessary to sustain wetland structure and function. If the
water regime of a wetland has been artificially altered, but wetland species
remain the dominant vegetation of the area, the Department shall determine the
feasibility of restoring the altered hydrology. If the wetland may be restored
at a cost that is reasonable in relation to benefits to be derived from the
restored wetland, the developer shall, as a condition of development, restore
the wetland and comply with the requirements of this Code.
      4.   The following uses and activities are presumed to have an
insignificant adverse effect on the Canal Shoreline Protection Zone:
         a.   Clearing of shoreline vegetation to create walking trails having
no structural components, not to exceed four (4) feet in width.
         b.   Construction of fences where no fill activity is required and
where navigational access will not be impaired by construction of the fence.
      5.   The following uses and activities are presumed to have an
insignificant adverse effect on the Beach and Dune Protection Zone:
         a.   Maintenance of existing beach/dune vegetation following
Department of Natural Resource guidelines.
         b.   Activities allowed under the “Exemptions from Permit
Requirements” section of Department of Natural Resource Rules and Procedures
for Chapter 16B-33, FAC.
   C.   Special Uses
      1.   Generally
         a.   All development activities in Environmentally Sensitive Lands and
Environmental Protection Zones within the City are prohibited unless the
necessary valid permits are obtained. These permits must be obtained prior to
issuing local development approval.
         b.   Pursuant to the Conservation Element of the Comprehensive Plan,
the City shall evaluate impacts on fisheries, wildlife habitat and marine
habitat as part of its development and review and approval process. Development
activities which will destroy identified wildlife or marine habitat, or
endangered or threatened species shall be restricted through use of an
enforceable development agreement pursuant to F.S. § 163.3220-3234, or
mitigation measures pursuant to Chapter 17-312, FAC.
         c.   In the event endangered species such as sea turtles or manatees
are found within the City, the City shall contact the Department of Natural
Resources for guidance as to protective measures to be undertaken.
      2.   Permits for all development activities in jurisdictional wetlands
must be obtained from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, pursuant to Section
404, Clean Water Act and Section 10, River and Harbor Act, and/or the Florida
Department of Environmental Regulation, pursuant to Chapters 17-4 and 17-312,
FAC.
      3.   Pursuant to Policy 5.2.1 of the City Comprehensive Plan, when
reviewing applications for development permits or plan amendments the City
shall permit the following shoreline uses in order of priority. The City shall
give priority to these uses when issuing permits for competing development
applications.
         a.   Resource Conservation
            (1)   Wetlands preservation
            (2)   Protection of living marine resources
            (3)   Shoreline stabilization/dune protection
         b.   Waterfront Access and Recreation
            (1)   Public waterfront access
            (2)   Public and private open-to-public recreation
            (3)   Open space
         c.   Water-Dependent Development
            (1)   Marinas
            (2)   In-water boat repair
            (3)   Institutional
         d.   Other Uses
            (1)   Residential
            (2)   Commercial
            (3)   Institutional
      4.   Permits for development activities in beaches and dunes must be
obtained from the Florida Department of Natural Resources, pursuant to Chapters
16B-24 and 16-B33, FAC.
         a.   Prior to development approval from the City, the CCCL must be
surveyed and clearly marked on site. The City building inspector shall
periodically inspect such sites to ensure compliance with state law.
      5.   Permits for development activities in surface waters must be
obtained from the Department of Natural Resources pursuant to Chapters 16B-24
and 16B-33, FAC, and the Department of Environmental Regulation pursuant to
Chapters 17-3, 17-4, and 17-312, FAC.
         a.   Approval by the City Council of construction activities in Gulf
surface waters is dependent on determination by the developer of presence of
seagrass beds, oyster reefs, or other living marine resources. If permanent
damage to these resources is expected to result from construction activities,
the City will coordinate with the Department of Natural Resources to restrict
construction activities and determine appropriate mitigation procedures.
Appropriate mitigation is undertaken by the developer subject to the provisions
of Chapter 17-312, Part III, Florida Administrative Code.
         b.   Construction of docks, piers, wharves, or similar structures
under City jurisdiction are prohibited unless specifically approved by the City
Council.
      6.   Appropriate permits for all development activities in identified
endangered species and threatened species habitat must be obtained from the
Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission and the United States Department
of Interior. Determination of habitat is necessary when endangered or
threatened species habitat is present in the area of proposed construction
activities. The developer of any areas identified as containing wildlife
habitat shall be responsible for conducting an analysis to determine the
presence of endangered or threatened species.
   D.   Mitigation
      1.   Generally
         a.   The purchase, creation, enhancement and/or restoration of
Environmentally Sensitive Lands through compensatory mitigation is required to
compensate for the loss of such lands when a special use is allowed.
         b.   The purchased, created, enhanced, or restored Environmentally
Sensitive Land must be of the same type as those destroyed or degraded.
         c.   Compensatory mitigation shall not be the basis for approving a
project that could not otherwise be approved.
         d.   A developer of a compensatory mitigation plan shall grant a
conservation easement under F.S. § 704.06, on the newly purchased, created,
enhanced, or restored Environmentally Sensitive Lands to protect them from
future development.
      2.   Wetlands
         a.   Compensatory wetland mitigation shall require that the amount of
wetlands purchased, created, enhanced, or restored be large enough to assure
that the amount of wetlands destroyed or degraded will be completely and
successfully replaced. Replacement of destroyed wetlands shall be in accordance
with Department of Environmental Regulation mitigation standards, FAC 17-312.
      3.   Beaches and Dunes
         a.   Compensatory beach and dune mitigation shall require that the
amount of beaches and dunes created, enhanced, or restored be large enough to
assure that the amount of beaches and dunes destroyed or degraded will be
completely and successfully replaced. Creation, enhancement, or restoration
shall require, at a minimum, the planting and maintenance of xeric vegetation
to a mature stage, which is achieved approximately four (4) years after
planting of vegetation. Planting of vegetation shall begin by the first optimal
planting season following construction.
         b.   Installation of dune walkovers as part of the construction of any
new multi-family or commercial development undertaken along the gulf beach
shall be required pursuant to 5.2.1(c) of the Comprehensive Plan.
   E.   Remediation
      1.   Remediation is required when Environmentally Sensitive Lands or
other Protected Natural Resources are injured or destroyed as a result of
improper or illegal construction activities. Development activity is halted and
restoration of lands to natural conditions is required before permitting is
considered.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.06   Restricted Development Zone
   A.   Generally
There are hereby created three (3) Restricted Development Zones, one (1)
adjacent to jurisdictional wetlands, one (1) adjacent canal shorelines, and one
(1) adjacent to Wildlife Protection Zones. These zones encompass all land
within five hundred (500) feet of the boundary of the protected environmentally
sensitive zone.
   B.   Development Activities Within Restricted Development Zone
      1.   All development in a Restricted Development Zone shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained to avoid significant adverse effects on the
adjacent environmentally sensitive zone.
      2.   The following special design standards apply within Restricted
Development Zones:
         a.   Natural buffers shall be retained between development and
Environmentally Sensitive Lands and Other Protected Natural Resources. If a
natural buffer does not exist, an equivalent buffer shall be created.
         b.   The developer shall completely restore any portion of a Protected
Environmentally Sensitive Zone and other protected natural resources damaged
during construction.
         c.   Other reasonable protective measures necessary to prevent
significant adverse effects on Protected Environmentally Sensitive Zones and
Other Protected Natural Resources may be required. The factual basis of the
decision to require the measure shall be stated as a finding in the written
record. Protective measures may include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   Maintenance of natural drainage patterns.
            (2)   Limitation of the removal of vegetation to the minimum
necessary to carry out the development activity.
            (3)   Expeditious replanting of denuded areas.
            (4)   Stabilization of banks and other unvegetated areas by
siltation and erosion control measures.
            (5)   Design, location, construction, and maintenance of all
development in a manner that minimizes environmental damage.
            (6)   Use of legal mechanisms to require the developer and
successors to protect the environmentally sensitive areas and maintain the
development in compliance with the protective measures.
      3.   The following special design standards apply within Restricted
Development Zones adjacent to Wetlands Protection Zones:
         a.   The natural buffer shall be at least thirty (30) feet.
         b.   Complete restoration of a damaged wetland area means that within
two (2) years the area will be operating as effectively as the natural system
did prior to being destroyed.
         c.   The amount of fill used in the development activity will be
minimized.
         d.   Dredged spoil will be disposed of at specified locations in a
manner causing minimal environmental damage.
         e.   Any dredging shall be conducted at times of minimum biological
activity to avoid fish migration and spawning, and other cycles and activities
of wildlife.
         f.   Location of septic tanks away from high groundwater areas and
peaty soils.
      4.   The following special design standards apply within Restricted
Development Zone adjacent to the canal shoreline:
         a.   The natural buffer shall be the buffer provided in Section
4.01.06C. of this Code.
         b.   Complete restoration of damaged canal shoreline means that within
one (1) year the area will be operating as effectively as the natural system
did prior to being destroyed.
         c.   Point source and non-point source discharges are prohibited,
except for stormwater, which is regulated in Section 4.06 of these Land
Development Codes. The City reserves approval of development until the
requirements of the previously referenced section are fulfilled.
         d.   Siltation and erosion control measures shall be instituted in
accordance with Department of Environmental Regulation standards located in FAC
17-25.
         e.   Any dredging shall be conducted at times of minimum biological
activity to avoid fish migration and spawning, and other cycles and activities
of wildlife.
         f.   Any spoil that results from dredging shall be disposed of at
upland sites and stabilized within thirty (30) days, unless the spoil is
causing turbidity or other problems, in which case the developer must stabilize
the spoil immediately.
         g.   If dredging causes adjacent shores to erode, the developer shall
periodically replenish these shores with the appropriate quantity and quality
of aggregate.
         h.   Where wet moorage is offered for boats which have holding
facilities for sewage, or where other recreational vehicles are allowed to stay
overnight, then pumpout, holding, or treatment facilities shall be provided by
the developer for sewage and other wastes, including bilge, contained on
vessels and vehicles. The facilities shall be conveniently available to all
vessels and vehicles.
         i.   Marinas and other appropriate developments shall locate in areas:
            (1)   Having adequate water depth to accommodate the proposed boat
use without disturbance of bottom habitats.
            (2)   Away from seagrass beds, oyster reefs, and other important
fish and shellfish spawning and nursery areas.
            (3)   Outside areas identified as inappropriate for marina
development in the Marina Siting Study for West Florida (West Florida Regional
Planning Council; August 2000) unless appropriate mitigating actions are
undertaken.
         j.   Marinas and other appropriate developments shall:
            (1)   Maintain water quality standards as provided by F.S. Chapter
403.
            (2)   Demonstrate oil spill cleanup capability within the
boundaries of the leased area.
         k.   Marinas and other appropriate developments shall post the
following signs where they are readily visible to all users of the development:
            (1)   Regulations pertaining to handling and disposal of waste,
sewage, or toxic materials.
            (2)   Regulations prohibiting the use of vessel toilets while
moored unless these toilets are self-contained or have an approved treatment
device.
            (3)   Regulations prohibiting the disposal of fish or shellfish
cleaning wastes, scrapfish, viscera, or unused bait in or near the development.
            (4)   Appropriate messages relating to local ecological concerns,
e.g., manatee protection.
         l.   A marina shall include boat launch facilities unless the
applicant can demonstrate that providing such facilities is not feasible or it
is determined that the ramp would be excessively damaging to the aquatic
environment.
         m.   Marinas shall have adequate rest-room facilities in compliance
with local Health Board regulations.
         n.   Garbage receptacles shall be provided and maintained by the
marina operator at several locations convenient to users.
      5.   The following special design standards apply within Restricted
Development Zones adjacent to the Wildlife Habitat Protection Zone.
         a.   Natural buffers shall be retained between all development and
this Restricted Development zone. The size of the buffer shall be the minimum
necessary to prevent the effects of development from adversely affecting the
species.
         b.   Construction activities shall be designed to not damage lands in
the Wildlife Habitat Protection Zone. If damage does occur, remediation shall
be immediately undertaken.
            (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.03.07   Prohibited Ongoing Activities
The following standards apply to post-development activities taking place
within any Restricted Development Zone or Protected Environmentally Sensitive
Zone.
   A.   Point Source and Nonpoint Source Discharges
Absent an amendment to the development order, point source and nonpoint source
discharges shall continue to meet the standards applicable to the original
development.
   B.   Clearing
Absent an amendment to the development order, no person shall clear more
vegetation than was permitted for the original development.
   C.   Handling and Storage of Fuel, Hazardous and Toxic Substances, and
Wastes
      1.   Developments where fuel or toxic substances will be stored,
transferred, or sold shall employ the best available facilities and procedures
for the prevention, containment, recovery, and mitigation of spillage of fuel
and toxic substances. Facilities and procedures shall be designed to prevent
substances from entering the water or soil, and employ adequate means for
prompt and effective cleanup of spills that do occur.
      2.   No toxic or hazardous wastes or substances shall be stored in
outdoor containers.
      3.   Storage or disposal of all types of wastes is prohibited on
shorelines.
      4.   Police and Fire Departments shall coordinate with the Bay County
Department of Emergency Management as prescribed in the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan for Hazardous Materials (2004) in the event of a hazardous
materials emergency.
      5.   The City shall require that all stationary above-ground and
underground petroleum storage tanks conform to the provisions of Chapter 17-61,
FAC, and that permits be obtained from the Department of Environmental
Regulation prior to installation or removal of such tanks.
      6.   The City shall require that all small quantity generators of
hazardous waste register with Bay County Department of Emergency Management as
specified under F.S. § 403.7234 and 403.7236.
   D.   Prohibited Uses
The long-term storage of equipment or materials, and the disposal of wastes
shall be prohibited.
   E.   Fertilizers, Herbicides, or Pesticides
      1.   Fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides shall not be applied in a
Protected Environmentally Sensitive Zone except for projects conducted under
the authority of F.S. §§ 373.451-373.4595, the Surface Water Improvement and
Management Act, and governmentally-authorized mosquito control programs.
      2.   Fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides used in Restricted
Development Zones shall be applied sparingly and at appropriate rates and time
intervals.
   F.   Spray Vehicles
Vehicles used for mixing or spraying chemicals are prohibited from withdrawing
water directly from waters.
   G.   Pump-out, Holding, and Treatment Facilities for Wastes from Mobile
Sources
Sewage, solid waste, and petroleum waste generated by vessels or vehicles on
the site shall be properly collected and disposed of.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
4.04.00   WELLFIELD PROTECTION
   4.04.01   Purpose and Intent
The purpose of groundwater protection standards is to safeguard the health,
safety, and welfare of the City. This is accomplished through ensuring the
protection of the principle source of water for domestic and commercial use.
The availability of adequate and dependable supplies of good quality water is
of primary importance to the future of the City. Therefore, standards are
described in this section with the intent of protecting the quality of the
groundwater supply. It is further the intent of this section to control
development adjacent to designated wellheads to protect groundwater supplies
from potential contamination.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.04.02   Definitions
   Wellhead Protection Zone
All land within a three hundred (300) foot radius of an existing or designated
municipal wellhead.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.04.03   Restrictions on Development
   A.   Septic Tanks
Septic tanks are prohibited within two hundred (200) feet of any municipal
wellhead.
   B.   The following land uses are prohibited within the wellhead protection
zone:
      1.   Facilities for the bulk storage, handling, or processing of
materials on the Florida Substance List (F.S. Ch. 442)
      2.   Activities that require the storage, use, handling, production or
transportation of restricted substances: agricultural chemicals, petroleum
products, hazardous/toxic wastes, industrial chemicals, medical wastes, etc.
      3.   Excavation of waterways or drainage facilities which intersect the
water table.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
4.05.00   FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS
   4.05.01   Administration
   A.   Title.
These regulations shall be known as the floodplain management section of the
city, hereinafter referred to as "this section."
   B.   Scope.
The provisions of this section shall apply to all development that is wholly
within or partially within any flood hazard area and the two-tenths of one
percent (0.2%) (500-year) flood hazard area (shaded Zone X), including but not
limited to the subdivision of land; filling, grading, and other site
improvements and utility installations; construction, alteration, remodeling,
enlargement, improvement, replacement, repair, relocation or demolition of
buildings, structures, and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building
Code; placement, installation, or replacement of manufactured homes and
manufactured buildings; installation or replacement of tanks; placement of
recreational vehicles; installation of swimming pools; and any other
development.
   C.   Intent.
The purposes of this section and the flood load and flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code are to establish minimum
requirements to safeguard the public health, safety, and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flooding through regulation of
development in flood hazard areas to:
      1.   Minimize unnecessary disruption of commerce, access and public
service during times of flooding;
      2.   Require the use of appropriate construction practices in order to
prevent or minimize future flood damage;
      3.   Manage filling, grading, dredging, mining, paving, excavation,
drilling operations, storage of equipment or materials, and other development
which may increase flood damage or erosion potential;
      4.   Manage the alteration of flood hazard areas, watercourses, and
shorelines to minimize the impact of development on the natural and beneficial
functions of the floodplain;
      5.   Minimize damage to public and private facilities and utilities;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood hazard areas;
      7.   Minimize the need for future expenditure of public funds for flood
control projects and response to and recovery from flood events; and
      8.   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program for
community participation as set forth in Title 44 Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 59.22.
   D.   Coordination with the Florida Building Code.
This section is intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction with
the Florida Building Code. Where cited, ASCE 24 refers to the edition of the
standard that is referenced by the Florida Building Code. In the City of Mexico
City, administration of the flood provisions of the Florida Building Code shall
be based on the flood hazard area established in paragraph G of this Section.
   E.   Warning.
The degree of flood protection required by this section and the Florida
Building Code, as amended by this community, is considered the minimum
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This section does not imply that land
outside of mapped special flood hazard areas, or that uses permitted within
such flood hazard areas, will be free from flooding or flood damage. The flood
hazard areas and base flood elevations contained in the Flood Insurance Study
and shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps and the requirements of Title 44 Code of
Federal Regulations, Sections 59 and 60 may be revised by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, requiring this community to revise these regulations to
remain eligible for participation in the National Flood Insurance Program. No
guaranty of vested use, existing use, or future use is implied or expressed by
compliance with this section.
   F.   Disclaimer of liability.
This section shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of the
City of Mexico Beach or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this section or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   G.   Applicability.
      1.   General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and
a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
      2.   Areas to which this section applies. This section shall apply to all
flood hazard areas within the City, as established in subparagraph 3.
      3.   Basis for establishing flood hazard areas.
         a.   Except as provided in subparagraph b., the Flood Insurance Study
for Bay County, Florida and incorporated areas dated June 2, 2009, and all
subsequent amendments and revisions, and the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate
Maps (FIRM), and all subsequent amendments and revisions to such maps, are
adopted by reference as a part of this section and shall serve as the minimum
basis for establishing flood hazard areas. Studies and maps that establish
flood hazard areas are on file at the City of Mexico Beach, City Hall, 201
Paradise Path, Mexico Beach, Florida 32410.
         b.   The "Post-Michael Adapted Preliminary Flood Map for Bay County"
produced by the Northwest Florida Water Management District, or as revised and
reposted to the NWFWMD webpage (http://portal.nwfwmdfloodmaps.com), are adopted
by reference as a part of this section and, where such maps show more
restrictive base flood elevation and more restrictive flood zone designations
than shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps adopted in subparagraph 3.a., the
more restrictive of the base flood elevation and flood zone designations shall
prevail. Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by FEMA establishing
the effective date for revisions to the study and maps cited in subparagraph
3.a., this subparagraph shall be voided.
      4.   Submission of additional data to establish flood hazard areas. To
establish flood hazard areas and base flood elevations, pursuant to Section
4.05.04 the Floodplain Administrator may require submission of additional data.
Where field surveyed topography prepared by a Florida licensed professional
surveyor or digital topography accepted by the community indicates that ground
elevations:
         a.   Are below the closest applicable base flood elevation, even in
areas not delineated as a special flood hazard area on a FIRM, the area shall
be considered as flood hazard area and subject to the requirements of this
section and, as applicable, the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
         b.   Are above the closest applicable base flood elevation, the area
shall be regulated as special flood hazard area unless the applicant obtains a
Letter of Map Change that removes the area from the special flood hazard area.
      5.   Other laws. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to
nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law.
      6.   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This section supersedes any
ordinance in effect for management of development in flood hazard areas.
However, it is not intended to repeal or abrogate any existing ordinances
including but not limited to land development regulations, zoning ordinances,
stormwater management regulations, or the Florida Building Code. In the event
of a conflict between this section and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall govern. This section shall not impair any deed restriction,
covenant or easement, but any land that is subject to such interests shall also
be governed by this section.
      7.   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
section, all provisions shall be:
         a.   Considered as minimum requirements;
         b.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
         c.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   H.   Definitions.
      1.   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and
terms shall, for the purposes of this section, have the meanings shown in this
section.
      2.   Terms defined in the Florida Building Code. Where terms are not
defined in this section and are defined in the Florida Building Code, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in that code.
      3.   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined in this section or
the Florida Building Code, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   Alteration of a watercourse.
A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment,
channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the channel or the channel
capacity, or any other form of modification which may alter, impede, retard or
change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of water during
conditions of the base flood.
   Appeal.
A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's interpretation of any
provision of this section.
   ASCE 24.
A standard titled Flood Resistant Design and Construction that is referenced by
the Florida Building Code. ASCE 24 is developed and published by the American
Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, Virginia.
   Base flood.
A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.) The base flood is commonly
referred to as the "100-year flood" or the "1% annual chance flood."
   Base flood elevation.
The elevation of the base flood, including wave height, relative to the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD), North American Vertical Datum (NAVD)
or other datum specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). (Also defined
in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Basement.
The portion of a building having its floor sub grade (below ground level) on
all sides. "Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202; see "Basement (for flood
loads)"."
   Coastal construction control line.
The line established by the State of Florida pursuant to F.S. § 161.053, and
recorded in the official records of the community, which defines that portion
of the beach-dune system subject to severe fluctuations based on a 100-year
storm surge, storm waves or other predictable weather conditions.
   Coastal high hazard area.
A special flood hazard area extending from offshore to the inland limit of a
primary frontal dune along an open coast and any other area subject to high
velocity wave action from storms or seismic sources. Coastal high hazard areas
are also referred to as "high hazard areas subject to high velocity wave
action" or "V Zones" and are designated on Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) as
Zone V1-V30, VE, or V.
   Critical facility.
A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding poses unacceptable risk.
Critical facilities include facilities assigned Flood Design Class 4 and care
facilities where residents have limited mobility or ability, including nursing
homes but not including care facilities for five (5) or fewer persons.
   Design flood.
The flood associated with the greater of the following two (2) areas: (Also
defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
      (a)   Area with a floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or greater
chance of flooding in any year; or
      (b)   Area designated as a flood hazard area on the community's flood
hazard map, except for the 0.2% (500-year) flood hazard area (shaded Zone X),
or otherwise legally designated.
   Design flood elevation.
The elevation of the "design flood," including wave height, relative to the
datum specified on the community's legally designated flood hazard map. In
areas designated as Zone AO, the design flood elevation shall be the elevation
of the highest existing grade of the building's perimeter plus the depth number
(in feet) specified on the flood hazard map. In areas designated as Zone AO
where the depth number is not specified on the map, the depth number shall be
taken as being equal to two (2) feet. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Development.
Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks, temporary structures,
temporary or permanent storage of equipment or materials, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations or any other land
disturbing activities.
   Encroachment.
The placement of fill, excavation, buildings, permanent structures or other
development into a flood hazard area which may impede or alter the flow
capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
   Existing building and existing structure.
Any buildings and structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
before July 15, 1977. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before July 15, 1977.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision.
The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
The federal agency that, in addition to carrying out other functions,
administers the National Flood Insurance Program.
   Flood or flooding.
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
dry land from: (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
      (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   Flood damage-resistant materials.
Any construction material capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact
with floodwaters without sustaining any damage that requires more than cosmetic
repair. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Flood hazard area.
The greater of the following two (2) areas: (Also defined in FBC, B, Section
202.)
      (a)   The area within a floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of flooding in any year.
      (b)   The two-tenths of one percent (0.2%) (five hundred (500)-year)
flood hazard area (shaded Zone X) designated as a flood hazard area on the
community's flood hazard map, or otherwise legally designated.
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
The official map of the community on which the Federal Emergency Management
Agency has delineated both special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS).
The official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency that
contains the Flood Insurance Rate Map, the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (if
applicable), the water surface elevations of the base flood, and supporting
technical data. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Floodplain Administrator.
The office or position designated and charged with the administration and
enforcement of this section (may be referred to as the Floodplain Manager).
   Floodplain development permit or approval.
An official document or certificate issued by the community, or other evidence
of approval or concurrence, which authorizes performance of specific
development activities that are located in flood hazard areas and that are
determined to be compliant with this section.
   Floodway.
The channel of a river or other riverine watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
(Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Floodway encroachment analysis.
An engineering analysis of the impact that a proposed encroachment into a
floodway is expected to have on the floodway boundaries and base flood
elevations; the evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified Florida licensed
engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
   Florida Building Code.
The family of codes adopted by the Florida Building Commission, including:
Florida Building Code, Building; Florida Building Code, Residential; Florida
Building Code, Existing Building; Florida Building Code, Mechanical; Florida
Building Code, Plumbing; Florida Building Code, Fuel Gas.
   Functionally dependent use.
A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried
out in close proximity to water, including only docking facilities, port
facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities; the term does not
include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   Highest adjacent grade.
The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next
to the proposed walls or foundation of a structure.
   Historic structure.
Any structure that is determined eligible for the exception to the flood hazard
area requirements of the Florida Building Code, Existing Building, Chapter 12
Historic Buildings.
   Letter of Map Change (LOMC).
An official determination issued by FEMA that amends or revises an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study. Letters of Map Change
include: Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An amendment based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area. Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A
revision based on technical data that may show changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, special flood hazard area boundaries and floodway delineations, and
other planimetric features.
   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F).
A determination that a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill
above the base flood elevation and is, therefore, no longer located within the
special flood hazard area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill
must have been permitted and placed in accordance with the community's
floodplain management regulations.
   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR).
A formal review and comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project
or other project complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects
with respect to delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not
revise the effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance study; upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map
Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.
   Light-duty truck.
As defined in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2, any motor vehicle rated at eight thousand
five hundred (8,500) pounds gross vehicular weight rating or less which has a
vehicular curb weight of six thousand (6,000) pounds or less and which has a
basic vehicle frontal area of forty-five (45) square feet or less, which is:
      (a)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle, or
      (b)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than twelve (12) persons; or
      (c)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   Lowest floor.
The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area of a building or structure,
including basement, but excluding any unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure,
other than a basement, usable solely for vehicle parking, building access or
limited storage provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
structure in violation of the non-elevation requirements of the Florida
Building Code or ASCE 24. (Also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
   Manufactured home.
A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which is eight (8) feet
or more in width and greater than four hundred (400) square feet, and which is
built on a permanent, integral chassis and is designed for use with or without
a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle" or "park
trailer." (Also defined in 15C-l.0101, F.A.C.)
   Manufactured home park or subdivision.
A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Market value.
The price at which a property will change hands between a willing buyer and a
willing seller, neither party being under compulsion to buy or sell and both
having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts. As used in this chapter, the
term refers to the market value of buildings and structures, excluding the land
and other improvements on the parcel. Market value may be established by a
qualified independent appraiser, actual cash value (replacement cost
depreciated for age and quality of construction), or tax assessment value
adjusted to approximate market value by a factor provided by the Property
Appraiser.
   New construction.
For the purposes of administration of this section and the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code, structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after July 15, 1977 and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision.
A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed ( including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed on or after July 15, 1977.
   Park trailer.
A transportable unit which has a body width not exceeding fourteen (14) feet
and which is built on a single chassis and is designed to provide seasonal or
temporary living quarters when connected to utilities necessary for operation
of installed fixtures and appliances. (Defined in F.S. § 320.01.)
   Recreational vehicle.
A vehicle, including a park trailer, which is: (See F.S. § 320.01.)
      (a)   Built on a single chassis;
      (b)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Sand dunes.
Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds landward of the
beach.
   Special flood hazard area.
An area in the floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are shown on FIRMs as
Zone A, AO, A1-A30, AE, A99, AH, V1-V30, VE or V. (Also defined in FBC, B
Section 202.)
   Start of construction.
The date of issuance of permits for new construction and substantial
improvements, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement is
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of the issuance. The actual
start of construction means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns. Permanent construction does not include land preparation (such as
clearing, grading, or filling), the installation of streets or walkways,
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, the erection of
temporary forms or the installation of accessory buildings such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main buildings. For a
substantial improvement, the actual "start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
(Also defined in FBC, B Section 202.)
   Substantial damage.
Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
building or structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the building or structure before the
damage occurred. The term also includes flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10)-year period for which
the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or
exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. (Also defined in FBC, B Section 202.)
   Substantial improvement.
Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one (1)-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the market value of the building or structure before the improvement or repair
is started. For each building or structure, the one (1)-year period begins on
the date of the first permit issued for improvement or repair of that building
or structure subsequent to May 11, 2016. If the structure has incurred
"substantial damage," any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either (also defined in FBC, B, Section 202.)
      (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
   Variance.
A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, or the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code, which permits
construction in a manner that would not otherwise be permitted by this chapter
or the Florida Building Code.
   Watercourse.
A river, creek, stream, channel or other topographic feature in, on, through,
or over which water flows at least periodically.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.02   Duties and Powers of the Floodplain Administrator
   A.   Designation.
The City Administrator is designated as the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator may delegate performance of certain duties to other
employees.
   B.   Authorization.
The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the provisions of this section. The Floodplain Administrator shall have
the authority to render interpretations of this section consistent with the
intent and purpose of this section and may establish policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
policies, and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving requirements
specifically provided in this section without the granting of a variance
pursuant to Section
4.05.06.
   C.   Applications and permits.
The Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with other pertinent offices of
the community, shall:
      1.   Review applications and plans to determine whether proposed new
development will be located in flood hazard areas;
      2.   Review applications for modification of any existing development in
flood hazard areas for compliance with the requirements of this section;
      3.   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries where such interpretation is
necessary to determine the exact location of boundaries; a person contesting
the determination shall have the opportunity to appeal the interpretation;
      4.   Provide available flood elevation and flood hazard information;
      5.   Determine whether additional flood hazard data shall be obtained
from other sources or shall be developed by an applicant;
      6.   Review applications to determine whether proposed development will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
      7.   Issue floodplain development permits or approvals for development
other than buildings and structures that are subject to the Florida Building
Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida
Building Code, when compliance with this section is demonstrated, or disapprove
the same in the event of noncompliance; and
      8.   Coordinate with and provide comments to the Building Official to
assure that applications, plan reviews, and inspections for buildings and
structures in flood hazard areas comply with the applicable provisions of this
section.
   D.   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations.
For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flooding, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of "substantial damage" and the determination requires evaluation of
precious permits issued for improvements and repairs as specified in the
definition of "substantial improvement"; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code
and this section is required.
   E.   Modifications of the strict application of the requirements of the
Florida Building Code.
The Floodplain Administrator shall review requests submitted to the Building
Official that seek approval to modify the strict application of the flood load
and flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida Building Code to
determine whether such requests require the granting of a variance pursuant to
Section
4.05.06.
   F.   Notices and orders.
The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with appropriate local agencies
for the issuance of all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with
this section.
   G.   Inspections.
The Floodplain Administrator shall make the required inspections as specified
in Section
4.05.05 for development that is not subject to the Florida Building Code,
including buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect flood hazard areas to
determine if development is undertaken without issuance of a permit.
   H.   Other duties of the Floodplain Administrator.
The Floodplain Administrator shall have other duties, including but not limited
to:
      1.   Establish, in coordination with the Building Official, procedures
for administering and documenting determinations of substantial improvement and
substantial damage made pursuant to Section
4.05.02, paragraph D.;
      2.   Require that applicants proposing alteration of a watercourse notify
adjacent communities and the Florida Division of Emergency Management, State
Floodplain Management Office, and submit copies of such notifications to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      3.   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data and
information necessary to maintain the Flood Insurance Rate Maps if the analyses
propose to change base flood elevations, flood hazard area boundaries, or
floodway designations; such submissions shall be made within six (6) months of
such data becoming available;
      4.   Review required design certifications and documentation of
elevations specified by this section and the Florida Building Code to determine
that such certifications and documentation are complete;
      5.   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of the City of Mexico Beach are modified; and
      6.   Advise applicants for new buildings and structures, including
substantial improvements, that are located in any unit of the Coastal Barrier
Resources System established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-
348) and the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-591) that
federal flood insurance is not available on such construction; areas subject to
this limitation are identified on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as "Coastal Barrier
Resource System Areas" and "Otherwise Protected Areas."
   I.   Floodplain management records.
Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention of public
records, the Floodplain Administrator shall maintain and permanently keep and
make available for public inspection all records that are necessary for the
administration of this section and the flood resistant construction
requirements of the Florida Building Code, including Flood Insurance Rate Maps;
Letters of Map Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits;
determinations of whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or
repair of substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation
of elevations specified by the Florida Building Code and this section;
notifications to adjacent communities, FEMA, and the state related to
alterations of watercourses; assurances that the flood carrying capacity of
altered watercourses will be maintained; documentation related to appeals and
variances, including justification for issuance or denial; and records of
enforcement actions taken pursuant to this section and the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code. These records shall be
available for public inspection at City Hall by contacting the City
Administrator.
      (Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.03   Permits
   A.   Permits required.
Any owner or owner's authorized agent (hereinafter "applicant") who intends to
undertake any development activity within the scope of this section, including
buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building Code,
which is wholly within or partially within any flood hazard area shall first
make application to the Floodplain Administrator, and the Building Official if
applicable, and shall obtain the required permit(s) and approval(s). No such
permit or approval shall be issued until compliance with the requirements of
this section and all other applicable codes and regulations has been satisfied.
   B.   Floodplain development permits or approvals.
Floodplain development permits or approvals shall be issued pursuant to this
section for any development activities not subject to the requirements of the
Florida Building Code, including buildings, structures and facilities exempt
from the Florida Building Code. Depending on the nature and extent of proposed
development that includes a building or structure, the Floodplain Administrator
may determine that a floodplain development permit or approval is required in
addition to a building permit.
   C.   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code.
Pursuant to the requirements of federal regulation for participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program (44 C.F.R. Sections 59 and 60), floodplain
development permits or approvals shall be required for the following buildings,
structures and facilities that are exempt from the Florida Building Code and
any further exemptions provided by law, which are subject to the requirements
of this section:
      1.   Railroads and ancillary facilities associated with the railroad.
      2.   Nonresidential farm buildings on farms, as provided in F.S. §
604.50.
      3.   Temporary buildings or sheds used exclusively for construction
purposes.
      4.   Mobile or modular structures used as temporary offices.
      5.   Those structures or facilities of electric utilities, as defined in
F.S. § 366.02, which are directly involved in the generation, transmission, or
distribution of electricity.
      6.   Chickees constructed by the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida
or the Seminole Tribe of Florida. As used in this paragraph, the term "chickee"
means an open-sided wooden hut that has a thatched roof of palm or palmetto or
other traditional materials, and that does not incorporate any electrical,
plumbing, or other non-wood features.
      7.   Family mausoleums not exceeding two hundred fifty (250) square feet
in area which are prefabricated and assembled on site or preassembled and
delivered on site and have walls, roofs, and a floor constructed of granite,
marble, or reinforced concrete.
      8.   Temporary housing provided by the Department of Corrections to any
prisoner in the state correctional system.
      9.   Structures identified in F.S. § 553.73(10)(k), are not exempt from
the Florida Building Code if such structures are located in flood hazard areas
established on Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   D.   Application for permit or approval.
      1.   To obtain a floodplain development permit or approval the applicant
shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished by the
community.
      2.   The information provided shall:
         a.   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the permit
or approval.
         b.   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
conducted by legal description, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the site.
         c.   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended.
         d.   Be accompanied by a site plan or construction documents as
specified in Section
4.05.04.
         e.   State the valuation of the proposed work.
         f.   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent.
         g.   Give such other data and information as required by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   E.   Validity of permit or approval.
The issuance of a floodplain development permit or approval pursuant to this
section shall not be construed to be a permit for, or approval of, any
violation of this section, the Florida Building Codes, or any other ordinance
of this community. The issuance of permits based on submitted applications,
construction documents, and information shall not prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from requiring the correction of errors and omissions.
   F.   Expiration.
A floodplain development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
work authorized by such permit is commenced within one hundred eighty (180)
days after its issuance, or if the work authorized is suspended or abandoned
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after the work commences.
Extensions for periods of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days each
shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be demonstrated.
   G.   Suspension or revocation.
The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to suspend or revoke a floodplain
development permit or approval if the permit was issued in error, on the basis
of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or in violation of this
section or any other ordinance, regulation or requirement of this community.
   H.   Other permits required.
Floodplain development permits and building permits shall include a condition
that all other applicable state or federal permits be obtained before
commencement of the permitted development, including but not limited to the
following:
      1.   The Northwest Florida Water Management District; F.S. § 373.036.
      2.   Florida Department of Health for onsite sewage treatment and
disposal systems; F.S. § 381.0065 and Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C.
      3.   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for construction,
reconstruction, changes, or physical activities for shore protection or other
activities seaward of the coastal construction control line; F.S. § 161.041.
      4.   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities
subject to the Joint Coastal Permit; F.S. § 161.055.
      5.   Florida Department of Environmental Protection for activities that
affect wetlands and alter surface water flows, in conjunction with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers; Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
      6.   Federal permits and approvals.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.04   Site Plans and Construction Documents
   A.   Information for development in flood hazard areas.
      1.   The site plan or construction documents for any development subject
to the requirements of this section shall be drawn to scale and shall include,
as applicable to the proposed development:
         a.   Delineation of flood hazard areas, 500-year floodplain boundary,
floodway boundaries and flood zone(s), base flood elevation(s), and ground
elevations if necessary for review of the proposed development.
         b.   Where base flood elevations or floodway data are not included on
the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, they shall be established in
accordance with Section
4.05.04, paragraphs B. or C.
         c.   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take
place will have more than fifty (50) lots or is larger than five (5) acres and
the base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the Flood
Insurance Study, such elevations shall be established in accordance with
Section
4.05.04, paragraph A.
         d.   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures; in coastal high hazard areas,
new buildings shall be located landward of the reach of mean high tide.
         e.   Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any
filling, grading, or excavation.
         f.   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; compensatory storage excavations, if
required; and evidence that the proposed fill areas are the minimum necessary
to achieve the intended purpose.
         g.   Delineation of the Coastal Construction Control Line or notation
that the site is seaward of the coastal construction control line, if
applicable.
         h.   Extent of any proposed alteration of sand dunes or mangrove
stands, provided such alteration is approved by the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection.
         i.   Existing and proposed alignment of any proposed alteration of a
watercourse.
      2.   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the submission
of site plans, construction documents, and other data that are required by this
section but that are not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional if it is found that the nature of the proposed development is such
that the review of such submissions is not necessary to ascertain compliance
with this section.
   B.   Information in flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
(approximate Zone A).
Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the FIRM and base flood elevation
data have not been provided, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      1.   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data prepared
in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices.
      2.   Obtain, review, and provide to applicants base flood elevation and
floodway data available from a federal or state agency or other source or
require the applicant to obtain and use base flood elevation and floodway data
available from a federal or state agency or other source.
      3.   Where base flood elevation and floodway data are not available from
another source, where the available data are deemed by the Floodplain
Administrator to not reasonably reflect flooding conditions, or where the
available data are known to be scientifically or technically incorrect or
otherwise inadequate:
         a.   Require the applicant to include base flood elevation data
prepared in accordance with currently accepted engineering practices; or
         b.   Specify that the base flood elevation is two (2) feet above the
highest adjacent grade at the location of the development, provided there is no
evidence indicating flood depths have been or may be greater than two (2) feet.
      4.   Where the base flood elevation data are to be used to support a
Letter of Map Change from FEMA, advise the applicant that the analyses shall be
prepared by a Florida licensed engineer in a format required by FEMA, and that
it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to satisfy the submittal
requirements and pay the processing fees.
   C.   Additional analyses and certifications.
As applicable to the location and nature of the proposed development activity,
and in addition to the requirements of this section, the applicant shall have
the following analyses signed and sealed by a Florida licensed engineer for
submission with the site plan and construction documents:
      1.   For development activities proposed to be located in a regulatory
floodway, a floodway encroachment analysis that demonstrates that the
encroachment of the proposed development will not cause any increase in base
flood elevations; where the applicant proposes to undertake development
activities that do increase base flood elevations, the applicant shall submit
such analysis to FEMA as specified in Section
4.05.04, paragraph D. and shall submit the Conditional Letter of Map Revision,
if issued by FEMA, with the site plan and construction documents.
      2.   For development activities proposed to be located in a riverine
flood hazard area for which base flood elevations are included in the Flood
Insurance Study or on the FIRM and floodways have not been designated,
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that demonstrate that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated flood hazard area encroachments, will not increase the base flood
elevation more than one (1) foot at any point within the community. This
requirement does not apply in isolated flood hazard areas not connected to a
riverine flood hazard area or in flood hazard areas identified as Zone AO or
Zone AH.
      3.   For alteration of a watercourse, an engineering analysis prepared in
accordance with standard engineering practices which demonstrates that the
flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse
will not be decreased, and certification that the altered watercourse shall be
maintained in a manner which preserves the channel's flood-carrying capacity;
the applicant shall submit the analysis to FEMA as specified in Section
4.05.04, paragraph D.
      4.   For activities that propose to alter sand dunes or mangrove stands
in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), an engineering analysis that
demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the potential for
flood damage.
   D.   Submission of additional data
When additional hydrologic, hydraulic or other engineering data, studies, and
additional analyses are submitted to support an application, the applicant has
the right to seek a Letter of Map Change from FEMA to change the base flood
elevations, change floodway boundaries, or change boundaries of flood hazard
areas shown on FIRMs, and to submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The
analyses shall be prepared by a Florida licensed engineer in a format required
by FEMA. Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be the responsibility
of the applicant.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.05   Inspections
   A.   General inspections.
Development for which a floodplain development permit or approval is required
shall be subject to inspection.
   B.   Development other than buildings and structures.
The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect all development to determine
compliance with the requirements of this section and the conditions of issued
floodplain development permits or approvals.
   C.   Buildings, structures and facilities exempt from the Florida Building
Code.
The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect buildings, structures and facilities
exempt from the Florida Building Code to determine compliance with the
requirements of this section and the conditions of issued floodplain
development permits or approvals.
   D.   Lowest floor inspection.
Upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further
vertical construction, the owner of a building. structure or facility exempt
from the Florida Building Code, or the owner's authorized agent, shall submit
to the Floodplain Administrator:
      1.   If a design flood elevation was used to determine the required
elevation of the lowest floor, the certification of elevation of the lowest
floor prepared and sealed by a Florida licensed professional surveyor; or
      2.   If the elevation used to determine the required elevation of the
lowest floor was determined in accordance with Section
4.05.04, subparagraph B.3.b., the documentation of height of the lowest floor
above highest adjacent grade, prepared by the owner or the owner's authorized
agent.
   E.   Final inspection.
As part of the final inspection, the owner or owner's authorized agent shall
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a final certification of elevation of
the lowest floor or final documentation of the height of the lowest floor above
the highest adjacent grade; such certifications and documentation shall be
prepared as specified in Section
4.05.04, paragraph D.
   F.   Manufactured homes.
The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect manufactured homes that are
installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to determine compliance with the
requirements of this section and the conditions of the issued permit. Upon
placement of a manufactured home, certification of the elevation of the lowest
floor shall be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.06   Variances and Appeals
   A.   Requests.
The City Council shall hear and decide on requests for appeals and requests for
variances from the strict application of this section. Pursuant to F.S. §
553.73(5), the City Council shall hear and decide on requests for appeals and
requests for variances from the strict application of the flood resistant
construction requirements of the Florida Building Code. This section does not
apply to Section 3109 of the Florida Building Code, Building.
   B.   Appeals.
The City Council shall hear and decide on appeals when it is alleged there is
an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the administration and enforcement of this section. Any person
aggrieved by the decision may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as
provided by Florida Statutes.
   C.   Limitations on authority to grant variances.
The City Council shall base its decisions on variances on technical
justifications submitted by applicants, the considerations for issuance in
paragraph G. of this section, the conditions of issuance set forth in paragraph
H. of this section, and the comments and recommendations of the Floodplain
Administrator and the Building Official. The City Council has the right to
attach such conditions as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of this section.
   D.   Restrictions in floodways.
A variance shall not be issued for any proposed development in a floodway if
any increase in base flood elevations would result, as evidenced by the
applicable analyses and certifications required in Section
4.05.04, paragraph C.
   E.   Historic buildings.
A variance is authorized to be issued for the repair, improvement, or
rehabilitation of a historic building that is determined eligible for the
exception to the flood resistant construction requirements of the Florida
Building Code, Existing Building, Chapter 12 Historic Buildings, upon a
determination that the proposed repair, improvement, or rehabilitation will not
preclude the building’s continued designation as a historic building and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the building. If the proposed work precludes the building's continued
designation as a historic building, a variance shall not be granted and the
building and any repair, improvement, and rehabilitation shall be subject to
the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
   F.   Functionally dependent uses.
A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or substantial
improvement necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, as
defined in this section, provided the variance meets the requirements of
paragraph D. of this section is the minimum necessary considering the flood
hazard, and all due consideration has been given to use of methods and
materials that minimize flood damage during occurrence of the base flood.
   G.   Considerations for issuance of variances.
In reviewing requests for variances, the City Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all other applicable provisions of
the Florida Building Code, this section, and the following:
      1.   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents,
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development
to the community;
      5.   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed development
that are subject to lower risk of flooding or erosion;
      6.   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development;
      7.   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for the area;
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      9.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris
and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets and bridges.
   H.   Conditions for issuance of variances.
Variances shall be issued only upon:
      1.   Submission by the applicant, of a showing of good and sufficient
cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography
of the site limit compliance with any provision of this section or the required
elevation standards;
      2.   Determination by the City Council that:
         a.   Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship due to the physical characteristics of the land that render the lot
undevelopable; increased costs to satisfy the requirements or inconvenience do
not constitute hardship;
         b.   The granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, nor
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing local laws and ordinances; and
         c.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
      3.   Receipt of a signed statement by the applicant that the variance, if
granted, shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Court in such a
manner that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      4.   If the request is for a variance to allow construction of the lowest
floor of a new building, or substantial improvement of a building, below the
required elevation, a copy in the record of a written notice from the
Floodplain Administrator to the applicant for the variance, specifying the
difference between the base flood elevation and the proposed elevation of the
lowest floor, stating that the cost of federal flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced floor elevation
(up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage), and stating that
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.07   Violations
   A.   Violations.
Any development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code but
that is regulated by this section that is performed without an issued permit,
that is in conflict with an issued permit, or that does not fully comply with
this section, shall be deemed a violation of this section. A building or
structure without the documentation of elevation of the lowest floor, other
required design certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by
this section or the Florida Building Code is presumed to be a violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   B.   Authority.
For development that is not within the scope of the Florida Building Code but
that is regulated by this section and that is determined to be a violation, the
Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve notices of violation or stop
work orders to owners of the property involved, to the owner's agent, or to the
person or persons performing the work.
   C.   Unlawful continuance.
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a notice
of violation or a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove or remedy a violation or unsafe condition, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.08   Flood Resistant Development
   A.   Buildings and structures.
      1.   Design and construction of buildings, structures and facilities
exempt from the Florida Building Code. Pursuant to Section
4.05.03, paragraph C., buildings, structures, and facilities that are exempt
from the Florida Building Code, including substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage of such buildings, structures and facilities, shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the flood load and flood resistant
construction requirements of ASCE 24. Structures exempt from the Florida
Building Code that are not walled and roofed buildings shall comply with the
requirements of Section
4.05.14.
      2.   Buildings and structures seaward of the coastal construction control
line. If extending, in whole or in part, seaward of the coastal construction
control line and also located, in whole or in part, in a flood hazard area:
         a.   Buildings and structures shall be designed and constructed to
comply with the more restrictive applicable requirements of the Florida
Building Code, Building Section 3109 and Section 1612 or Florida Building Code,
Residential Section R322.
         b.   Minor structures and non-habitable major structures as defined in
F.S. § 161.54, shall be designed and constructed to comply with the intent and
applicable provisions of this section and ASCE 24.
   B.   Critical facilities.
New critical facilities shall, to the extent feasible, be located outside of
the special flood hazard area and outside of the two-tenths of one percent
(0.2%) (500-year) floodplain. If documentation is provided that feasible sites
outside of the special flood hazard and outside of the two-tenths of one
percent (0.2%) (500-year) floodplain are not available that satisfy the
objectives of a proposed critical facility, then the critical facility shall
have the lowest floor or level of dry floodproofing at or above the base flood
elevation plus three (3) feet, whichever is higher.
   C.   Technical amendments to the Florida Building Code, Residential.
Modify Section R322 by amending the following sections, with all changes shown
being relative to the original Florida Building Code language rather than any
prior technical amendment by the City:
      R322.2.1 Elevation requirements.
         1.   Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas including flood
hazard areas designated as Coastal A Zones, shall have the lowest floors
elevated to or above the base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet (457.2 mm), or the
design flood elevation, whichever is higher.
         2.   In areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones), buildings and structures
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to a height above the
highest adjacent grade of not less than the depth number specified in feet (mm)
on the FIRM plus 2 feet (610 mm), or not less than 4 feet (1220 mm) if a depth
number is not specified.
         3.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides shall be
elevated to or above base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet (457.2 mm), or the
design flood elevation, whichever is higher.
      Exception: Enclosed areas below the design flood elevation, including
basements with floors that are not below grade on all sides, shall meet the
requirements of Section 322.2.2.
      R322.2.2 Enclosed areas below design flood elevation. Enclosed areas,
including crawl spaces, that are below the design flood elevation shall:
   1.   Be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage. The
interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be partitioned or finished
into separate rooms except for stairwells, ramps, and elevators, unless a
partition is required by the fire code. The limitation on partitions does not
apply to load bearing walls interior to perimeter wall (crawlspace)
foundations. Access to enclosed areas shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for the parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the building (stairway or elevator).
         Remainder unchanged
      R322.3.2 Elevation requirements.
         1.   Buildings and structures erected within coastal high-hazard areas
and Coastal A Zones, shall be elevated so that the bottom of the lowest
horizontal structure members supporting the lowest floor, with the exception of
pilings, pile caps, columns, grade beams and bracing, is elevated to or above
the base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet (457.2 mm), or the design flood
elevation, whichever is higher.
         2.   Basement floors that are below grade on all sides are prohibited.
         3.   The use of fill for structural support is prohibited.
   4.   Minor grading, and the placement of minor quantities of fill, shall be
permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes under and around buildings
and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios and walkways.
   5.   Walls and partitions enclosing areas below the design flood elevation
shall meet the requirements of Sections R322.3.4 and R322.3.5.
      R322.3.4 Walls below design flood elevation. Walls are permitted below
the elevated floor, provided that such walls are not part of the structural
support of the building or structure and:
   1.   Electrical, mechanical and plumbing system components are not to be
mounted on or penetrate through walls that are designed to break away under
flood loads; and
         2.   Are constructed with insect screening or open lattice; or
   3.   Are designed to break away or collapse without causing collapse,
displacement or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building
or supporting foundation system. Such walls, framing and connections shall have
a resistance of not less than 10 (479 Pa) and not more than 20 pounds per
square foot (958 Pa) as determined using allowable stress design; or
   4.   Where wind loading values of this code exceed 20 pounds per square foot
(958 Pa), as determined using allowable stress design, the construction
documents shall include documentation prepared and sealed by a registered
design professional that:
   4.1. The walls below the design flood elevation have been designed to
collapse from a water load less than that which would occur during the base
flood.
   4.2. The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation system
have been designed to withstand the effects of wind and flood loads acting
simultaneously on structural and nonstructural building components. Water-
loading values used shall be those associated with the design flood. Wind-
loading values shall be those required by this code.
   5.   Walls intended to break away under flood loads as specified in Item 3
or 4 have flood openings that meet the criteria in Section R322.2.2, Item 2.
R322.3.5 Enclosed areas below the design flood elevation. Enclosed areas below
the design flood elevation shall be used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage. The interior portion of such enclosed area shall
not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms except for stairwells,
ramps, and elevators, unless a partition is required by the fire code. Access
to enclosed areas shall be the minimum necessary to allow for the parking of
vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment used in
connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or entry to the building
(stairway or elevator).
   D.   Technical amendments to the Florida Building Code, Building.
Modify Section 202 by amending the following definitions, with all changes
shown being relative to the original Florida Building Code language rather than
any prior technical amendment by the City:
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the building or structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the building or structure
before the damage occurred. The term also includes flood-related damage
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on average,
equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, alteration, addition, or other improvement of a building or
structure taking place during a one-year period, the cumulative cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building or structure before
the improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the one-
year period begins on the date of the first permit issued for improvement or
repair of that building or structure subsequent to May 11, 2016. If the
structure has incurred "substantial damage," any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include either
      (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
Modify Section 1612 by adding the following, with all changes shown being
relative to the original Florida Building Code language rather than any prior
technical amendment by the City:
   1612.4.3 Additional requirements for enclosed areas. In addition to the
requirements of ASCE 24, enclosed areas below the design flood elevation shall
not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms except for stairwells,
ramps, and elevators, unless required by the fire code.
   1612.4.4 Elevation requirements. In special flood hazard areas except for
the 0.2% (500-year) flood hazard areas (shaded Zone X), the minimum elevation
requirements shall be as specified in ASCE 24 or the base flood elevation plus
1.5 feet (457.2 mm), whichever is higher. Seaward of the coastal construction
control line, the minimum elevation requirement shall be as specified in ASCE
24, Section 3109, or buildings and structures shall be elevated so that the
bottom of the lowest horizontal structure members supporting the lowest floor,
with the exception of pilings. pile caps, columns, grade beams and bracing, is
elevated to or above the base flood elevation plus 1.5 feet (457.2 mm),
whichever is higher.
   E.   Technical amendments to the Florida Building Code, Existing Building.
Modify Section 202 by amending the following definitions, with all changes
shown being relative to the original Florida Building Code language rather than
any prior technical amendment by the City:
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. For the purpose of determining compliance with the flood
provisions of this code, damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the building or structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the building or structure
before the damage occurred. The term also includes flood-related damage
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on average,
equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. For the purpose of determining compliance with the
flood provisions of this code, any combination of repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, alteration, addition, or other improvement of a building or
structure taking place during a one-year period, the cumulative cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building or structure before
the improvement or repair is started. For each building or structure, the one-
year period begins on the date of the first permit issued for improvement or
repair of that building or structure subsequent to May 11, 2016. If the
structure has incurred "substantial damage," any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include either
      (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided the alteration will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.09   Subdivisions
   A.   Minimum requirements.
Subdivision proposals, including proposals for manufactured home parks and
subdivisions, shall be reviewed to determine that:
      1.   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   B.   Subdivision plats.
Where any portion of proposed subdivisions, including manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, lies within a flood hazard area, the following shall be
required:
      1.   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zones, and design flood elevations, as appropriate, shall be shown on
preliminary plats;
      2.   Where the subdivision has more than fifty (50) lots or is larger
than five (5) acres and base flood elevations are not included on the FIRM, the
base flood elevations determined in accordance with Section
4.05.04, subparagraph B.1.; and
      3.   Compliance with the site improvement and utilities requirements of
Section
4.05.10.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.10   Site Improvements, Utilities and Limitations
   A.   New development.
      All proposed new development shall be reviewed to determine that:
      1.   Such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
and will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      2.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electric,
communications, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   B.   Sanitary sewage facilities.
All new and replacement sanitary sewage facilities, private sewage treatment
plants (including all pumping stations and collector systems), and on-site
waste disposal systems shall be designed in accordance with the standards for
onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems in Chapter 64E-6, F.A.C. and ASCE
24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
facilities and discharge from the facilities into flood waters, and impairment
of the facilities and systems.
   C.   Water supply facilities.
All new and replacement water supply facilities shall be designed in accordance
with the water well construction standards in Chapter 62-532.500, F.A.C. and
ASCE 24 Chapter 7 to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
   D.   Limitations on sites in regulatory floodways.
No development, including but not limited to site improvements, and land
disturbing activity involving fill or regrading, shall be authorized in the
regulatory floodway unless the floodway encroachment analysis required in
Section
4.05.04, subparagraph C.1. demonstrates that the proposed development or land
disturbing activity will not result in any increase in the base flood
elevation.
   E.   Limitations on placement of fill.
      Subject to the limitations of this chapter:
      1.   Fill shall be designed to be stable under conditions of flooding
including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwaters, prolonged inundation,
and protection against flood-related erosion and scour.
      2.   If intended to support buildings and structures (Zone A/AE only),
fill shall comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code.
      3.   Compensatory storage (excavation) shall be provided based on a
volume for volume basis when fill is placed in flood hazard areas landward of
the coastal construction control line, including two-tenths of one percent
(0.2%) (500-year) flood hazard areas (shaded Zone X), above the normal high
groundwater table elevation and below the base flood elevation. The first
twelve (12) inches of fill placed above the historic, natural elevation of the
parcel is exempt from this requirement. In addition, the fill contained within
a stem wall foundation built in compliance with the Florida Building Code is
exempt from this requirement. The Floodplain Administrator may reduce or waive
the compensatory fill requirement based on site specific conditions and local
drainage that demonstrate that the development will have no more than a minimal
effect on floodwater storage and will not divert floodwaters onto adjacent
property.
   F.   Limitations on sites in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
In coastal high hazard areas, alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands
shall be permitted only if such alteration is approved by the Florida
Department of Environmental Protection and only if the engineering analysis
required by Section
4.05.04, subparagraph C.4. demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not
increase the potential for flood damage. Construction or restoration of dunes
under or around elevated buildings and structures shall comply with Section
4.05.14, subparagraph H.3.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.11   Manufactured Homes
   A.   Installation.
All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas shall be installed by an
installer that is licensed pursuant to F.S. § 320.8249, and shall comply with
the requirements of Chapter 15C-l, F.A.C. and the requirements of this section.
If located seaward of the coastal construction control line, all manufactured
homes shall comply with the more restrictive of the applicable requirements.
   B.   Limitations on installation in floodways.
New installations of manufactured homes shall not be permitted in floodways.
   C.   Foundations.
All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured homes installed in
flood hazard areas shall be installed on permanent, reinforced foundations
that:
      1.   In flood hazard areas (Zone A/AE) other than coastal high hazard
areas, are designed in accordance with the foundation requirements of the
Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 and this chapter. Foundations
for manufactured homes subject to paragraph G. of this section are permitted to
be reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent
strength.
      2.   In coastal high hazard areas (Zone V), are designed in accordance
with the foundation requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential
Section R322.3 and this chapter.
   D.   Anchoring.
All new manufactured homes and replacement manufactured homes shall be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage and shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring include, but are
not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
anchoring requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for wind resistance.
   E.   Elevation.
Manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or substantially improved shall
comply with paragraph F. or paragraph G. of this section, as applicable.
   F.   General elevation requirement.
Unless subject to the requirements of paragraph G. of this section, all
manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or substantially improved on
sites located: (a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; (b) in a
new manufactured home park or subdivision; (c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or (d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial
damage" as the result of a flood, shall be elevated such that the bottom of the
frame is at or above the elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard
area, in the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A/AE) or
Section R322.3 (Zone V).
   G.   Elevation requirement for certain existing manufactured home parks and
subdivisions.
Manufactured homes that are not subject to paragraph F. of this section,
including manufactured homes that are placed, replaced, or substantially
improved on sites located in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
unless on a site where substantial damage as result of flooding has occurred,
shall be elevated such that either the:
      1.   Bottom of the frame of the manufactured home is at or above the
elevation required, as applicable to the flood hazard area, in the Florida
Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 (Zone A/AE) or Section R322.3 (Zone
V); or
      2.   Bottom of the frame is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are not less than
forty-eight (48) inches in height above grade.
   H.   Enclosures.
Enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes shall comply with the
requirements of the Florida Building Code, Residential Section R322.2 or R322.3
for such enclosed areas, as applicable to the flood hazard area.
   I.   Utility equipment.
Utility equipment that serves manufactured homes, including electric, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities, shall comply with the requirements of the Florida Building Code,
Residential Section R322, as applicable to the flood hazard area.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.12   Recreational Vehicles and Park Trailers
   A.   Temporary placement.
Recreational vehicles and park trailers placed temporarily in flood hazard
areas shall have a plan for removal in case of a threat at least four (4) hours
prior to the arrival of the threat and shall:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; or
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which means the
recreational vehicle or park model is on wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanent attachments such as additions, rooms, stairs, decks and
porches.
   B.   Limitations on placement in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
Limitations on placement in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V). New placement
of recreational vehicles shall not be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
(Zone V).
   C.   Permanent placement.
Recreational vehicles and park trailers that do not meet the limitations in
paragraph B. of this section for temporary placement shall meet the
requirements of Section
4.05.11 for manufactured homes.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.13   Tanks
   A.   Underground tanks.
Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads
during conditions of the design flood, including the effects of buoyancy
assuming the tank is empty.
   B.   Above-ground tanks, not elevated.
Above-ground tanks that do not meet the elevation requirements of paragraph C.
of this section shall:
      1.   Be permitted in flood hazard areas (Zone A/AE) other than coastal
high hazard areas, provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and
constructed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of
flood-borne debris.
      2.   Not be permitted in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
   C.   Above-ground tanks, elevated.
Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be attached to and elevated to
or above the design flood elevation on a supporting structure that is designed
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during conditions of the
design flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the foundation requirements
of the applicable flood hazard area.
   D.   Tanks inlets and vents.
      Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
      1.   At or above the design flood elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
      2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the
design flood.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
   4.05.14   Other Development
   A.   General requirements for other development.
All development, including man-made changes to improved or unimproved real
estate for which specific provisions are not specified in this section or the
Florida Building Code, shall:
      1.   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      2.   Meet the limitations of Section
4.05.10, paragraph D. if located in a regulated floodway;
      3.   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood;
      4.   Be constructed of flood damage-resistant materials; and
      5.   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the design
flood elevation or meet the requirements of ASCE 24, except that minimum
electric service required to address life safety and electric code requirements
is permitted below the design flood elevation provided it conforms to the
provisions of the electrical part of building code for wet locations.
   B.   Fences in regulated floodways.
Fences in regulated floodways that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, shall meet the
limitations of Section
4.05.10, paragraph D.
   C.   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways.
Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of fill
in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of Section
4.05.10, paragraph D.
   D.   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one (1)
side of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of Section
4.05.10, paragraph D. Alteration of a watercourse that is part of a road or
watercourse crossing shall meet the requirements of Section
4.05.04, subparagraph C.3.
   E.   Concrete slabs.
In coastal high hazard areas, concrete slabs used as parking pads, enclosure
floors, landings, decks, walkways, patios and similar nonstructural uses are
permitted beneath or adjacent to buildings and structures provided the concrete
slabs are designed and constructed to be:
      1.   Structurally independent of the foundation system of the building or
structure;
      2.   Frangible and not reinforced, so as to minimize debris during
flooding that is capable of causing significant damage to any structure; and
      3.   Have a maximum slab thickness of not more than four (4) inches.
   F.   Decks and patios in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
In addition to the requirements of the Florida Building Code, in coastal high
hazard areas decks and patios shall be located, designed, and constructed in
compliance with the following:
      1.   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure
shall have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above
the design flood elevation and any supporting members that extend below the
design flood elevation shall comply with the foundation requirements that apply
to the building or structure, which shall be designed to accommodate any
increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
      2.   A deck or patio that is located below the design flood elevation
shall be structurally independent from buildings or structures and their
foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed either to remain
intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart into small
pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing structural
damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      3.   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of more than twelve
(12) inches or that is constructed with more than the minimum amount of fill
necessary for site drainage shall not be approved unless an analysis prepared
by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no harmful diversion
of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase damage to
the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and structures.
      4.   A deck or patio that has a vertical thickness of twelve (12) inches
or less and that is at natural grade or on nonstructural fill material that is
similar to and compatible with local soils and is the minimum amount necessary
for site drainage may be approved without requiring analysis of the impact on
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection.
   G.   Other development in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than buildings and
structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the appropriate
federal, state or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and not
structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses prepared by
qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful diversion of
floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase damage to
adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities include
but are not limited to:
      1.   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      2.   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping debris,
unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less than the
design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of floodwaters; and
      3.   On-site sewage treatment and disposal systems defined in 64E-6.002,
F.A.C., as filled systems or mound systems.
   H.   Nonstructural fill in coastal high hazard areas (Zone V).
      In coastal high hazard areas:
      1.   Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of nonstructural
fill shall be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes under and
around buildings.
      2.   Nonstructural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than one
(1) unit vertical to five (5) units horizontal shall be permitted only if an
analysis prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no
harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would
increase damage to adjacent buildings and structures.
      3.   Where authorized by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection or applicable local approval, sand dune construction and restoration
of sand dunes under or around elevated buildings are permitted without
additional engineering analysis or certification of the diversion of floodwater
or wave runup and wave reflection if the scale and location of the dune work is
consistent with local beach-dune morphology and the vertical clearance is
maintained between the top of the sand dune and the lowest horizontal
structural member of the building.
(Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Ord. 757, passed 12-18-2020)
4.06.00   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
   4.06.01   Intent
The discharge of untreated and uncontrolled stormwater can reasonably be
expected to be a source of pollution to waters of the State, and a direct cause
of flooding causing risk of harm to life and property. It is the intent of the
City to minimize adverse impacts of pollution and flooding through regulation
of stormwater discharges caused by land development.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   4.06.02   General Requirements
   A.   All residential properties and properties that are exempted from
installing a stormwater management facility under paragraph B. shall be graded
so that the property drains towards a permanent storm drainage structure,
street or permanent body of water prior to construction of improvements
thereon, in order to eliminate flooding due to sudden and heavy rainfall. If
runoff cannot be directly conveyed to a permanent City drainage structure,
street or permanent body of water without crossing another property, a
permanent easement must be recorded by the crossing property owner to ensure
conveyance is maintained. If the project includes gutters and downspouts which
are connected directly into permanent City stormwater collection system
(without surface discharge) or which drain to an onsite infiltration system
(such as a French drain, etc.), then the development may be exempted from the
above requirements regarding runoff, provided existing (pre-developed) drainage
patterns are not altered and no new discharge onto adjacent properties is
created. All direct connections to the City stormwater system must be
coordinated with the City during the Development Order process.
   B.   Development activity not exempted by F.A.C. 62-330.020 for regulated
activities (development which exceeds nine thousand (9,000) square feet of
building space combined with four thousand (4,000) square feet of parking/drive
areas) shall be required to install a stormwater management facility. For
aesthetic reasons and to increase shoreline habitat, the shorelines of
retention areas shall be sinuous rather than straight.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 719, passed 5-28-2019; Am. Ord. 720,
passed 5-28-2019)
   4.06.03   General Criteria
   A.   Water Quality
Stormwater management facilities shall be designed to water quality criteria
per the most current issue of the Northwest Florida Water Management District
Environmental Resources Applicants' Handbook Vol II.
   B.   Water Quantity
For stormwater attenuation stormwater facilities shall be designed such that
post development runoff shall not exceed predevelopment runoff for the 25-year,
24-hour storm event. Stormwater management facilities shall be designed and
constructed per the most current issue of the Northwest Florida Water
Management District Environmental Resources Applicants' Handbook Vol II.
   C.   The Stormwater management facility design must be certified by a
registered professional engineer and include calculations of maximum runoff,
water quality treatment, and best management practices for erosion and
sedimentation control. The stormwater management facility shall be designed to
accommodate the stormwater that originates within the development. The
stormwater facility shall not be required to attenuate or treat off-site
runoff, provided offsite runoff may be conveyed around the stormwater facility.
In no case shall off-site runoff be impeded.
   D.   For all development, grading, filling, excavation, storage, or disposal
of soil and earth materials associated with development activities shall be
undertaken so as to reduce the potential for soil erosion and sedimentation of
water bodies or drainage ways. For some developments, the City may require an
erosion and sediment control plan.
   E.   The developer or owner shall use swale drainage to the maximum extent
possible, except where it is physically unfeasible as determined by the Public
Works Director. If feasible, perforated pipe shall be used within the swale for
infiltration purposes in situations where piping is necessary.
   F.   For development landward of the Coastal Construction Control Line
(CCCL) outside the 100/500-year flood plain as indicated on the best available
FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map, finish floor shall be set to one (1) foot above
the crown of the road or access roads directly adjacent to the property. If
there is more than one (1) road adjacent to the property, then the road with
the highest elevation shall be used. For development landward of the CCCL
within Zones AE, VE, or X, the elevation requirements from Section
4.05.00, et seq., including the City's Technical Amendments to The Florida
Building Code must be followed. For development seaward of the CCCL, finish
floor shall be set to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection
requirement. An administrative variance may be granted to the requirement for
elevation above the street where the applicant demonstrates that the natural
lay of the land provides adequate drainage away from the street and the
proposed structure will be one (1) foot above the highest adjacent grade.
   G.   Stormwater management systems shall be designed for ease of maintenance
and operations and low maintenance costs. It is suggested that the required
stormwater system be integrated into a site's open areas and landscaping and
that they be used as recreational park areas. They system should be constructed
in such a manner (i.e., gentle slopes, grassed, plantings, etc.) that it will
be an amenity to the development.
   H.   Projects that are to be developed in phases will require submission of
a master plan of the applicant's contiguous landholdings. Applications for
individual project phases may only be considered when the phases and the
stormwater systems are independent of contiguous landholdings or a regional
stormwater management facility is installed with the first phase of
development.
   I.   Violations. Any development that is not within the scope of the Florida
Building Code but that is regulated by this Section that is performed without
an issued permit, that is in conflict with an issued permit, or that does not
fully comply with this Section, shall be deemed a violation of this Section, in
addition to any other applicable law. A building or structure without the
documentation of elevation of the lowest floor, other required design
certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this Section or the
Florida Building Code is presumed not to be a violation until such time as that
documentation is provided. Violations will result in suspension or revocation
of the applicable development order, building permit, or both. In the event of
a violation in instances when no development order or building permit was
issued, the City will require all work to cease until the violation is
resolved. Civil Penalties shall be assessed for violations pursuant to the
procedures provided by Section
7.10.00. The civil penalty for a violation of this Section
4.06.00 shall be $100.00 if the violation occurs on a residential lot that is
being individually developed and $250.00 for all other types of development.
Penalties may increase or multiply pursuant to the Section
7.10.00 rules for repeat and continuing violations.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Am. Ord. 720, passed 5-28-2019)
ARTICLE V
SIGNS
5.00.00   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   5.00.01   Relationship To Building and Electrical Codes
These sign regulations are intended to complement the requirements of the
building and electrical codes adopted by the City. Wherever there is
inconsistency between these regulations and the building or electrical code,
the more stringent requirements shall apply.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.00.02   No Defense To Nuisance Action
Compliance with the requirements of these regulations shall not constitute a
defense to an action brought to abate a nuisance under the common law.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.00.03   Maintenance
All signs, including their supports, braces, guys and anchors, electrical parts
and lighting fixtures, and all painted and display areas, shall be maintained
in accordance with the building and electrical codes adopted by the City, and
shall present a neat and clean appearance. The vegetation around, in front of,
behind, and underneath the base of ground signs for a distance of ten (10) feet
shall be neatly trimmed and free of unsightly weeds, and no rubbish or debris
that would constitute a fire or health hazard shall be permitted under or near
the sign.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.00.04   Definitions
Accessory Sign:
A permanent ground or building sign that is permitted under this Code as
incidental to an existing or proposed use of land.
   Advertising:
Sign copy intended to directly or indirectly promote the sale or use of a
product, service, commodity, entertainment, or real or personal property.
   Abandoned Sign:
A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide business, leaser,
service, owner, product, or activity, or for which no legal owner can be found.
   Animated Sign:
Any sign which uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or to
create a special effect or scene.
   Awning:
A shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building
constructed of nonrigid materials on a supporting framework.
   Awning Sign:
A sign painted on, printed on, sewn, or attached against the surface of an
awning.
   Banner:
A sign on which copy or graphics may be displayed, made of paper, plastic,
fabric or any flexible, nonrigid material with no enclosing framework or
frames. For purposes of this ordinance, the term “banner” shall not be deemed
to include flexible sign face substrates, which are used as the enclosed face
on advertising signs using back illumination, consisting generally of a
polyester scrim embedded between two (2) layers of white pigmented vinyl
formulated to accepted opaque and translucent films, and meeting Federal
Standards #191-A (Textile Test Methods).
   Billboard:
      See “Off-premises sign”
   Building Sign:
A sign displayed upon or attached to any part of the exterior of a building,
including walls, windows, doors, parapets, marquees, and roof slopes of forty-
five (45) degrees or steeper. See Figure 5.00.04-A.
   Commercially Developed Parcel:
A parcel of property on which there is at least one (1) walled and roofed
structure used, or designed to be used, for other than residential or
agricultural purposes.
   Construction Sign:
A temporary sign identifying an architect, contractor, subcontractor, financial
institution, developer, or material supplier participating in construction on
the property on which the sign is located.
   Copy:
The linguistic or graphic content of a sign.
   Double-faced Sign:
      A sign with two (2) faces.
   Electric Sign:
      Any sign containing electric wiring.
   Erect a Sign:
To construct, reconstruct, build, relocate, raise, assemble, place, affix,
attach, create, paint, draw, or in any other way bring into being or establish;
but it shall not include any of the foregoing activities when performed as an
incident to the change of message, or routine maintenance.
   Facade:
      The entire building front including the parapet.
   Face of Sign:
      The area of the sign in which the copy is located.
   Festoons:
      A string of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, or pinwheels.
   Flags:
      A flexible, graphic device representing a government, business, or other
identifiable entity.
   Frontage:
      The length of the property line of any one (1) parcel along a street on
which it borders.
   Frontage, building:
      The length of an outside building wall facing a public right of way.
   Governmental Sign:
Any temporary, portable, or permanent sign erected and maintained by the city,
county, state, or federal government for traffic direction or for designation
of or direction to any school, hospital, historical site, or public service,
property, or facility; or used for any other public purpose.
   Ground Sign:
A sign that is supported by one (1) or more columns, upright poles, or braces
extended from the ground or from an object on the ground, or that is erected on
the ground, where no part of the sign is attached to any part of a building.
See Figure 5.00.01-B.
   Identification Sign:
A sign whose copy is limited to the name and address of a building,
institution, or person, activity or occupation being identified.
   Illegal Sign:
A sign which does not meet the requirements of this chapter and which has not
received legal nonconforming status.
   Illuminated Sign:
A sign which contains a source of light or which is designed or arranged to
reflect light from an artificial source including indirect lighting, neon,
incandescent lights, back-lighting, and shall also include signs with
reflectors that depend upon automobile headlights for an image.
   Incidental Sign:
A small sign, emblem, or decal, located on the window or wall of the building,
informing the public of goods, facilities, or services available on the
premises, e.g., a credit card sign or sign indicating the hours of business.
   Inflatable Sign:
A sign or Sign Statuary that is either expanded to its full dimensions or
supported by gases contained within the sign, or sign parts, at a pressure
greater than atmospheric pressure.
   Mansard:
A sloped roof or roof-like facade architecturally comparable to a building
wall.
   Marquee:
A structure projecting from and supported by a building which extends beyond
the building line or property line and fully or partially covers a sidewalk,
public entrance or other pedestrian way.
   Monument Sign:
A sign designed to be mounted on a concrete footing or similar support which
allows the base of the sign structure to be placed at grade level and not
supported by poles or attached to other structures.
   Multiple Occupancy Complex:
A commercial use, i.e. any use other than residential or agricultural,
consisting of a parcel of property, or parcel of contiguous properties,
existing as a unified or coordinated project, with a building or buildings
housing more than one (1) occupant.
   Nonconforming Sign:
Any sign within the City on the effective date of this Code (or a sign existing
within any area annexed to the City after the effective date of this Code)
which is prohibited by, or does not conform to the requirements of, this Code;
except signs that are within ten percent (10%) of the height and size
limitations of this Code, and that in all other respects conform to the
requirements of this Code, shall be deemed in conformity with this Code.
   Occupant:
Also referred to as occupancy. A commercial use, i.e. any use other than
residential or agricultural.
   Off-premises Sign:
A sign structure advertising an establishment, merchandise, service, or
entertainment, which is not sold, produced, manufactured, or furnished at the
property on which said sign is located, e.g., “billboards” or “outdoor
advertising”.
   Outdoor Advertising Sign:
A permanent ground sign supported by a post, or posts, attached to which is a
sign face intended to directly or indirectly promote the sale or use of a
product, commodity, entertainment, real or personal property, or a service.
   Owner:
The record owner of the property. For the purposes hereof, the owner of
property on which a sign is located is presumed to be the owner of the sign
unless facts to the contrary are officially recorded or otherwise brought to
the attention of the city, e.g., a sign leased from a sign company.
   Parapet:
      The extension of a false front or wall above a roofline.
   Parcel:
A unit of land within legally established property lines. If, however, the
property lines are such as to defeat the purposes of this Code or lead to
absurd results, a “parcel” may be as designated for a particular site by the
Board.
   Permanent:
      Designed, constructed, and intended for more than a short time.
   Plaza Sign:
An on-premises sign of a facility which is a multiple occupancy complex for
more than one (1) business, consisting of a parcel of property, or parcel of
contiguous properties, existing as a unified or coordinated project, with a
building or buildings housing more than one (1) occupant.
   Point of Purchase Display:
Advertising of a retail item on the product display, e.g., an advertisement on
a product dispenser.
   Political Sign:
For the purposes of this ordinance, a temporary sign used in connection with a
local, state, or national election or referendum.
   Portable Sign:
Any sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently affixed to the ground
or to a structure or building, not including portable governmental signs.
   Projecting Sign:
A sign, other than a flat wall sign, which is attached to and projects from a
building wall or other structure not specifically designed to support the sign.
   Real Estate Sign:
A temporary sign advertising the real estate upon which the sign is located as
being for rent, lease, or sale.
   Roof Line:
A horizontal line intersecting the highest point or points of a roof.
   Roof Sign:
A sign placed above the roof line of a building or on or against a roof slope
of less than forty-five (45) degrees.
   Sandwich Sign:
Also referred to as a “sandwich board sign.” Signboard consisting of two (2)
hinged boards that hang front and back from the shoulders of a walker and are
used to display advertisements; these signs are not secured or attached to the
ground or any building or structure and displayed in or proximate to areas of
pedestrian traffic.
   Sign:
Any writing, pictorial presentation, number, illustration, or decoration, flag,
banner or pennant, or other device which is used to announce, direct attention
to, identify, advertise, or otherwise make anything known. The term “sign”
shall not be deemed to include the terms “building” or “landscaping” or any
architectural embellishment of a building not intended to communicate
information.
   Sign Face:
      The part of a sign that is or may be used for copy.
   Sign Face Area:
The area of any regular geometric shape which contains the entire surface area
of a sign upon which copy may be placed.
   Sign Structure:
      Any construction used or designed to support a sign.
   Snipe Sign:
Any temporary, unpermitted sign, banner, or poster made of any material,
including paper, cardboard, wood, and metal, when such sign is tacked, nailed,
posted, pasted, glued, or otherwise attached to trees, telephone poles, fences,
conventional sign pole(s), pedestal, other similar object, or having wire legs
located or situated on public or private property. Snipe signs shall not
include “posted property” signs.
   Street:
A public or private right of way for vehicular traffic, including highways,
thoroughfares, lanes, roads, ways, and boulevards.
   Temporary:
      Designed, constructed, and intended to be used on a short-term basis.
   Total Sign Area:
Unless otherwise qualified, e.g. square footage “per face,” any reference in
this chapter to “sign area” or to a square footage without more, shall mean
total square footage of all faces for the sign.
   Under-canopy Sign:
A sign suspended beneath a canopy, ceiling, roof, or marquee.
   Unit:
      That part of a multiple occupancy complex housing one (1) occupant.
   Vehicle Sign:
      Any sign affixed to a vehicle.
   Wall Sign:
A sign attached parallel to and extending not more than twelve (12) inches from
the wall of a building; this definition includes painted, individual letter,
and cabinet signs, and signs on a mansard.
   Window sign:
      A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed from outside.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.01.00   EXEMPT SIGNS
The following signs are exempt from the enforcement of these sign regulations,
and from the requirement in this Code that a permit be obtained for the
erection of permanent signs, provided they are not placed or constructed so as
to create a hazard of any kind:
   A.   Signs that are not designed or located so as to be visible from any
street or adjoining property.
   B.   Signs of two (2) square feet or less and signs that include no letters,
symbols, logos, or designs in excess of two (2) inches in vertical or
horizontal dimension, provided that such sign, or combination of such signs,
does not constitute a sign prohibited by Section
5.02.02 of this Code.
   C.   Signs necessary to promote health, safety and welfare, and other
regulatory, statutory, traffic control or directional signs erected on public
property with permission as appropriate from the State of Florida, the United
States, Bay County, or the City of Mexico Beach.
   D.   Legal notices and official instruments.
   E.   Decorative flags and bunting for a celebration, convention, or
commemoration of significance to the entire community when authorized by the
City Commission for a prescribed period of time.
   F.   Holiday lights and decorations.
   G.   Flags, emblems, or insignias of the United States, State of Florida,
Bay County, or the City of Mexico Beach.
   H.   Signs incorporated into machinery or equipment by a manufacturer or
distributor, which identify or advertise only the product or service dispensed
by the machine or equipment, such as signs customarily affixed to vending
machines, newspaper racks, telephone booths, and gasoline pumps.
   I.   Advertising and identifying signs located on taxicabs, buses, trailers,
trucks, or vehicle bumpers. Except for signs identified in Paragraph 5.02.02,
Subparagraph “V”.
   J.   Public warning signs to indicate the dangers of trespassing, swimming,
animals, or similar hazards.
   K.   Strings of light bulbs used on commercially developed parcels for
commercial purposes, other than traditional holiday decorations.
   L.   Religious displays.
   M.   Sandwich/Sandwich Board Signs with a sign face of four (4) square feet
or less. Sandwich signs shall be in good taste, located on private property,
and with a minimum distance of twenty (20) feet between consecutive signs.
There shall be a maximum of two (2) sandwich signs per parcel and/or business.
   N.   Under canopy signs which shall be limited to two (2) per occupancy and
no more than four (4) square feet per sign.
   O.   Signs, commonly referred to as “wind signs,” consisting of one (1) or
more pennants, ribbons, spinners, streamers, captive balloons, or other objects
or material fastened in such a manner as to move upon being subjected to
pressure by wind and determined to be in good taste by the Planning and Zoning
Board.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.02.00   PROHIBITED SIGNS
   5.02.01   Generally
It shall be unlawful to erect, cause to be erected, maintain or cause to be
maintained, any sign not expressly authorized by, or exempted from, this Code.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.02.02   Specifically
The following signs are expressly prohibited unless exempted by Part 5.01.00 of
this Code or expressly authorized by Part 5.03.00 or Part 5.04.00 of this Code:
   A.   Signs that are in violation of the building code or electrical code
adopted by the City.
   B.   Any sign that, in the opinion of the Board, does or will constitute a
safety hazard.
   C.   Blank temporary signs.
   D.   Signs with visible moving, revolving, or rotating parts or visible
mechanical movement of any description or other apparent visible movement
achieved by electrical, electronic, or mechanical means, except for traditional
barber poles.
   E.   Signs with the optical illusion of movement by means of a design that
presents a pattern capable of giving the illusion of motion or changing of
copy.
   F.   Signs with lights or illuminations that flash, move, rotate,
scintillate, blink, flicker, or vary in intensity or color except for time/
temperature/date signs.
   G.   Signs carried by a person for the purpose of advertising.
   H.   Banners, except for temporary banners as authorized in Section
5.03.05, subsection “F”, of this Code.
   I.   Inflatable signs.
   J.   Signs that incorporate projected images emit any sound that is intended
to attract attention, or involve the use of live animals.
   K.   Signs or sign structures that interfere in any way with free use of any
fire escape, emergency exit, or standpipe, or that obstruct any window to such
an extent that light or ventilation is reduced to a point below that required
by any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the City.
   L.   Signs that emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter such as smoke or
steam.
   M.   Signs that resemble any official sign or marker erected by any
governmental agency, or that by reason of position, shape or color, would
conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign or signal, or be of a
size, location, movement, content, color, or illumination that may be
reasonable confused with or construed as, or conceal, a traffic control device.
   N.   Signs that obstruct the vision of pedestrians, cyclists, or motorists
traveling on or entering public streets.
   O.   Non-governmental signs that use the words “stop,” “look,” “danger,” or
any similar work, phrase, or symbol.
   P.   Signs that are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or
impair the vision of any motorist, cyclist, or pedestrian using or entering a
public way, or that are a hazard or a nuisance to occupants of any property
because of glare or other characteristics.
   Q.   Searchlights used to advertise or promote a business or to attract
customers to a property.
   R.   Signs that are painted, pasted, or printed on any curbstone, flagstone,
pavement, or any portion of any sidewalk or street, except house numbers and
traffic control signs.
   S.   Signs placed upon benches, bus shelters, or waste receptacles, except
as may be authorized in writing pursuant to F.S. § 337.407.
   T.   Signs erected on public property, or on private property (such as
private utility poles) located on public property, other than signs erected by
a public authority for public purposes.
   U.   Signs erected over or across any public street except as may otherwise
be expressly authorized by this Code, and except governmental signs erected by
or on the order of a public officer.
   V.   All off-premise outdoor advertising signs, except the City-controlled
sign at Canal Park.
   W.   No person or business shall operate or park any vehicle or trailer in a
non-designated parking spot/lot on public right of way or public property so as
to be visible from the public right of way, which has attached thereto or
located thereon any sign or advertising device for the primary purpose of
advertisement of products or directing people to a business or activity located
on the same or nearby property or any other premises.
   X.   Any sign erected or displayed in any fresh water wetlands or salt marsh
areas subject to periodic inundation by tidal saltwater.
   Y.   Portable signs.
   Z.   Snipe signs.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.02.03   Appeals
The right to use prohibited signs shall neither be appealable nor subject to a
request for variance from the Planning and Zoning Board or the City Commission.
Notwithstanding the City Council’s ability and sole discretion to amend this
Code, relief from this Code and its requirements may only be sought through a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.03.00   PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS
   5.03.01   Where Allowed
Temporary signs are allowed throughout the City, subject to the restrictions
imposed by this section and other parts of this Code.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.03.02   Sign Types Allowed
A temporary sign may be a ground or building sign but may not be an electric
sign.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.03.03   Permits
Temporary signs as defined in this Code shall not require a permit from the
City.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.03.04   Removal of Illegal Temporary Signs
Any temporary sign not complying with the requirements of this section is
illegal and subject to immediate removal. The City Administrator or his
designee shall have the authority to remove all illegal signs, without notice
to the owners thereof, prohibited by this Code, and to impound them for a
period of thirty (30) days. The owner or person entitled to possession of a
sign impounded may recover any impounded sign prior to the expiration of the
thirty (30)-day impoundment period upon the payment to the City of the costs
incurred in the impounding of such sign, including attorney’s fees and any
applicable fines. In the event any impounded sign is not claimed within thirty
(30) days, the City Administrator, or his designee, may dispose of the sign in
the same manner as surplus or abandoned City property.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.03.05   Permissible Temporary Signs
A temporary sign may display any message as long as it is not advertising as
defined by this Code, except that advertising for the following purposes may be
displayed:
   A.   To indicate that an owner, either personally or through an agent, is
actively attempting to sell, rent or lease the property on which the sign is
located; provided that if the property is for lease or rent such sign shall be
attached or affixed to the building or structure and shall not be staked or
placed into the ground. Temporary real estate signs advertising the lease or
rental of property shall not exceed two (2) signs per unit and each individual
rental sign shall not exceed a total of four (4) square feet. Property which is
for sale is covered under Section
5.03.06 of this Code.
   B.   To indicate the grand opening of a business or other activity. Such
message may be displayed for a period not exceeding fourteen (14) days within
the first three (3) months that the occupancy is open for business.
   C.   To identify construction in progress. Such signs shall be thirty-two
(32) square feet or less and any construction sign shall not be displayed more
than sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of actual construction of the
project, and shall be removed immediately upon receiving a Certificate of
Occupancy (CO). If a message is displayed pursuant to this section, but
construction is not initiated within sixty (60) days, the sign shall be
removed, pending initiation or continuation of construction activities.
   D.   To indicate the existence of a new business, or a business in a new
location, if such business has no permanent signs. Such message may be
displayed for a period of not more than sixty (60) days or until installation
of permanent signs, whichever shall occur first.
   E.   To announce or advertise such temporary uses as fairs, carnivals,
circuses, revivals, sporting events, flea markets, or any public, charitable,
educational, or religious event or function. Such message shall be removed
within five (5) days after the special event.
   F.   Upon written application to, and approval by, the City, a temporary
banner may be erected in the City only under the following terms and
conditions:
      1.   A temporary banner covering a sign in a business district which has
been damaged by windstorm or other casualty, provided such banner is displayed
for not more than the forty-five (45)-day period following such windstorm or
casualty; and
      2.   During a special event, a temporary banner not exceeding thirty-two
(32) square feet may be approved for use. Any banner approved for a special
event must be one-sided, located entirely against a solid structure or sign,
and stretched tight and securely fastened at each corner or edge. All such
banners shall be permitted for a maximum length of time of two (2) weeks.
   G.   Wind signs may be permitted for as long as they are displayed in good
taste and in a nonexcessive manner. Upon determination by the City
Administrator, the City can order the removal of such wind signs determined to
be excessive or egregious in their display.
   H.   Political Signs. Political Signs are defined as any sign that requires
a political disclaimer under F.S. Chapter 106. Political Signs must meet the
following standards.
      1.   Placement. Signs shall be placed on private property only and with
the permission of the property owner. The signs may be placed back-to-back, or
single face, but multiple signs of the same candidate shall not be placed
within ten (10) feet of one another, regardless of size.
      2.   Dimensions. Political signs shall not exceed eight (8) square feet
per sign face and shall not exceed five (5) feet in sign height measured from
the aggregate grade.
      3.   Timelines for placement. All political signs shall not be displayed
prior to ninety (90) days before the date of any election and shall be removed
within ten (10) days following the end of any election cycle. If a primary or
run off exists, only candidates or issues advancing will be allowed to continue
sign placement.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.03.06   Permissible Size, Height, and Number of Temporary Signs
   A.   One-Family and Two-Family Residences/Businesses:
A parcel on which is located a single one-family or two-family residence or
business may display not more than two (2) temporary signs indicating the sale
of such property with an aggregate sign area of not more than eight (8) square
feet per unit. No individual sign for the sale of the property shall exceed six
(6) square feet nor exceed six (6) feet in height.
   B.   Three-Family and Four-Family Residences/Businesses:
A parcel on which is located a single three-family or four-family residence or
business may display not more than two (2) temporary signs per individual unit
indicating the sale of such property with an aggregate sign area of not more
than eight (8) square feet per unit. No individual sign for the sale of such
property shall exceed six (6) square feet nor exceed six (6) feet in height.
   C.   On All Other Parcels:
      1.   All other parcels may display one (1) square foot of temporary
signage for the sale of such property per ten (10) feet of frontage up to a
maximum of forty-eight (48) square feet of total signage. No individual sign
shall exceed twelve (12) square feet nor exceed eight (8) feet in height. Signs
must be spaced at least one hundred (100) feet apart. All parcels shall be
permitted a minimum of six (6) square feet of temporary signage indicating it
is for sale.
      2.   “Display Signs’ shall be defined as signage for the sale of five (5)
or more residential or commercial units while under construction or thereafter,
including single-family and multi-family residential and commercial units, and
shall be limited to no more than two (2) signs per property or project with an
aggregate sign area of sixty-four (64) square feet. No such individual sign for
the sale of such property shall exceed eight (8) feet in height. These display
signs shall be erected in place of and not in addition to the signs described
above in section C.1. Should four (4) or fewer units of a larger multi-unit
project be placed on the market for sale, see the above sections A. and B. as
applicable.
      3.   All signs erected under this section shall conform to the Florida
Building Code and certification of compliance by a state licensed engineer or
architect may be required by the City or its designated building agent or City
Administrator.
   D.   All other signage requirements for dwellings or parcels that are for
sale which are not directly covered by these above sections shall be determined
in the sole discretion of the City Administrator applying these above sections
in a fair and equitable manner.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.04.00   PERMITTED PERMANENT ACCESSORY SIGNS
   5.04.01   Sign Types Allowed
A permanent accessory sign may be a ground or building sign or a work of art
placed with the intention of advertising a commercial establishment or entity.
A permanent accessory sign may not be a roof sign.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.04.02   Permissible Number, Area, Spacing, and Height of Permanent
Accessory Signs
   A.   Ground Signs:
The permissible number, area, spacing, and height of permanent accessory ground
signs for each multiple occupancy complex and each occupant not located in a
multiple occupancy complex shall be determined according to the following
tables and text:
PERMISSIBLE GROUND SIGNS
Frontage on a                 Total Sign Area Minimum Distance
Public Right- Number of Signs Allowed (in     from any Side    Maximum Height
of-Way        Allowed         square feet)    Property Line    (in feet)
(in feet)                                     (in feet)
PERMISSIBLE GROUND SIGNS
Frontage on a                                   Minimum
Public Right-   Number of Signs Total Sign Area Distance from  Maximum Height
of-Way          Allowed         Allowed (in     any Side       (in feet)
(in feet)                       square feet)    Property Line
                                                (in feet)
Less than 50    1               24              10             18
At least 50 but 1               48              15             18
less than 100
At least 100
but less than   1               64              20             18
200
At least 200
but less than   1               96              50             18
300
At least 300
but less than   2               128             50             18
400
400 or more     2               192             50             18
 
   B.   Building Signs
      1.   Subject to the design criteria in Part 5.07.00 of this Article, the
maximum height of a building sign shall be eighteen (18) feet, except that on a
building of more than two (2) stories, a single building sign is allowed above
eighteen (18) feet on each side of the building.
      2.   Each multiple occupancy complex may display one (1) permanent
accessory building sign on each side of the principal building or buildings in
which the complex is located, not to exceed a sign area of up to ten percent
(10%) of the facade area (see Part 5.06.00, Measurement Determinations) of each
building side or two hundred (200) square feet, whichever is smaller.
      3.   Each occupant of a multiple occupancy complex may display three (3)
permanent accessory building signs on any exterior portion of the complex that
is part of the occupant’s unit (not including a common or jointly owned area),
not to exceed a total combined sign area of fifteen percent (15%) of the facade
area (see part 5.06.00, Measurement Determinations) of such exterior portion or
two hundred (200) feet, whichever is smaller.
      4.   Each occupant not located in a multiple occupancy complex may
display three (3) permanent accessory building signs on each side of the
principal building in which the occupancy is located, not to exceed a total
combined sign area for each building side of twenty percent (20%) of the facade
area (see Part 5.06.00, Measurement Determinations) of the building side or two
hundred (200) square feet, whichever is smaller.
   C.   Multiple Frontages.
If a building has frontage on two (2) or more streets, each frontage shall be
separately considered for the purposes of determining compliance with the
provisions of these regulations, but the permitted sign area for one (1)
frontage may not be combined with that permitted on another frontage to
increase the permitted sign area on one (1) frontage. However, no ground sign
on one (1) right of way may be closer than one hundred (100) feet to a sign on
another right of way, measured as the sum of distances measured continuously
along the rights of way through a common point or points.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.04.03   Time/Temperature/Date Signs
Time/Temperature/Date signs are permitted as a permanent accessory sign on
commercially developed parcels notwithstanding the general prohibition on
changing signs. These signs may only display numerical information in an easily
comprehensible way and shall be kept accurate. They may be ground or building
signs and are subject to the regulations applicable to such signs. They shall
be counted as part of an occupancy’s allowable sign area.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.04.04   Directional Signs
Directional signs are limited in area to four (4) square feet, giving
directions to motorists regarding the location of parking areas and access
drives shall be permitted as permanent accessory signs on all parcels and shall
not be counted as part of occupancy’s allowable sign area.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.04.05   Signs at Entrances to Residential Developments
   A.   Generally
A permanent accessory sign may be displayed at the entrance to residential
developments.
   B.   Restrictions
      1.   One (1) sign is permitted at only one (1) entrance into the
development from each abutting street. The sign may be a single sign with two
(2) faces of equal size or may be two (2) single-faced structures of equal size
located on each side of the entrance. No face of the sign shall exceed thirty-
two (32) square feet in size and may be illuminated with a steady light only.
      2.   When considering the placement of such signs, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall consider the location of public utilities, sidewalks, and
future street widening.
      3.   The Planning and Zoning Board shall ensure that such signs shall be
maintained perpetually by the developer, the owner of the sign, a pertinent
owners’ association, or some other person who is legally accountable under a
maintenance arrangement approved by the Board. If no accountable person accepts
legal responsibility to maintain the sign(s) and no other provision has been
made for the maintenance of them, the sign(s) shall be removed by the developer
or owner.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.04.06   Utility Signs
Public utility signs that identify the location of underground utility lines
and facilities, high voltage lines and facilities, and other utility facilities
and appurtenances are permitted so long as they do not exceed three (3) feet in
height, and so long as the sign face does not exceed one-half (1/2) square
foot.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.05.00   PERMITTED PERMANENT OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS
   5.05.01   Where Allowed
It is the purpose and intent of this section to prohibit permanent outdoor
advertising signs in order to maintain the aesthetic appearance of the City.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.05.02   Types Prohibited
All permanent outdoor advertising signs, as defined by this Code, are
prohibited.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.06.00   MEASUREMENT DETERMINATIONS
   5.06.01   Distance Between Signs
The minimum required distance between signs shall be measured along street
rights of way from the closest parts of any two (2) signs. See Figure 5.06.01-
A.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.06.02   Facade Area
The facade area shall be measured by determining the area within a two-
dimensional geometric figure coinciding with the edges of the walls, windows,
doors, parapets, marquees, and roof slopes of greater than forty-five (45)
degrees that form a side of a building or unit. See Figure 5.06.02-A.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.06.03   Sign Area
   A.   Generally
The area of a sign shall be the area within the smallest square, rectangle,
parallelogram, triangle, circle, or semicircle, the sides of which touch the
extreme points or edges of the sign face.
   B.   Special Situations
      1.   Where a sign is composed of letters or pictures attached directly to
a facade, window, door, or marquee, and the letters or pictures are not
enclosed by a border or trimming, the sign area shall be the area within the
smallest rectangle, parallelogram, triangle, circle or semicircle, the sides of
which touch the extreme points of the letters or pictures. See Figure 5.06.03-
A.
      2.   Where two (2) sign faces are placed back to back on a single sign
structure and the faces are at no point more than four (4) feet apart, the area
of the sign shall be counted as the area of one (1) of the faces.
      3.   Where four (4) sign faces are arranged in a square, rectangle, or
diamond, the area of the sign shall be the area of the two (2) largest faces.
See Figure 5.06.03-B.
      4.   Where a sign is in the form of a three-dimensional object, the area
shall be determined by drawing a square, rectangle, parallelogram, triangle,
circle, or semicircle, the sides of which touch the extreme points or edges of
the projected image of the sign and multiplying that area by two (2). The
“projected image” is that image created by tracing the largest possible two-
dimensional outlines of the sign. See Figure 5.06.04-A.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.06.04   Number of Signs
   A.   Generally
In general, the number of signs shall be the number of non-contiguous sign
faces. Multiple non-contiguous sign faces may be counted as a single sign if
all the sign faces are included in the geometric figure used for determining
the sign area. See Figure 5.06.04-A.
   B.   Special Situations
      1.   Where two (2) sign faces are placed back to back and are at no point
more than three (3) feet apart, it shall be counted as one (1) sign.
      2.   If a sign has four (4) faces arranged in a square, rectangle, or
diamond, it shall be counted as two (2) signs. See Figure 5.06.04-B.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.06.05   Sign Height
The height of a sign shall be measured as the vertical distance from the
finished grade at the base of the supporting structure to the top of the sign,
or its frame or supporting structure, whichever is higher. See Figure 5.06.05-
A.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.07.00   DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND LOCATION STANDARDS
   5.07.01   Generally
All permanent signs must comply with the following design, construction, and
location standards.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.02   Compliance with Building and Electrical Codes Required
All permanent signs, and the illumination thereof, shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained in conformity with applicable provisions of the
building and electrical codes adopted by the City. Additionally, the following
will apply:
   A.   All freestanding signs shall have self-supporting structures erected on
or permanently attached to concrete foundations.
   B.   Wind loads. All signs shall be designed and constructed to meet the
wind loading requirements as set forth in the Florida Building Code.
   C.   All signs containing electrical components shall be constructed
according to the specifications of the Florida Building Code as well as the
specifications of Underwriters’ Laboratories or other approved testing agency.
All such signs shall have a clearly visible testing agency label permanently
affixed.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.03   Illumination Standards
   A.   Sign lighting may not be designed or located to cause confusion with
traffic lights.
   B.   Illumination by floodlights or spotlights is permissible so long as
none of the light emitted shines directly onto an adjoining property or into
the eyes of motorists or pedestrians using or entering public streets.
   C.   Illuminated signs shall not have lighting mechanisms that project more
than eighteen (18) inches perpendicularly from any surface of the sign over
public space.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.04   Placement Standards
   A.   Near Street and Driveway Intersections:
Signs located within a clear visibility triangle shall conform to the
requirements of this Code, Florida Building Codes, and the Manual of Uniform
Minimum Standards for Design, Construction, and Maintenance for Streets and
Highways published by the Florida Department of Transportation.
   B.   In Right of Way:
Supports for signs or sign structures shall not be placed in or upon public
right of way or public easement.
   C.   Over Right of Way:
      No ground sign shall project over a public right of way.
   D.   Blocking Exits, Fire Escapes, Etc.
No sign or sign structure shall be erected that impedes the use of any fire
escape, emergency exit, or standpipe.
   E.   Public Lands:
The placement of any sign or signs of any nature, including political signs,
except by local, state or federal governments, or their respective agencies, on
any public lands, tracts, or parcels shall be prohibited. Public lands, tracts
or parcels, or portions thereof, shall include, but not be limited to, all
right of ways, known public easements, parks, piers, public roads, and public
waterways.
   F.   Vacant Lands:
The placement of any sign or signs of any nature, including political signs,
except by local, state, or federal governments, or their respective agencies,
on any vacant land shall be prohibited. Vacant land shall be defined as any
lot, parcel, or tract of land without a properly approved structure erected on
such land. Roads, streets, bridges and other infrastructure or utility
improvements shall not be considered a “structure” for purposes of this
section. Properly approved and erected real estate signs advertising the vacant
property on which such signs are erected shall be permitted and shall not
violate this section.
   G.   No sign shall be attached in any form, shape, or manner which will
interfere with any opening required for ventilation.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.05   Clearance Standards
   A.   Over Pedestrian Ways:
All signs over pedestrian ways shall provide a minimum of seven (7) feet six
(6) inches of clearance.
   B.   Over Vehicular Ways:
All signs over vehicular ways shall provide a minimum of thirteen (13) feet six
(6) inches of clearance.
   C.   Signs shall be located in such a way as to maintain horizontal and
vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
Florida Building Code specifications.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.06   Relationship to Building Features
A building sign shall not extend beyond any edge of the surface to which it is
attached, nor disrupt a major architectural feature of the building. See Figure
5.07.06-A and Figure 5.07.06-B.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.07   Maximum Projection
A building sign may project no more than four (4) feet perpendicularly from the
surface to which it is attached.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.08   Maximum Window Coverage
The combined area of permanent and temporary signs placed on or behind windows
shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total window area at the same
floor level on the side of the building or unit upon which the signs are
displayed.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.07.09   Format for Multiple Occupancy Complexes
Building signs for multiple occupancy complexes constructed, remodeled, undergo
a change in use, or a change in ownership after the effective date of this Code
shall conform to an approved sign format. The sign format shall be included as
a submittal for authorization to erect such a sign and shall be maintained on
file in City Hall. The format shall be presented in a plan or sketch, together
with written specifications in sufficient detail to enable the Board to
authorize signs based on the specifications. As a minimum, the sign format
shall specify the types of signs and dimensions (not to exceed the size limits
contained in this Article) which will be permitted each occupant within the
complex. The sign format shall also contain common design elements, such as
placement, color, shape, or style of lettering, which lend a unified appearance
to the signs of the occupants within the complex. The sign format may only be
modified with the approval of the Board upon submission of a revised plan and
specifications detailing the revised format.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.08.00   NONCONFORMING SIGNS
   5.08.01   Defined
Any sign within the City on the effective date of this Code (or a sign existing
within any area annexed to the City after the effective date of this Code)
which is prohibited by, or does not conform to the requirements of, this Code;
except signs that are within ten percent (10%) of the height and size
limitations of this Code, and that in all other respects conform to the
requirements of this Code, shall be deemed in conformity with this Code.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.08.02   Continuation of Use
   A.   All nonconforming signs and all signs prohibited by Part 5.02.00
(Prohibited Signs) of this Code with a replacement cost of less than $100.00,
shall be removed within sixty (60) days of the enactment of this Code.
   B.   All other nonconforming signs other than nonconforming accessory or
permanent signs, but including portable signs, shall be removed within one (1)
year of the effective date of this Code. Within thirty (30) days from the
effective date of this Code, any animated component of any portable sign shall
be turned off.
   C.   Nonconforming accessory and other permanent signs may be continued
indefinitely subject to the restrictions of Section
5.08.03 below.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.08.03   Continuation of Use Restrictions
Subject to the restrictions of Section
5.08.02, a nonconforming sign may be continued and shall be maintained in good
condition as required by this Code, but it shall not be:
   A.   Structurally changed to another nonconforming sign, but its pictorial
content may be changed.
   B.   Structurally altered to prolong the life of the sign, except to meet
safety requirements.
   C.   Altered in any manner that increases the degree of nonconformity.
   D.   Expanded.
   E.   Re-established after damage or destruction if the estimated cost of
reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the appraised replacement cost as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Board.
   F.   Continued in use when a conforming sign or sign structure shall be
erected on the same parcel or unit.
   G.   Continued in use after the structure housing the occupancy is
demolished or requires renovations the cost of which exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the assessed value of the structure.
   H.   Continued in use after the structure housing the occupancy changes
ownership.
   I.   Signs where either the business or structure no longer exists shall be
removed.
   J.   Signs that do not conform to these regulations will be removed upon
transfer of ownership.
In addition to the above, permanent signs such as animated signs or signs with
flashing lights shall conform to the signage regulations contained in the
Article by turning off the animated or flashing portion of the sign, where
practicable.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.08.04   Removal of Real Estate Sales Signs
Temporary signs erected for the sale of real property as set forth in sections
5.03.05 and 5.03.06 shall be removed by the property owner or the real estate
agent/broker whose name is on such real estate sign within fifteen (15) days
from the closing of the sale of such property. The closing and sale date for
such properties shall be defined as the date on which the seller signs the deed
or other transfer documents to actually convey such property. The earliest
executed document(s) shall control.
Upon violation of Section
5.08.04 of this Code by the owner of the new property or the real estate broker
or agent of the recently sold property, the offending party will be subject to
the penalties specified in Section
5.10.00. The City, at its discretion, shall be permitted to remove any such
offending sign and retain such sign until any and all fines are paid in full.
The City, at its discretion, may suspend or withhold the business license of
any broker or agent whose name appears on such signs if more than two (2)
violations of this Code occur in any twelve (12) month period.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.09.00   PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED
All signs existing in the City on the effective date of this Code, other than
temporary signs, are required to have a sign permit application on file at City
Hall within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Code,
to establish a record of existing signs in the City. Applications for permits
for signs existing on the effective date of this Code are exempt from any sign
permit fees adopted as a part of this Code, if submitted within one hundred
eighty (180) days of the effective date of this Code. Information included on
the application shall contain sufficient information for the City Administrator
to make a determination as to whether the sign is in conformance with this
Code. The erection of a permanent sign after the effective date of this Code
shall require a sign permit as required in Article VII of this Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.09.01   Licenses
No person may engage in the business of erecting, altering, relocating,
constructing, or maintaining signs without a valid occupational license and all
required state and federal licenses.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   5.09.02   Indemnification
All persons involved in the maintenance, installation, alteration, or
relocation of signs near any public right-of-way or property shall agree to
hold harmless and indemnify the city, its officers, agents, and employees,
against any and all claims of negligence resulting from such work.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
5.10.00   PENALTIES
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
ordinance shall, upon conviction thereof, for each such offense, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $250.00 per offense or
imprisonment of up to thirty (30) days, or by both fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the Court.
In addition to the penalties set forth above, violation of this ordinance shall
be a civil penalty and each violation shall be considered a separate offense.
The City shall send a notice of violation of this ordinance to any real estate
broker or agent whose name(s) appear on an offending sign and give such person
(s) seven (7) days to correct the violations(s). If the violation is not
removed within seven (7) days from the mailing of such notices, then the new
owner and the real estate broker or agent whose name(s) appear on the offending
sign will be fined a minimum of $100 and up to $10 per day for every day that
the offending sign is in violation. The City shall always retain the right to
remove any sign it deems to be in violation of this ordinance or any sign
ordinance or law of this City or State without the City incurring any penalty
or liability whatsoever to the owner of any sign(s).
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
ARTICLE VI
OFF-STREET PARKING, CIRCULATION AND ACCESS
6.01.00   DEFINITIONS
   Access
Ingress to and egress from land bordering on a system of streets and roads.
   Connection
Driveways, streets, turnouts, and other means of providing the movement of
vehicles to or from roads on the state highway system.
   Driveway
That portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a travel lane
bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle accommodation
area.
   Gross Floor Area
The gross floor area of a building is the sum of the area at each floor level,
including cellars, basements, mezzanines, penthouses, corridors, lobby stores,
and offices that are included with the principle outside faces of exterior
walls, not including architecture setbacks or projections. Included are all
storage or other areas that have floor surface with clear standing head room
(six (6) feet, six (6) inches minimum) regardless of the use. Where a ground
level area, or a part thereof, within the principle outside faces of exterior
wall is left unenclosed, the gross floor area of the enclosed portion is to be
considered as a part of the overall square footage of the building. All
unroofed areas and unenclosed roofs over spaces, except as defined above are to
be excluded from the area calculations.
   Level of Service
Shall mean a measure of the percentage of capacity of a roadway or intersection
being used during the peak hour, as determined by the traffic engineer, and in
compliance with the definitions contained in the Highway Capacity Manual, HRS
special report 87.
   Major Arterial, Major Collector, Minor Collector
The categories of functional classification, which is the grouping of highways
by the characteristics of service they provide. The street hierarchy system
shall be defined by road function and average daily traffic calculated by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers.
   Parking Space
A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set for the parking of one (1)
vehicle.
   Permit
Shall mean written authority to allow construction, reconstruction, or
reclassification of a connection in accordance with this Code.
   Setback
The lateral distance between the right-of-way line and the roadside business,
building, gasoline pump, curb base, display stand, or other object. The
provision of the setback will result in space for vehicles to stop or park
between such facilities and the right-of-way line.
   Shopping Center
      (a)   A shopping center is defined as a group of shops forming a central
retail market within a given area.
      (b)   To be considered a shopping center, the development must contain a
minimum of five (5) separate and individual shops or businesses.
      (c)   The specific location must be identified and approved by the City
Council of the City of Mexico Beach. All applications for the development of a
shopping center must include geographic boundaries of the shopping center.
      (d)   Additional businesses can be added with approval by the City
Council.
      (e)   Any request for the development of a shopping center must be in the
form of a major commercial development order with all the requirements of such
being met by the owner(s) and/or developer(s).
      (f)   Required parking for any shopping center will be calculated at one
(1) space per three hundred (300) square feet of gross business space. All
parking will be owned/maintained by the shopping center with the only
specifically designated parking being those required for “Handicap Parking.”
      (g)   Any approved shopping center will be designated on all City maps.
   State Road
All streets, roads, highways, and other public ways open to travel by the
general public and dedicated to public use according to law or by prescription,
and designated by the Florida Department of Transportation as part of the state
highway system.
   Vehicle Accommodation or Vehicle Use Area
That portion of a lot that is used by vehicles for access, circulation,
parking, and loading and unloading areas. It comprises the total of circulation
areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas (spaces and aisles).
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
6.02.00   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   A.   Purpose
The requirements set forth in this section are designed to ensure the adequate
provision of safe access, efficient on-site traffic flow, and acceptable
parking for every building, structure, or use erected or instituted.
   B.   Existing Structures and Uses
      1.   Conforming Uses
   As of the effective date of this Code, existing buildings or structures may
be modernized, altered, or repaired without having to apply these regulations,
provided there is no increase in floor area or capacity and no change of
occupancy classification.
      2.   Expansion of Structure
   The proposed expansion of any existing structure or building in floor area,
volume, capacity, or space shall result in the compliance with the requirements
governed by this Code for both existing and new structures or buildings.
      3.   Non-Conforming Uses
   Non-conforming uses destroyed or damaged in excess of fifty percent (50%),
when rebuilding, must comply with Section 6 of this Code.
      4.   Change in Use
   A change in use of a structure or building resulting in additional
requirements over that of the present use, shall be bound to comply with the
regulations contained in this Code.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
6.03.00   OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
   A.   Space Requirements
The following matrix specifies the required minimum number of automobile spaces
for a particular land use.
LAND USE SPACES REQUIRED
LAND USE                                                                          SPACES
                                                                                  REQUIRED
1.   DWELLINGS
a.   All Residential (houses, apartments, condominiums, townhouses, and mobile 2 per unit
homes)
                                                                                  1.25 per
                                                                                  room or
                                                                                  suite, and
                                                                                  10 per
                                                                                  1000 sq.
                                                                                  feet of
                                                                                  floor area
b.   Hotel and Motel                                                           or 1 per 4
                                                                                  seats,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is greater
                                                                                  for
                                                                                  restaurant
                                                                                  and lounge
                                                                                  area
c.   Boarding and Rooming Houses, and Dormitories                              1 per each
                                                                                  bedroom
d.   Travel Trailer Parks                                                      1 per unit
2.   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY
                                                                                  1 per 4
                                                                                  seating
a.   Churches, Temple, or Places of Worship                                    spaces in
                                                                                  main
                                                                                  assembly
                                                                                  area
                                                                                  1 per 300
b.   Fraternal Organization                                                    sq. feet
                                                                                  of gross
                                                                                  floor area
c.   Theater or Place of Assembly                                              1 per 3
                                                                                  seats
                                                                                  1 per
                                                                                  staff
                                                                                  member
                                                                                  plus 1
d.   Day Care Facilities                                                       space per
                                                                                  5 children
                                                                                  (based on
                                                                                  maximum
                                                                                  capacity)
                                                                                  1 per 4
                                                                                  seats or 1
                                                                                  per 100
                                                                                  sq. feet
e.   Amusement Place, Dance Hall                                               of gross
                                                                                  floor
                                                                                  area,
                                                                                  whichever
                                                                                  is greater
3.   HEALTH FACILITIES
                                                                                  1 per 4
a.   Nursing Homes                                                             beds, plus
                                                                                  1 per 4
                                                                                  employees
                                                                                  1 per 300
b.   Medical, Dental, and Health Offices and Clinics                           sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
4.   COMMERCIAL
                                                                                  1 per 300
a.   Banks                                                                     sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 per 300
b.   Food Store                                                                sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 per 300
c.   Food Stores with Gas Pump                                                 sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  2 plus 4
d.   Automobile Service Station                                                spaces per
                                                                                  service
                                                                                  bay
                                                                                  1 per 300
e.   General Business, Commercial, or Personal Service Establishment Catering tsq. feet
Retail Trade                                                                      gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 per 300
f.   Offices, Excluding Medical, Dental, and Health Clinics and Offices        sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
g.   Eating and Drinking Establishments                                        1 per 4
                                                                                  seats
                                                                                  1 per 200
h.   Take out establishments only                                              sq. feet
                                                                                  of gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  1 per 300
i.   Shopping Centers                                                          sq. feet
                                                                                  of gross
                                                                                  floor area
5.   RECREATION
                                                                                  0.5 per
                                                                                  wet slip
a.   Marina                                                                    and 0.5
                                                                                  per dry
                                                                                  slip
6.   INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                  1 per 2000
a.   Warehousing                                                               sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor area
                                                                                  2 per 1000
                                                                                  sq. feet
                                                                                  gross
                                                                                  floor
                                                                                  area. For
                                                                                  each sq.
                                                                                  foot up to
                                                                                  150,000
                                                                                  sq. feet
b.   Wholesale, Manufacture, Processing, or Assembly                           plus 1
                                                                                  space per
                                                                                  1000 sq.
                                                                                  feet for
                                                                                  each sq.
                                                                                  feet over
                                                                                  150,000
                                                                                  sq. feet
                                                                                  of gross
                                                                                  floor area
7.   MIXED USE
                                                                                  Sum of
a.   Mixed Use                                                                 individual
                                                                                  categories
Categories not listed above shall be established by the City Council based upon
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Board
 
   B.   Uses Not Specifically Listed in Matrix
Parking space requirements for a use not specifically listed in the matrix
shall be derived from a use that most closely approximates the unlisted use.
   C.   Off-Street Parking Plan
A plan showing off-street parking shall be submitted and approved before a
permit is issued for the construction of, or use of, the building or structure.
This plan shall accurately show the number and location of spaces, their size
access aisles, driveways, and required landscaping areas. This plan shall not
include any City owned or City maintained right-of-way as part of the plan. The
entire plan must be on the owner’s or developer’s property.
   D.   Spaces for Handicapped Persons
Any parking area to be used by the general public shall provide suitable,
marked spaces for handicapped persons as required by the American National
Standards Institute, (ANSI), A117.1, and by F.S. Chapter 553, Part II.
   E.   Joint Use and Off-Site Facilities
Parking spaces must be located and maintained on property abutting and
contiguous of the building, structure, or use served. No parking spaces
provided shall count as part of the spaces required for another building,
structure, or use, unless the spaces are jointly provided by uses that are not
normally open at the same time. If such a joint parking arrangement is
proposed, the applicants must file a written notarized agreement assuring the
retention of the joint parking arrangement with the application for a building
permit.
   F.   Garbage Dumpsters
No Garbage dumpster shall be permitted to be placed in a required parking
space. If a garbage dumpster is required, an additional space must be included
in the Off-Street Parking Plan.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 804, passed 1-10-2023)
6.04.00   DESIGN STANDARDS
   A.   Minimum Size
      1.   Standard parking spaces shall be sized according to the following
table.
 
                                                  Curb Length Lot Width (two
Parking Angle Stall Width Stall Depth Aisle Width Per Car     rows plus
                                                              aisle)
0             10’       10’       12’       23’       32’
45            10’       21.2’     12’       14.1’     54.4’
60            10’       22.3’     18’       11.5’     62.6’
90            10’       20’       24’       10’       64’
 
      2.   Spaces for handicapped parking shall be a minimum of twelve (12)
feet wide and twenty (20) feet long.
   B.   Surfacing Materials
      1.   All parking areas are required to pave parking spaces. Residential
parking areas have the option of either paving the parking spaces or using
crushed shells, gravel, or other similar dust-free materials. All parking
spaces shall be clearly defined.
      2.   Access drives and aisles for parking areas shall be paved.
      3.   Any parking space designated as handicapped parking shall be paved.
   C.   Drainage
      1.   All required off-street parking facilities shall conform to the
Stormwater Management requirements section of this Code, and shall be drained
so as not to cause any nuisance to adjacent private or public property.
   D.   Access
      1.   All parking spaces shall have direct access to public streets only
by way of aisles or driveways, constructed in accordance with the provisions of
this Code.
   E.   Landscaping of Parking Areas
      1.   All parking areas, except residential, are required to set aside
five percent (5%) of the parking area for landscaping. If a commercial parking
area is proposed, a six (6) foot fence is required in addition to the buffer
requirements established in Chapter 4 of this Code. Additional landscaping
requirements for vehicle use areas are set forth in the Landscaping Section of
this Code.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
6.05.00   ACCESS MANAGEMENT
All proposed development shall meet the following standards for vehicular
access and circulation.
   A.   General Standards
      1.   Access points must be able to accommodate all vehicles having
occasion to enter the site, including delivery vehicles.
      2.   Access point design must be such that an entering vehicle will not
encroach upon the exit lane of a two-way driveway.
      3.   There must be sufficient on-site storage to accommodate queued
vehicles waiting to park or exit without using any portion of the street right-
of-way or in any other way interfering with street traffic.
   B.   Number of Access Points
      1.   A maximum of one (1) access point shall be permitted to a particular
site from each of one (1) or two (2) abutting streets.
      2.   Dual access drives will be considered to be one (1) access point.
   C.   Separation of Access Points
      1.   The location of access points on state-maintained roads shall be in
accordance with Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) rules, Chapter 14-
96 and Chapter 14-97.
      2.   On roads not maintained by the State, the separation between access
points onto arterial or collector roads, or between an access point and an
intersection of an arterial or collector with another road, shall be in
accordance with the following table:
 
Functional Road Class Distance Between Access Points
Major Arterial        300 feet
Major Collector       185 feet
Minor Collector       140 feet
 
      3.   The distance between access points shall be measured from the
centerline of the proposed driveway or roadway to the centerline of the nearest
adjacent roadway or driveway.
   D.   Driveway Regulations
      1.   All driveways connecting to any City owned or City maintained right-
of-way, where constructed or altered by others, must be included in a site plan
before construction can occur. No one shall enter upon a City owned or City
maintained right-of-way to construct a driveway or roadway, alter an existing
driveway or existing roadway, or connect any driveway or roadway until the
development order is issued. Development orders will not be permitted until
these standards are met.
      2.   Permits for the construction or alteration of driveways or roadways
on City owned or City maintained rights-of-way will be issued in conformity
with procedures set forth in the Concurrency Management Section of this Code.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
6.06.00   EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
   A.   Nonconforming Vehicle Use Areas
      1.   An existing vehicle use area that does not comply with the
requirements of this Code must be brought into full compliance when fifty
percent (50%) or more of the paving of the vehicle use area is replaced.
      2.   When the square footage of a vehicle use area is increased,
compliance with this Code is required as follows:
         a.   When a vehicle use area is expanded by twenty-five percent (25%)
or less, only the expansion area must be brought into compliance with this
Code.
         b.   When a vehicle use area is expanded by more than twenty-five
percent (25%), the entire vehicle use area shall be brought into compliance
with this Code.
      3.   After enactment of this Code, any existing vehicle use area having
more than the number of spaces required by this Code, which is proposed to be
changed shall be treated as follows:
         a.   The area shall be reconfigured to comply with requirements in
this Code.
         b.   If, after the reconfiguration, a paved area or areas that are not
needed to comply with the requirements of this Code remain, the developer may
do any one (1) or combination of the following:
            (1)   Conform the area(s) to comply with this Code and continue to
use them for parking.
            (2)   Remove the paving and use as grassed overflow parking.
   B.   Reduction in the number of parking spaces required for the purpose of
saving a protected tree as set forth in the Tree Protection Section of this
Code.
      1.   One (1) required surfaced parking space for each full ten (10)
parking spaces may be waived if that parking space would endanger a protected
tree as defined in the Tree Protection Section of this Code. The area that
would have been a part of that parking space must also be set aside for
landscaping.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
ARTICLE VII
ADMINISTRATION, APPEALS, AND CONCURRENCY
7.00.00   PURPOSE AND INTENT
This article sets forth the application and review procedures required for
obtaining development orders and certain types of permits and specifies the
procedures for appealing decisions. This Article also describes the
requirements and procedures for implementing concurrency and for measuring the
impact of development on level of service standards adopted in the City of
Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan for: potable water, solid waste, stormwater
management, septic tank, roads, and recreation.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.00.01   Withdrawal of Applications
An application for development review may be withdrawn at any time so long as
no notice has been given that the application will be reviewed at a public
hearing.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.00.02   Definitions
   Adversely Affected Person
Any person who is suffering or will suffer an adverse effect to an interest
protected or furthered by the local government comprehensive plan, including
but not limited to: interests related to health and safety; police and fire
protection services; densities or intensities of development; transportation
facilities; recreational facilities; educational facilities; health care
facilities, equipment, or services; and environmental or natural resources. The
alleged adverse effect may be shared in common with other members of the
community at large, but must exceed in degree the general interest in community
good shared by all persons.
   Certificate of Concurrency
The certificate issued by the City of Mexico Beach upon finding that an
application for a development order will not result in a reduction of the level
of service standards for public facilities and services below those standards
adopted in the City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan.
   Concurrency
A condition where public facilities and services have or will have the
necessary capacity to meet the adopted level of service standards at the time
of impact of the development project.
   Development
Any building activity involving any material change in appearance to any
structure or land, a change in the intensity of land use exclusive of normal
lot cleaning where no trees or vegetation protected by the Land Development
Codes are removed, or clearing of land for development purposes and any of the
following activities:
      1.   Construction, clearing, filling, excavating, grading, paving,
dredging, drilling, or otherwise significantly disturbing the soil of a site.
(Examples: Any parcel of land which contains a structure but also vacant lots
such as those in a subdivision—such as Casuna or Ocean Plantation—or vacant
lots which have met the definition of development and have been maintained over
time, such as those along Hwy 98.)
      2.   Building, installing, enlarging, replacing, or substantially
restoring a structure, impervious surface, or water management system, and
including the long-term storage of materials.
      3.   Division of land into two (2) or more parcels.
      4.   A tree removal for which authorization is required under this Code
(Section
7.01.01).
      5.   Erection of a permanent sign unless expressly exempted by Article V
of this Code (Section
7.01.03).
      6.   Alteration of a historic property for which authorization is
required under this Code.
      7.   Changing the use of a site so that the need for parking is
increased.
      8.   Construction, elimination, or alteration of a driveway onto a public
street (Section
7.01.03).
      9.   Erection or construction of any fence (Section
7.01.03).
   Development Application
An applicant for a development order shall provide the City of Mexico Beach
with all information required for the City to determine that the proposed
development is consistent with the provisions of this Code.
   Development Order
An order issued by the City of Mexico Beach which grants, denies, or grants
with conditions, an application for a development permit.
   Development Permit
Includes any building permit or other official action of local government
having the effect of permitting development.
   Public Facilities and Services
The following public facilities and services for which level of service
standards have been adopted in the City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan and
which must be evaluated for concurrency:
      1.   Potable water
      2.   Solid waste
      3.   Stormwater management
      4.   Septic tank or sewer
      5.   Roads
      6.   Recreation
   Gross Floor Area
The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a building
measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the centerline of a
wall separating two (2) buildings, but not including, non-roofed, non-heated,
and air conditioned spaces, interior parking spaces, loading space for motor
vehicles, or any space where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six (6)
feet.
   Impervious Surface
A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer of material so that
it is highly resistant to infiltration by water. It includes, but is not
limited to, semi-impervious surfaces such as compacted clay, as well as most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots, and other
similar structures. If porous paving materials are used, documentation shall be
provided demonstrating the permeability of the materials, and the percentage of
impervious area shall be adjusted accordingly.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.01.00   AUTHORIZATION BY A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO UNDERTAKING
ANY DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
   7.01.01   Process
   A.   Except as provided in Section
7.01.03 below, any development activity within the City of Mexico Beach may
commence only when:
      1.   The application for development has complied with the application
and approval procedures established in this Code and has received all required
permits (wastewater, potable water, stormwater, etc.) from outside agencies;
and
      2.   A development order and certificate of concurrency has been issued
by the City of Mexico Beach Building Department.
   B.   A development order shall be issued by the City of Mexico Beach if the
development is consistent with the adopted Land Development Code. A development
shall be considered consistent with the adopted Comprehensive Plan if the
development conforms to the provisions set forth in the City of Mexico Beach
Land Development Code.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.01.02   Prerequisites to Issuance of Development Permit
A development permit shall not be issued by the Mexico Beach Building
Department for any development within the City of Mexico Beach that is not
exempted under Section
7.01.03 until such time as:
   1.   A certificate of concurrency has been issued by the City of Mexico
Beach for the proposed development as provided in Section
7.06.00.
   2.   The proposed development has undergone site review by the City of
Mexico Beach as provided in Section
7.02.00.
   3.   The City of Mexico Beach City Council has approved the development
activity as provided in Section
7.02.03.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.01.03   Exceptions to Requirement of a Development Order
   A development order shall not be required for the following:
   A.   Development authorized by a development permit issued prior to the
effective date of this Code, in which development activity has begun and has
continued in good faith.
   B.   The maintenance or alteration of an existing building or structure so
long as no change is made to its gross floor area, its use, or the amount of
impervious surface on the site.
   C.   Permits for the following activities may be issued by the City of
Mexico Beach without a development order so long as the development activity is
not part of a larger development activity:
      1.   Removal of protected trees when not accompanied by earthwork
activity such as clearing, excavating, grading, or otherwise significantly
disturbing the soil of the site.
      2.   Driveway installation or modification which does not access Hwy 98.
      3.   Installation or construction of fences.
      4.   Installation or construction of signs.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.01.04   Post-Permit Changes
After a development order or development permit has been issued, it shall be
unlawful to change, modify, alter, or otherwise deviate from the terms or
conditions of the development order without first obtaining a modification of
the development order.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.02.00   PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS
   7.02.01   Pre-Application Conference
Prior to filing for development plan review, the developer shall meet with the
City Administrator or designee to discuss the development review process. No
person may rely upon any comment concerning a proposed development plan, or any
expression of any nature about the proposal made by any participant at the pre-
application conference as a representation or implication that the proposal
will be ultimately approved or rejected in any form.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.02.02   Review of Development Activity
   A.   1.   Development Order Types
   A Development Order is the document and process used by the City of Mexico
Beach for the property owner to define and illustrate the development planned,
for the City to assure proper administration review and conformance to the City
of Mexico Beach Land Development Code, and to support the authorization to
proceed and the issuance of any building permits that may be required by the
Mexico Beach Building Department. The five (5) types of Development Orders
(DO’s) and the manner in which they are processed are:
         a.   BASIC DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Basic Development Orders cover
improvements and activities on private property which are processed and
approved by the City Administrator or their designee. Basic Development Orders
are issued as a permit with the fee set for the particular activity requested.
Developments identified may also require a building permit from the Mexico
Beach Building Department at additional cost. Activities covered by Basic
Development Orders include:
            (1)   Requests for removal of trees
            (2)   Installation or construction of fences
            (3)   Driveway installation or modification which does not require
access to U.S. Highway 98
            (4)   Installation or construction of decks and storage sheds.
         b.   MINOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Minor Residential
Development Orders are processed and approved by the City Administrator or
their designee. Minor Residential Development Orders cover the types of
development described in the following examples and must conform to the
specific requirements of the LDC for the type of development approved:
            (1)   Maintenance and repair of an existing building or structure
without change to the gross floor area of the building, its use, or the amount
of impervious surface area at the site and the cost for such activity is less
than fifty percent (50%) of the current tax roll value for the existing
structure.
            (2)   Installation or construction of accessory buildings or
swimming pools.
            (3)   Any action or construction on a non-conforming structure
which requires a building permit be issued.
         c.   MAJOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Major Residential
Development Orders are processed and approved by the Mexico Beach Building
Department. The types of developments covered by a Major Residential
Development Order are listed below, and must conform to the specific
requirements of the LDC for the type of development approved:
            (1)   New residential home construction
            (2)   Additions to a building or structure which do not increase
the heated, ventilated, or air conditioned area but may or may not increase the
foot print of the building or structure such as a garage under a stilt house or
a garage attached to a home
            (3)   Developments which increase the heated, ventilated, and air
conditioned floor area within a building or structure
            (4)   The upgrade, renovation, major repair, or modernization of a
structure if the cost of such upgrade or improvements exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the current tax roll value for the existing structure.
         d.   CANAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Any construction activity along the
canal, of the types described below, but not meeting the criteria for a Major
Commercial Development Order, processed and approved by the Mexico Beach
Building Department:
            (1)   Installation or construction of Seawalls
            (2)   Installation or construction of Docks
            (3)   Installation or construction of Boat Houses and/or Boat Lifts
            (4)   Any other construction in, on, or around the canal which
places any object in the water.
         e.   MINOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Minor Commercial Development
Orders which deal with those activities listed below are processed and approved
by the City Administrator or their designee. Minor Commercial Development
Orders require full conformity with the requirements of the Land Development
Code for the particular activity involved. Typical activities covered by a
Minor Commercial Development Order includes:
            (1)   Installation, construction, or modification of signs.
            (2)   Installation, construction, or modification of fences.
            (3)   Upgrade, renovation, repair, or modification of existing
facilities within the existing footprint
         f.   MAJOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT ORDER: Major Commercial Development
Orders are initially processed by the Mexico Beach Building Department,
referred to the Planning and Zoning Board for a compliance evaluation and
recommendation, and then passed to the City Council for final action. City
Council approval is necessary to obtain a City of Mexico Beach building permit.
Issuance of a Major Commercial Development Order requires that all aspects of
the property involved are brought into full compliance with the requirements of
the Land Development Code for the category of land use involved. Typical
activities covered by a Major Commercial Development Order include:
            (1)   Installation, construction, or modification of decks, patios,
or accessory buildings
            (2)   Upgrade, renovation, repair, or modification of existing
facilities outside the existing footprint
            (3)   Construction of any new facilities of any kind
            (4)   Installation, construction, or modification of parking
facilities
            (5)   Change of land use of commercially zoned property that is
currently used for residential purposes to commercial use
            (6)   A change in use to another use allowed in the same Zoning
District where additional parking or other changes to the exterior of the
building are required.
      2.   Approving Authority
         a.   The City Administrator is hereby granted the authority to approve
all development orders, except Major Commercial Development Orders.
         b.   The Planning and Zoning Board shall make recommendations to the
City Council for either approval or denial of Major Commercial Development
Orders with final approval being the sole responsibility of the Mexico Beach
City Council.
         c.   The City Administrator will assist all applicants with the
preparation of Development Order applications, customer understanding of the
Land Development Code requirements for the particular development involved, and
the procedures to follow to expedite the handling of the customer’s Development
Order. The City Administrator shall process and approve promptly all
applications which comply with the requirements identified for the categories
they are authorized to approve. Major Residential and Minor Commercial
Development Orders which are complete and conform to the requirements of the
Land Development Codes should be processed and approved as soon as possible.
         d.   Development Orders which require Planning and Zoning Board action
and City Council approval will be handled as quickly as possible, pursuant to
the process defined in Section C.1., below.
      3.   Violation. Any person or persons developing land in violation of
this ordinance is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree, punishable as
provided by State Statutes.
      4.   Temporary Streamlined Procedures for Review of Certain Major
Commercial Development Order
   Notwithstanding the requirements of Section
7.02.02 of this Code, applications for Major Commercial Development Orders
submitted before October 26, 2023 that meet the requirements of this paragraph
may be reviewed and approved at the staff level and will not require review by
the Planning and Zoning Board and the City Council. The following requirement
must be met:
         a.   The project must involve reconstructing or repairing a commercial
structure destroyed or damaged by Hurricane Michael;
         b.   The use of the property will not change, as determined with the
standards provided by Section
2.02.05;
         c.   The proposed structure must fit within the footprint of the
structure that existed prior to Hurricane Michael;
         d.   The design proposed must be substantially similar to the
improvements and structures that existed prior to Hurricane Michael, except
that staff may approve exterior aesthetic enhancements, interior modifications,
reductions in square footage, and modifications needed to comply with Florida
Building Code, setbacks, floodplain requirements, and similar rules; and
         e.   The application and proposal meet all other requirements of this
Code, will not require a variance, and will not result in a non-conforming use.
   Any proposal that does not meet these requirements shall be referred to the
Planning and Zoning Board and City Council and follow the standard review
procedures for Major Commercial Development Orders.
   B.   The developer shall file a completed application and development plan
(s) as a prerequisite to obtaining development review.
   C.   Within five (5) working days of receipt of an application and
development plan(s), the City Administrator shall:
      1.   Determine whether the submittals are incomplete and inform the
developer in writing as to any deficiencies; or
      2.   Determine whether the submittals are complete and proceed with the
following procedures.
   D.   Once the application has been deemed complete by the City Administrator
or designee, the City Administrator shall:
      1.   For Basic, Minor Residential, Major Residential, and Minor
Commercial Development orders, determine if the application meets the
requirements of the land development code, including:
         a.   Characteristics of the site and surrounding area, including
important natural and manmade features, the size and accessibility of the site,
and surrounding land uses.
         b.   Whether the concurrency requirements of Section
7.06.00 could be met if the development were built.
         c.   The nature of the proposed development, including land use types
and densities; the placement of proposed buildings, and other improvements on
the site; the location of all proposed signs; the location, type and method of
maintenance of open space and public use areas; the preservation of trees and
other natural features; proposed parking areas; internal traffic circulation
system; the approximate total ground coverage of paved areas and structures;
and, types of water and sewage treatment systems.
         d.   Conformity of the proposed development with the Comprehensive
Plan, this Code, and other applicable regulations.
         e.   Other applicable factors and criteria prescribed by the
Comprehensive Plan, this Code, or other law.
      2.   For Canal and Major Commercial Development Orders, the proposal
shall be placed on the agenda of the next meeting of the Planning and Zoning
Board which was noticed pursuant to Article I.
   E.   The Planning and Zoning Board shall conduct an administrative hearing
for the purpose of reviewing the development proposal and shall consider:
      1.   Characteristics of the site and surrounding area, including
important natural and man-made features, the size and accessibility of the
site, and surrounding land uses.
      2.   Whether the concurrency requirements of Section
7.06.00 could be met if the development were built.
      3.   The nature of the proposed development, including land use types and
densities; the placement of proposed buildings, and other improvements on the
site; the location of all proposed signs; the location, type and method of
maintenance of open space and public use areas; the preservation of trees and
other natural features; proposed parking areas; internal traffic circulation
system; the approximate total ground coverage of paved areas and structures;
and, types of water and sewage treatment systems.
      4.   Conformity of the proposed development with the Comprehensive Plan,
this Code, and other applicable regulations.
      5.   Concerns of surrounding landowners and other affected persons or
interested persons.
      6.   Other applicable factors and criteria prescribed by the
Comprehensive Plan, this Code, or other law.
   F.   Within five (5) days of the completion of the administrative hearing
that has allowed sufficient review of the proposal, the Planning and Zoning
Board shall submit recommendations to the City Council proposing that:
      1.   The proposed development receive a development order complying with
Section
7.02.03 below; or,
      2.   The proposed development be denied a development order based on the
failure of the development to comply with one (1) or more of the conditions
imposed by this Code.
   G.   The City Council shall conduct an administrative hearing for the
purpose of reviewing the development proposal and shall consider the Planning
and Zoning Board recommendations in conjunction with criteria outlined in
paragraphs E.1. – E.6. above.
   H.   The applicant may agree to modify their application, including the
plans and specifications, in response to comments or recommendations by City
Council members. Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that
the City Council cannot reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and
impact of the proposed changes without revised plans before it, the City
Council may approve the application with the stipulation that the development
order will not be issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are
submitted.
   I.   Within five (5) days of the completion of the administrative hearing
that has allowed sufficient review of the proposal, the City Council shall
order the City Administrator to:
      1.   Issue a development order complying with Section
7.02.03 below; or,
      2.   Deny a development order based on the failure of the development to
comply with one (1) or more of the conditions imposed by this Code.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 736, passed 11-12-2019; Ord. 739, passed
10-14-2019; Ord. 775, passed 10-26-2021; Ord. 819, passed 11-14-2023)
   7.02.03   Required Contents of Development Orders
   A.   Required Contents
A development order shall contain:
      1.   A determination that the development meets all applicable
requirements of this Code.
      2.   A specific time period during which the development order is valid
and during which time development shall commence. A development order shall
remain valid only if development commences and continues in good faith
according to the terms and conditions of approval.
      3.   Any conditions, considerations, or special constraints imposed on
the development by the City Council.
   B.   Expiration Date
Development orders will expire six (6) months after their date of issue but
shall remain valid for longer periods of time if development commences and
continues in good faith according to the terms and conditions of approval.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.02.04   Submittals
   A.   Application
Applications for development review shall be available from the Mexico Beach
Building Department. A completed application shall be signed by all owners, the
developer, or their agent of the property subject to the proposal, and
notarized. Signatures by other parties will be accepted only with notarized
proof of authorization by the owners. In a case of corporate ownership, the
authorized signature shall be accompanied by a notation of the signer’s office
in the corporation, and embossed with the corporate seal.
   B.   General Plan Requirements
Diagrams and elevations must be of sufficient detail and scale to depict all
information necessary for a complete evaluation of the proposal. The submission
of written explanations and additional documents may be necessary to satisfy
development review requirements. It is the presumption of this section that all
of the information set forth in the following paragraphs is necessary to
satisfy the requirements of this section. However, it is recognized that each
development is unique and the Planning and Zoning Board or City Council may
allow less information to be submitted according to the needs of the particular
case. The information required under paragraphs C.1. and C.2. below can be
modified during the pre-application conference when the information is not
applicable to the development.
   C.   Site Plan Requirements
Each site plan shall show on the drawings or in tabular form:
      1.   Existing Conditions
         a.   The location of existing property or right-of-way lines both for
private and public property, streets, railroads, buildings, transmission lines,
sewers, bridges, culverts, drain pipes, water mains, fire hydrants, and any
public or private easements.
         b.   All water courses, water bodies, floodplains, wetlands, important
natural features, and vegetative cover.
         c.   The topography of the site.
         d.   The approximate location of Protected Environmentally Sensitive
Zones as established in Article V of this Code.
         e.   Existing land uses and existing zoning of the parcel and abutting
parcels.
         f.   A depiction of the abutting property within four hundred (400)
feet of the proposal showing:
            (1)   Area and percentage of total site area to be covered by an
impervious surface.
            (2)   Densities of residential use; and,
            (3)   Traffic circulation systems.
         g.   The intensity or density of the proposed development.
      2.   Proposed Development Activities and Design
         a.   Generally
            (1)   Area and percentage of total site area to be covered by an
impervious surface.
            (2)   Grading plans specifically including perimeter grading.
            (3)   Construction phase lines.
            (4)   A description of how the plan mitigates or avoids potential
conflicts between land uses.
         b.   Buildings and Other Structures
            (1)   Building plan showing the location, dimensions, gross floor
area, and proposed use of buildings.
            (2)   Building setback distances from property lines, abutting
right-of-way center lines, and all adjacent buildings and structures.
            (3)   Minimum floor elevations of buildings within any 100-year
floodplain.
            (4)   The location, dimensions, type, composition, and intended use
of all other structures.
         c.   Potable Water and Wastewater Systems
            (1)   Proposed location and sizing of potable water and wastewater
facilities to serve the proposed development, including required improvements
or extensions of existing off-site facilities.
            (2)   The boundaries of proposed utility easements.
            (3)   Location of the nearest available public water supply and the
proposed tie-in points.
            (4)   Exact locations of onsite and nearby existing and proposed
fire hydrants.
            (5)   A permit is required from the Bay County Public Health
Department for approval of on-site wastewater systems.
         d.   Streets, Parking, and Loading
            (1)   Points of ingress to and egress from the site including
existing or planned public or private road rights-of-way.
            (2)   The layout of all streets and driveways with paving and
drainage plans.
            (3)   A parking plan showing the total number and dimensions of
proposed parking spaces, spaces reserved for handicapped parking, and projected
on-site traffic flow.
            (4)   The location of any proposed garbage dumpsters.
            (5)   Specifications of all proposed pavement.
         e.   Tree Removal and Protection
            (1)   All protected trees to be removed and a statement of why they
are to be removed.
            (2)   Proposed changes in the natural grade and any other
development activities directly affecting trees to be retained.
            (3)   A statement of the measures to be taken to protect the trees
to be retained.
            (4)   A statement of tree relocations and replacements proposed.
            (5)   A site plan identifying tree protection areas, structure
footprint, and tree protection zones.
         f.   Landscaping
            (1)   Location and dimensions of required buffer zones and
landscaped areas.
            (2)   Description of plant materials existing and to be planted in
buffer zones and landscaped areas.
         g.   Stormwater Management
            (1)   An erosion and sedimentation control plan that describes the
type and location of control measures, the stage of development at which they
will be put into place or used, and maintenance provisions.
            (2)   Minimum floor elevations of buildings within any 100-year
floodplain.
            (3)   A stormwater permit issued by the Northwest Florida Water
Management District for developments other than a residential dwelling.
            (4)   Direction of water flow and areas of the site to be used for
detention of the first one-half (½) inch of runoff for single-family
developments.
         h.   Environmentally Sensitive Lands and Other Protected Natural
Resources
            (1)   The exact sites and specifications for all proposed drainage,
filling, grading, dredging, and vegetation removal activities proposed within
areas containing environmentally sensitive lands or other protected natural
resources.
            (2)   Detailed statement or other materials showing the following:
               a.   The percentage of the land surface of the site that is
covered with natural vegetation and the percentage of natural vegetation that
will be removed by development.
               b.   The distances between development activities and the
boundaries of the environmentally sensitive lands.
               c.   The coastal construction control line must be surveyed and
clearly identified onsite of the property proposed for development.
            (3)   The manner in which habitats of endangered and threatened
species are protected.
         i.   Signs
            (1)   Drawings or diagrams of the plans and specifications of
regulated signs, and method of their construction and attachment to the
building or ground. The plans shall show all pertinent structural details and
display materials in accordance with the requirements of this Code and the
building and electrical codes adopted by the City. The plans shall clearly
illustrate the type of sign or sign structure as defined in this Code; the
design of the sign, including dimensions, colors, and materials; the aggregate
sign area; the dollar value of the sign; maximum and minimum heights of the
sign; and sources of illumination.
            (2)   For regulated ground signs, a plan, sketch, or diagram which
indicates clearly:
               a.   The location of the sign relative to property lines,
rights-of-way, streets, alleys, sidewalks, vehicular access and parking areas,
and other existing ground signs on the parcel.
               b.   All regulated trees that will be damaged or removed for the
construction and display of the sign.
            (3)   For regulated building signs, a plan, sketch, blueprint, blue
line print or similar presentation drawn to scale which indicates clearly:
               a.   The location of the sign relative to property lines,
rights-of-way, streets, alleys, sidewalks, vehicular access and parking areas,
buildings, and structures on the parcel.
               b.   The number, size, type, and location of all existing signs
on the same parcel, except a single business unit in a multiple occupancy
complex shall not be required to delineate the signs of other business units.
               c.   A building elevation or other documentation indicating the
building dimensions.
         j.   Subdivision
      Proposed number, minimum area and location of lots, if development
involves a subdivision of land.
         k.   Land Use and Dedications
            (1)   Location of all land to be dedicated or reserved for all
public and private uses including rights-of-way, easements, special
reservations, and the purposes for which the land will be held.
            (2)   The location and amount of area devoted to all existing and
proposed land uses, including residential, commercial, accessory buildings, and
open space as well as the types of activities proposed for all land uses.
            (3)   The total number and type of all structures including square
footage and gross size. Residential units shall be categorized according to the
total number of residential units per acre (gross density).
         l.   Wellfield Protection
      Location of on-site wells, and wells within one thousand (1,000) feet of
any property line.
         m.   Historic and Archaeological Sites
      The manner in which known historic and archaeological sites on the parcel
will be protected.
            (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.03.00   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
Each administrative hearing conducted for the purpose of reviewing applications
for a development order, or for hearing an appeal to a final decision regarding
a development application, shall conform to the following procedures, as
supplemented by law, rule or decision.
   A.   Burden and Nature of Proof
The applicant for any development order must prove by a preponderance of the
evidence that the proposal satisfies the applicable requirements and standards
of this Code.
   B.   Order of Proceedings
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Board and City Council shall:
         a.   Determine whether it has jurisdiction over the matter.
         b.   Determine whether any member must abstain or is disqualified.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Board and the City Council may take official
notice of known information related to the issue, including:
         a.   State law and applicable ordinances, resolutions, rules, and
official policies of the City.
         b.   Other public records and facts relevant to the proceedings.
      3.   Matters officially noticed need not be established by evidence and
are binding to the extent that they are relevant and material.
      4.   Planning and Zoning Board and City Council members may view the site
of the proposed development with or without notification to the parties, but
after the visit, shall state the time, manner and circumstances of the view for
the record.
      5.   Staff, the developer, and interested persons may present information
relevant to the proposed development and an opportunity for rebuttal shall be
given to opposing parties. The Planning and Zoning Board or City Council may
ask additional persons to testify and may ask additional questions of any
person who has testified or presented evidence.
   C.   Findings and Order
Upon completion of sufficient review of the proposal, the Planning and Zoning
Board and City Council shall state the reasons for a decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny a development order for the proposed
development.
   D.   Record of Proceedings
      1.   All proceedings shall be recorded stenographically or electronically
and shall be transcribed if required for review or if ordered by the City
Council.
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Board shall, where practicable, include in
the hearing record, one (1) copy of each item of physical or documentary
evidence presented and shall mark each item to show the identity of the person
who presented it. Each exhibit received into evidence shall be retained in the
hearing file until after the applicable appeal period has expired.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.04.00      HARDSHIP RELIEF
   7.04.01   Appeals
An appeal from any final order or decision made by the City Administrator or
their designee regarding a development application may be taken to the Planning
and Zoning Board within fifteen (15) days of receipt of a written decision.
An appeal from any final order or decision made by the Planning and Zoning
Board regarding a development application may be taken to the City Council
within fifteen (15) days of receipt of a written decision.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.04.02   Variances
   The purpose of this section is to provide a method of relief for property
owners in a condition where literal application of this Code will inflict
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardships to a particular property or site
that is uncommon to other properties in Mexico Beach, through no fault of the
property owner.
   A.   Purpose.
      A variance is an allowance of land disturbance or development activity
when the planned development cannot meet the requirements of this Code and when
the action or activity requested is not contrary to the public interest and
will not impact the health, safety, or welfare of Mexico Beach residents.
      A variance cannot be issued from any Comprehensive Plan Goal. Objective.
Policy, or Map, or from any designation of the Zoning Map.
   B.   Process.
      1.   The application must be submitted to the City Administrator, or his/
her designee, on a form generated by the City, with the applicable fee. The
application shall be signed by the property owner or their authorized agent.
      2.   The application must be accompanied by a site plan with dimensions
and setbacks shown to clearly identify the nature, extent, and location of the
request.
      3.   At the discretion of the City Administrator, and dependent upon
individual case circumstances, a consistency analysis may be required as part
of the application.
      4.   No application shall be deemed complete and processed for review and
subsequently scheduled for hearing until all required documents and fees are
received by the City.
      5.   The burden of proof to demonstrate the hardship for the City to
issue the variance is upon the property owner or applicant. If the property
owner or applicant presents no evidence that the property cannot be used
without the granting of the variance, the City Council shall deny the request.
      6.   A variance must be considered in a quasi-judicial proceeding by the
City Council. The Citv Council shall support their decision by competent and
substantial evidence and state their findings of fact into the motion to deny
or grant the variance.
      7.   Any appeal to a variance decision by the City Council shall be made
in Circuit Court.
   C.   Applicability.
      The criteria subject to the issuance of a variance include:
      1.   An area variance to the bulk regulations of this Code. An area
variance is defined as:
         Regulatory controls such as lot size, floor area ratio, lot coverage
(also known as impervious surface), open space, and building setbacks that deal
with the placement of a structure or structures on a site and/or the building
envelope. The height of the structure is excluded from a variance request and
cannot be granted under this process. In addition, under no instance shall a
variance to the requirements of any City regulation be issued within any
designated floodway if the result is an increase in flood levels within the
floodway.
      2.   Those activities which are associated with Section 4.02.08 of this
Code.
   D.   Standards of Review.
      The applicant must submit a variance request that demonstrates the
following standards have been met. All standards herein must be found met prior
to the granting of a variance.
      1.   Special conditions or physical circumstances exist which are
particular to the land and which are not applicable to other land subject to
the same regulations or policies such as the parcel size, shape, or topography
of the land. For example, the variance is necessary to protect against wetland
infill or protected trees from impact or removal.
      2.   The special conditions and circumstances that exist do not result
from the actions of the property owner or applicant or are a self-imposed
hardship, nor could the condition or circumstances be corrected or avoided by
the property owner or applicant. As such, the issuance of the variance shall
not confer on the petitioner the grant of a special privilege. For example, a
property owner cannot be issued a setback variance on a property that can
reasonably contain a house with a smaller footprint.
      3.   The relief granted is the minimum degree of relief necessary to make
possible the reasonable use of the land in compliance with all other applicable
regulations.
      4.   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this Code would deprive
the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties that are subject
to the same regulations or policies or would render the enforcement of this
Code impractical.
      5.   The grant of the relief will not be in derogation of the general
intent and purpose of this Code nor the goals, objectives, or policies of the
Comprehensive Plan.
      6.   The issuance of the variance will not create an inconsistency from
the existing character of the area surrounding the site. For the purpose of
this measure, “surrounding site” shall mean those parcels which are within a
five-hundred-foot radius of the subject parcel, or within the same platted
subdivision, as applicable.
   E.   Comparative Review
      A variance must be reviewed on its own merits, and previously approved
variances cannot be the basis of determination for the issuance of a new or
separate variance request.
   F.   Economic Impact
      An economic disadvantage due to a property owner’s or applicant’s
preference as to what they want to do with the property is not sufficient to
constitute a hardship for the purpose of granting a variance.
      (Ord. 811, passed 9-12-2023)
7.05.00   BOARDS
   7.05.01   Appointment and Terms
   A.   Membership.
The Planning and Zoning Board shall consist of five (5) members nominated by
any member of the City Council and approved by a majority of the City Council.
Each member shall be assigned to a Post Number and his or her term shall be
served as set forth below. Each member shall live within the City limits and
the City of Mexico Beach shall be each member’s primary residence. Should a
member move from the City limits or become unable to serve, his or her
successor shall be appointed by the City Council for the remainder of the
unexpired term. No elected official or holder of any other public office shall
be eligible to serve on the Board.
   B.   Term of Office.
All members of the Board shall be appointed for two (2)-year terms unless
serving an unexpired term. Posts 2 and 4 shall serve initial two (2)-year terms
beginning on or about January 9, 2002 and ending two (2) years thereafter on
January 8, 2004. Thereafter, Posts 2 and 4 shall serve two (2)-year terms.
Posts 1, 3, and 5 shall serve initial one (1)-year terms beginning on or about
January 9, 2002 and ending one (1) year thereafter on January 8, 2003.
Thereafter, Posts 1, 3, and 5 shall serve two (2)-year terms.
   C.   Term Limits.
All Board members may serve for two (2) year terms and may be reappointed to
successive terms without limitation.
   D.   Removal of Members.
Any Board member may be removed by the City Council for repeated failure to
attend or participate in meetings or for any other good cause related to
performance of duties.
   E.   Organization.
The Board shall elect a presiding officer from among its members at its first
meeting after January 8th each year, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably
possible. The term of the presiding officer shall be for one (1) year, unless
such presiding officer shall resign, be removed, or otherwise become unable or
ineligible to serve on the Board or as presiding officer. In such event, a new
presiding officer shall be elected by the Board from among its members at the
next Regular Board meeting. The presiding officer shall be eligible for
reelection as presiding officer. The Board shall operate its meetings under
Robert’s Rules of Order, latest edition; however, failure to precisely follow
the format of Robert’s Rules of Order shall not invalidate any action taken at
a Board meeting. Such rules may be modified upon approval of the City Council.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and all records of the
Board shall be a public record as set forth in the Florida Sunshine Laws,
including exceptions.
   F.   Meetings.
The Board shall conduct its Regular Meetings on the first Tuesday of each month
at a time set forth by the Board and noticed as required by State law. It is
within the discretion of the Board to hold and call Special Meetings and
Workshops as may be necessary to further conduct the business of the Board. All
such meetings shall be called and noticed at least twenty-four (24) hours in
advance and as required by State law. The Board may adopt reasonable
administrative rules and procedures and deadlines, subject to approval by a
majority of the City Council, to better expedite the filing of planning and
zoning documents.
   G.   Alternate Members.
Alternate Planning and Zoning Board members may be appointed by a majority vote
of the City Council. Alternate members shall serve two (2)-year terms and shall
be eligible for reappointment. The alternate board members shall be appointed
or reappointed at the January Regular Meeting of the City Council in all even-
numbered years and their terms shall expire on January 8th of each even-
numbered year. The alternate board members shall be assigned specifically as
Alternate Post 1 and Alternate Post 2. Alternate board members may participate
in all subject material discussed by the Board but shall be permitted to vote
only in the absence of one (1) or more regular members. In the absence of one
(1) regular member, only Alternate Post 1 may vote. In the absence of two (2)
or more regular members, then Alternate Posts 1 and 2 may vote. If Alternate
Post 1 is absent from the meeting and is eligible to vote because of the
absence of a regular member, Alternate Post 2 may vote in his or her place. The
eligibility of alternate members to vote shall be reflected in the minutes of
the meeting; however, failure to reflect such action shall not invalidate any
votes taken by the alternate board members.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.06.00   CONCURRENCY DETERMINATIONS
This Section describes the requirements and procedures for implementing
concurrency and for measuring the impact of development on level of service
standards adopted in the City of Mexico Beach Comprehensive Plan for: potable
water, solid waste, stormwater management, septic tank, roads, and recreation.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.01   Certificate of Concurrency
   A.   A certificate of concurrency shall be issued upon completion of a
concurrency evaluation described in the following sections and a finding that
the proposed development will not degrade level of service standards for public
facilities and services.
   B.   A certificate of concurrency attached to an approved development order
shall remain valid so long as the development order remains valid. A
certificate of concurrency that is not attached to an approved development
order shall expire as described in this section. A certificate of concurrency
issued between January 1 and June 30 shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which the certificate of concurrency was issued. A certificate of concurrency
issued between July 1 and December 31 shall expire on June 30 of the following
year as indicted below:
 
Date of Issuance Date of Expiration
Jan 1 – Jun 30 Dec 31 of current year
Jun 30 – Dec 31Jun 31 of following year
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.02   Application and Notice
A concurrency determination will be made by the City Administrator within five
(5) days of receiving a concurrency application containing sufficient
information for completing the concurrency evaluation and payment of the
concurrency review fee. The applicant will receive notification of the findings
by mail.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.03   Determination of Available Capacity
The available capacity of public facilities and services shall be determined by
subtracting the capacity committed to existing development, from the design
capacity of the facilities. The sum is then compared to the projected increment
of demand created by the proposed development to determine if concurrency
requirements are satisfied.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.04   Criterion for Calculating Increment of Demand
   1.   Potable Water:
      a.   The level of service standards shall be those adopted in the
Comprehensive Plan:
         Adopted LOS = 250 gal/ERU (Equivalent Residential Unit)
      b.   The calculation of increment of demand shall be:
         Residential:
            250 gal x total number of Equivalent Residential Units = total
projected demand.
         Commercial:
            150 gal/1,200 square feet of commercial space
      c.   Developers must provide water distribution lines constructed to City
standards and all connections to the water distribution system shall be in
conformance with the Standard Plumbing Code, 1988. All extensions of the City
water system shall be in accordance with Department of Environmental Regulation
standards.
      d.   All residential and non-residential structures shall be connected to
the City water system.
      e.   Permits to connect to the potable water system will only be issued
once capacity has been verified and/or development agreements have been signed
with the City regarding the subject property.
   2.   Solid Waste:
      a.   The level of service standards shall be those adopted in
Comprehensive Plan:
         Adopted LOS = 4.5 lbs/day/capita
      b.   The calculation of increment of demand shall be:
         Residential:
            4.5 lbs x capita = total projected demand.
         Commercial:
            4.5 lbs per 1,000 square feet building area = total projected
demand
   3.   Stormwater Management:
      a.   The level of service standards shall be those adopted in the
Comprehensive Plan:
   Adopted LOS = Chapter 17-25, F.A.C., excluding exemptions specified in
Chapter 17-25.030, F.A.C.
      b.   A presumption of available capacity shall be rendered upon receipt
of the applicable Florida Department of Environmental Regulation permit.
      c.   Residential developments must have site plans indicating areas for
retaining first one-half (½) inch of runoff.
   4.   Sanitary Sewer:
      a.   The calculation of increment of demand shall be:
         Residential:
            250 gal x total number of Equivalent Residential Units = total
projected demand.
         Commercial:
            150 gal/1,200 square feet of commercial space
      b.   Developers must provide sanitary sewer distribution lines
constructed to City standards and all connections to the water distribution
system shall be in conformance with the Standard Plumbing Code, 1988. All
extensions of the City water system shall be in accordance with Department of
Environmental Regulation standards.
      c.   All residential and non-residential structures shall be connected to
the City water system.
      d.   Permits to connect to the potable water system will only be issued
once capacity has been verified and/or development agreements have been signed
with the City regarding the subject property.
   5.   Roads and Streets:
      a.   The level of service standards shall be those adopted in the
Comprehensive Plan:
         Adopted LOS = D for Principle Arterial Roads; and = E for Collector
Roads.
      b.   The method of calculation per Florida Statutes is as follows:
   The cumulative number of trips from the proposed development expected to
reach roadways during peak hours from the complete build-out of a state or
phase being approved, divided by the change in the peak hour maximum service
volume (MSV) of roadways resulting from construction of an improvement
necessary to maintain the adopted level of service, multiplied by the
construction cost, at the time of developer payment, of the improvement
necessary to maintain the adopted level of service.
   OR
         Proportionate Fair Share = [[(Development Tripsi) / (SV Increasei)] x
Costi]
   Where: Development Tripsi = Those trips from the stage or phase of
development under review that are assigned to roadway segment “i” and have
triggered a deficiency per the concurrency management system or have further
degraded the LOS of an already deficient roadway segment;
      SV Increasei = Service volume increase provided by the eligible
improvement to roadway segment “i”;
      Costi = Adjusted cost of the improvement to Segment “i”. Cost shall
include all improvements and associated costs, such as design, right of way
acquisition, planning engineering, inspection, and physical development costs
directly associated with construction at the anticipated cost in the year it
will be incurred.
      c.   Developments located adjacent to State Highway 98 will require a
State Driveway Permit from the Florida Department of Transportation before a
development order will be issued.
      d.   Developments located adjacent to City and local roads will require
driveway review before a development order will be issued.
      e.   A single-family residence, duplex, or quadraplex will not be denied
a certificate of concurrency based on traffic impacts so long as it does not
impact more than five percent (5%) of the roadway capacity.
   6.   Recreation
      a.   The level of service standards shall be those adopted in the
Comprehensive Plan as follows:
 
Facility Type   Level of Service
Community Park  1 acre/2000 pop.
Waterfront Park 1 acre/5000 pop.
 
      b.   The projected increment of demand shall be calculated on the basis
of the population increase resulting from the development.
      c.   Developers of residential developments larger than five (5) acres
shall provide recreation site(s) or a sum of money sufficient for the City to
provide recreation facilities as determined in a recreation fee schedule
adopted by reference in this Code.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.05   Findings of Concurrency Deficiency
If a concurrency determination results in a finding that the proposed
development will result in a reduction in level of service standards below
those adopted in the Comprehensive Plan, the City may conditionally approve a
development order if one (1) of the following conditions occur:
   A.   Potable Water, Wastewater, Solid Waste, and Stormwater
      1.   The necessary public facilities and services are in place at the
time a development permit is issued; or
      2.   A development permit is issued subject to the condition that the
necessary public facilities and services will be in place when the impacts of
the development occur; or
      3.   The necessary public facilities and services are under construction
at the time a development permit is issued; or
      4.   The necessary public facilities and services are guaranteed in an
enforceable development agreement that includes the provisions of 4.04(a)1-3 of
this Section. An enforceable development agreement may include, but is not
limited to, development agreements pursuant to F.S. § 163.3220, or an agreement
of development order issued pursuant to F.S. Chapter 380. The agreement must
guarantee that the necessary public facilities and services will be in place
when the impacts of development occur.
   B.   For recreation, the concurrency requirement may be satisfied by
complying with the standards in 4.04(a)1-3 of this Section or by complying with
the following standards:
      1.   At the time the development order is being issued, the necessary
public facilities and services are the subject of a binding executed contract
which provides for the commencement of the actual construction of the required
facilities or the provision of services within one (1) year of the issuance of
the development permit; or,
      2.   The necessary public facilities and services are guaranteed in an
enforceable development agreement which requires the commencement of the actual
construction of the facilities or the provision of services within one (1) year
of the issuance of the applicable development permit. An enforceable
development agreement may include, but is not limited to, development
agreements pursuant to F.S. § 163.3220, or an agreement or development order
issued pursuant to F.S. Chapter 380.
      3.   For roads, the concurrency requirement may be satisfied by following
the standards in subsections (a)1-3 and (b)1 and 2 of this Section. In
addition, in areas in which the City has committed to provide the necessary
public facilities and services in accordance with its five (5)-year schedule of
capital improvements, the concurrency requirement may be satisfied.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.06   Annual Report
The City Administrator shall prepare and submit an Annual Report to the City
Council which summarizes the available capacity of public facilities and
services. The report shall include:
   A.   The number and type of residential and commercial development projects
for which development orders were issued during the preceding twelve (12)
months.
   B.   An estimate of available capacity for each of the public facilities and
services which must meet concurrency requirements and which is based on:
      1.   The committed capacity including capacity reserved by the issuance
of all certificate of concurrency permits, which will be subtracted from the
design capacity of the facilities, or best estimates.
      2.   Estimates of available capacity may also include projected increased
capacity resulting from improvements identified in the City’s Capital Budget.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.06.07   Use of the Annual Report
The annual report shall establish available capacity for issuing certificates
of concurrency for the next twelve (12) months following the Report. The annual
report shall also be used for evaluating the Capital Improvements Element and
the Capital Budget.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.07.00   PLATTING
Where proposed development includes the subdivision of land, the final approval
of the development plan shall be made contingent upon approval by the City
Council of a plat conforming to the development plan. A plat shall conform to
the requirements of F.S. Chapter 177.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.08.00   FEES
   A.   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
inspection, publication of notice and similar matters shall be charged to
applicants for tree permits, driveway permits, fence permits, sign permits,
concurrency determination, and development review.
   B.   Fees shall be paid upon submission of a signed application.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.09.00   RESERVED
7.10.00   ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BY USE OF A SPECIAL MASTER
   7.10.01   Special Master
   A.   There is created the Special Master of the City also known as the Code
Enforcement Hearing Official. The Special Master and Alternate Special Master
(the “Special Masters”) shall have all the powers conferred by this Code.
   B.   The Special Master shall not be an employee of the City. The Special
Master shall be appointed by the City Council for a term of two (2) years, but
will be reappointed automatically by the City Council unless the City Council
elects not to renew an appointment. There shall be no limit on the number of
reappointments that may be given to any individual Special Master.
   C.   The Special Masters shall serve without compensation while conducting
their duties except Special Masters may be reimbursed for such travel, mileage,
and other actual expenses as authorized by the City Administrator.
   D.   An Alternate Special Master shall be appointed by the City Council and
shall meet the same requirements set forth in B. above. The Alternate Special
Master shall fill any vacancy due to absence of the Special Master including
any temporary basis due to un-foreseen circumstances.
   E.   The Special Master and Alternate Special Master shall work at the will
of the City Council and may be suspended or removed from office by the City
Council.
   F.   Special Master Hearings shall be held as needed, at a reasonable time
and place within the City where an official hearing may be conducted. The City
shall post notice of this hearing five (5) days prior to the hearing if
possible. The posting of this hearing shall be at the City of Mexico Beach City
Hall.
   G.   The minutes of all Special Master Hearing shall be maintained by
clerical staff provided by the City.
   H.   The City shall provide the Special Master with the legal services and
advice for the purposes of the hearing and procedures if requested, which will
not be from the City Attorney if a conflict exists. The City Attorney may serve
as general counsel to the City. If an appeal to the Circuit Court is requested
pursuant to Section
7.10.08 the City Attorney shall represent the City at such proceedings.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.02   Definitions
   Code Enforcement Officer.
Means any authorized employee of the City whose duty it is to enforce any and
all the Codes within the City. An authorized employee is one approved by the
City Administrator.
   Special Master.
A person appointed by the City Council to issue written orders involving
assessment of continuing violation penalties and to hear administrative appeals
regarding Code violations.
"Uncorrectable violation," “continuing violations,” “repeat violation,” and
“correctable violation” shall have the meanings ascribed to them by Section
7.10.06.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.03   Jurisdiction and Powers
   A.   Jurisdiction: Unless specifically stated otherwise within this Code or
this City’s Code of Ordinances, the Special Master shall have jurisdiction to
hear any timely request for an administrative appeal of a civil penalty issued
for violation of this Code or the City’s Code of Ordinance.
   B.   The Special Master shall have the power to:
      1.   Adopt rules for conduct of the hearings;
      2.   Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to the hearings. All
subpoenas shall be served by a law enforcement officer of the City or the Bay
County Sheriff’s Office;
      3.   Subpoena all records or information needed
      4.   Take testimony under oath;
      5.   Assess, uphold, and order the payment of civil penalties as provided
herein;
      6.   Reject or modify findings or penalties set forth by a Notice of
Violation;
      7.   Issue orders having the force of law to command whatever steps
necessary to bring a violation into compliance; and
      8.   In cases where the named violator is found guilty of a violation
which constitutes a public nuisance under this Code or the City’s Code of
Ordinances, authorize the City’s abatement of the nuisance following the
failure of the violator to correct the violation within the time ordered.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.04   Code Enforcement Procedure
   A.   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to initiate
enforcement proceedings as provided below. No Special Master shall have the
power to initiate such proceedings.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, "violators" shall be deemed to be
those persons or entities creating or permitting a violation of the ordinances
of the City of Mexico Beach, or those persons or entities owning or possessing
land on which a violation of ordinances of the City of Mexico Beach is created
or maintained. The City finds and determines that the owner of land has an
obligation to know whether conditions created or maintained on that land
violate any City ordinance and therefore is deemed to have actual or
constructive knowledge of any such violation. The owner of land has a legal
duty to determine whether conditions created or maintained on his or her land
violate any City ordinance, and to correct such violations.
   C.   A Code Enforcement Officer who finds a violation of these Land
Development Regulations or the Mexico Beach City Code shall determine a
reasonable time period within which the violator must correct the violation
provided that such time period shall be no more than thirty (30) days. This
determination shall be based on considerations of fairness; practicality; ease
of correction; ability to correct; severity of violation; nature, extent and
probability of danger or damage to the public; and other relevant factors
relating to the reasonableness of the time period prescribed. A time for
correction need not be specified if the violation is an uncorrectable
violation.
   D.   A Code Enforcement Officer who finds such a violation shall issue a
Notice of Violation to the violator, pursuant to Section
7.10.045.
   E.   The Notice of Violation shall include but not be limited to the
following:
      1.   Date and time of issuance.
      2.   Name of Code Enforcement Officer and division or department issuing
the notice.
      3.   Name and address of the violator.
      4.   Section number of the City Code or Land Development Regulations
section that has been violated.
      5.   Brief description of the nature of the violation, including
location, date, and time of violation.
      6.   Amount of the civil penalty for which the violator may be liable and
a statement that the penalty is waived by the City if the violation is
corrected within ten (10) calendar days.
      7.   Instructions and due date for paying the civil fine or filing for an
administrative hearing before a Special Master to appeal the civil fine.
      8.   Time within which the violation must be corrected if applicable.
      9.   Notice that each day of continued violation after the time period
for correction has run shall be deemed a continuing violation subject to
additional penalty in the same amount, without the need for additional notices
of violation.
      10.   Notice that the filing of a request for an administrative hearing
will toll the accrual of continuing violation penalties.
      11.   Notice that failure to request an administrative hearing within
twenty (20) days, or within the specified time period listed for a violation of
a specific section of the Code, after issuance of the civil violation notice
shall be a waiver of the violator's right to an administrative hearing before
the Special Master, and that such waiver shall constitute an admission of
violation.
      12.   Notice that the violator may be liable for the reasonable costs of
the administrative hearing should he be found guilty of the violation.
      13.   Notice that if the violator fails to pay civil penalty in the time
allowed or fails to request a hearing to contest the violation, the violator
shall be deemed to have waived his right to contest the violation and that, in
such case, judgment may be entered against the violator by the Special Master
for the amount of the maximum civil penalty.
   F.   After issuing a civil violation notice to an alleged violator, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall promptly deposit the original civil violation notice
and one (1) copy of the civil violation notice with the City Clerk or his or
her designee.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.045   Notices
   A.   All notices required by this part shall be provided to the alleged
violator by:
      1.   Certified mail, return receipt requested, provided if such notice is
sent under this paragraph to the owner of the property in question at the
address listed in the tax collector's office for tax notices, and at any other
address provided to the City by such owner and is returned as unclaimed or
refused, notice may be provided by posting as described in subparagraphs B.2.a.
and b. and by first class mail directed to the addresses provided to the City
by such owner with a properly executed proof of mailing or affidavit confirming
the first class mailing;
      2.   Hand delivery by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer, Code
Enforcement Officer, or other person designated by the local governing body;
      3.   Leaving the notice at the violator's usual place of residence with
any person residing therein who is above fifteen (15) years of age and
informing such person of the contents of the notice; or
      4.   In the case of commercial premises, leaving the notice with the
manager or other person in charge.
   B.   In addition to providing notice as set forth in subsection A, at the
option of the party issuing a notice on behalf of the City, a notice may also
be served by publication or posting, as follows:
      1.   a.   Such notice shall be published once during each week for four
(4) consecutive weeks (four (4) publications being sufficient) in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county where the code enforcement board is
located. The newspaper shall meet such requirements as are prescribed under
F.S. Chapter 50, for legal and official advertisements.
         b.   Proof of publication shall be made as provided in F.S. §§ 50.0541
and 50.051.
      2.   a.   In lieu of publication as described in paragraph B, such notice
may be posted at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, or prior to the
expiration of any deadline contained in the notice, in at least two (2)
locations, one (1) of which shall be the property upon which the violation is
alleged to exist and the other of which shall be City Hall.
         b.   Proof of posting shall be by affidavit of the person posting the
notice, which affidavit shall include a copy of the notice posted and the date
and places of its posting.
      3.   Notice by publication or posting may run concurrently with, or may
follow, an attempt or attempts to provide notice by hand delivery or by mail as
required under subsection A.
Evidence that an attempt has been made to hand deliver or mail notice as
provided in subsection A., together with proof of publication or posting as
provided in subsection B, shall be sufficient to show that the notice
requirements of this part have been met, without regard to whether or not the
alleged violator actually received such notice.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.05   Hearing Procedures
   A.   Upon receipt of a named violator's timely request for an administrative
hearing, the Special Master shall set the matter for hearing on the next
regularly scheduled hearing date or as soon thereafter as possible or as
mandated in the specified Code section which is enforced pursuant to this
chapter.
   B.   The Special Master shall provide a notice of hearing by certified mail
to the named violator at his last known address. Alternatively, the notice may
be delivered as provided in Section 7.10.45. The notice of hearing shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      1.   Name of the Code Enforcement Officer who issued the notice.
      2.   Factual description of alleged violation.
      3.   Date of alleged violation.
      4.   Section of the Code allegedly violated.
      5.   Place, date and time of the hearing.
      6.   Right of violator to be represented by a lawyer.
      7.   Right of violator to present witnesses and evidence.
      8.   Notice that failure of violator to attend hearing may result in
additional civil penalties and the administrative cost of the hearing being
assessed against him.
      9.   Notice that requests for continuances will not be considered if not
received by the Special Master at least five (5) calendar days prior to the
date set for hearing.
   C.   The hearing shall be recorded, if possible, and minutes taken by a City
clerical person. The violator may transcribe the hearing at his or her expense.
   D.   All hearings of the Special Master shall be open to the public. All
testimony shall be under oath and may be electronically recorded. Assuming
proper notice, a hearing may proceed in the absence of the named violator.
   E.   A hearing date shall not be postponed or continued unless a request for
continuance, showing good cause for such continuance is received in writing by
the Special Master at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
   F.   Each case before a Special Master shall be presented by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the City Administrator, or his or her designee.
   G.   The hearing need not be conducted in accordance with the formal rules
relating to evidence and witnesses but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings. Any relevant evidence shall be
admitted if the Special Master finds it competent and reliable, regardless of
the existence of any common law or statutory rule to the contrary.
   H.   The Code Enforcement Officer and all other persons giving testimony
shall be sworn in and all testimony shall be given under oath. Each party shall
have the right to call and examine witnesses; to introduce exhibits; to cross-
examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues even though
that matter was not covered in the direct examination; to impeach any witness
regardless of which party first called him to testify; and to rebut the
evidence against him. Either side shall be permitted to give brief opening and
closing statements. The Special Master may, at his or her request, require
written memoranda of each party prior to or following the conclusion of a
hearing. Such memoranda, if submitted, shall be submitted to the Special Master
and all parties to the hearing within the time requested by the Special Master.
   I.   The Special Master shall make findings based on evidence of record. In
order to make a finding upholding the Code Enforcement Officer’s decision, the
Special Master must find that a preponderance of the evidence indicates that
the named violator was responsible for the violation of the relevant section of
the Code as charged. The fact-finding determination of the Special Master shall
be limited to whether the violation alleged did occur and, if so, whether the
person named in the civil violation notice is responsible for that violation as
provided in Section
7.10.04. Based upon this fact-finding determination, the Special Master shall
either reverse, modify, or affirm the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer
as to the responsibility of the named violator for the Code violation, and
shall issue an order affording the proper relief. If the Special Master
reverses the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer and finds the named
violator not responsible for the Code violation alleged in the civil violation
notice, the named violator shall not be liable for the payment of any civil
penalty, absent reversal of the Special Master's findings pursuant to Section
7.10.08. If the Special Master affirms the decision of the Code Enforcement
Officer, the Special Master shall issue an order and shall determine a
reasonable time period within which correction of the violation must be made.
If the decision of the Special Master is to affirm, then the following elements
shall be included in the order:
      1.   Amount of civil penalty.
      2.   Administrative costs of hearing.
      3.   Date by which the violation must be corrected to prevent imposition
of continuing violation penalties (if applicable).
   J.   If the named violator is found guilty of the violation, he may be held
liable for the reasonable costs of the administrative hearing as set forth by
the City Clerk. If the City prevails in prosecuting a case before the Special
Master, the City shall be entitled to recover all costs incurred in prosecuting
the case before the Special Master and such costs will be included in the lien
authorized under Code Section
7.10.07.
   K.   If the violation is one which presents a serious threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare or if the violation is irreparable or irreversible
in nature, then the Special Master shall recommend to the City to undertake all
reasonable repairs which are required to bring the property into compliance and
charge the violator with the reasonable cost of the repairs along with the fine
imposed pursuant to this section. Making such repairs does not create a
continuing obligation on the part of the City to make further repairs or to
maintain the property and does not create liability against the City for any
damages to the property if such repairs were completed in good faith.
   L.   If the owner of property which is subject to an enforcement action or
proceeding transfers ownership of such property between the time the initial
citation or citations were issued and the time of the hearing, such owner
shall:
      1.   Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the proceeding
to the prospective transferee.
      2.   Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of the pleadings,
notices, and other materials relating to the code enforcement proceeding
received by the transferor.
      3.   Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new
owner will be responsible for compliance with the applicable code and with
orders issued in the code enforcement proceeding.
      4.   File a notice with the Special Master of the transfer of the
property, with the identity and address of the new owner and copies of the
disclosures made to the new owner, within five (5) days after the date of
transfer.
   M.   A failure to make the disclosure described in subparagraphs L.1., 2.,
and 3. above, before the transfer creates a rebuttable presumption of fraud. If
the property is transferred before the hearing, the proceeding shall not be
dismissed but the new owner will be added as an additional party of record and
thereafter shall be provided a reasonable period of time as determined by the
Code Enforcement Officer to correct the violation before the hearing is held.
Continuing violation penalties, if any, shall continue to accrue against the
original party. No civil penalty or continuing violation penalties shall accrue
against the new owner until and unless the new owner shall fail to correct the
violation within the reasonable period provided to the new owner. All parties
shall be jointly and severally liable for any penalties that are common to them
both, and the amounts paid to the City shall be first applied to that common,
joint and several amount.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.06   Civil Penalties and other Remedies upon Violation.
   A.   Penalties for violations of the ordinances to be enforced by this
chapter shall be in the amount prescribed by the Code Enforcement Officer and
described in the Notice of Violation in accordance with this Section.
   B.   An "uncorrectable violation" is a violation which cannot be remedied
after the violation has been committed because the violation constitutes a
single prohibited act of a transitory nature rather than an ongoing condition
or constant circumstance. Each reoccurrence of an uncorrectable violation shall
constitute a separate violation and shall subject the violator to an additional
penalty in the same amount as that prescribed for the original violation. If,
however, a violator has been once found guilty of an uncorrectable violation,
and causes the same uncorrectable violation to occur a second time, each
reoccurrence of the uncorrectable violation by such violator shall constitute a
"repeat violation" as provided in Section
7.10.06.D.
   C.   "Continuing violations" are those violations which remain uncorrected
beyond the reasonable time period for correction contained in either the civil
violation notice or the final order of the Special Master, whichever is
applicable. For each day of continued violation after the time for correction
has run, an additional penalty in the same amount as that prescribed for the
original violation shall be added. The maximum total fine for any one (1)
continuing violation shall not exceed thirty (30) times the original penalty
amount.
   D.   A "repeat violation" is a recurring violation of an ordinance by a
violator who has been found guilty of the same violation within five (5) years
prior to the present violation, or who has admitted violating the same
provision within five (5) years prior to the present violation, notwithstanding
the violations occurred at different locations. For the first repeat violation,
the amount of the civil penalty shall be double the amount of penalty
prescribed for the original violation. The amount of civil penalty due for each
subsequent repeat violation shall be double the amount of penalty due for the
first day of the immediately preceding violation, provided that the maximum
penalty payable for the first day of any one (1) repeat violation shall be
$500.00. A repeat violation which remains uncorrected beyond the time
prescribed for correction in the civil violation notice shall be treated as a
continuing violation.
   E.   A "correctable violation" is a violation which is not an uncorrectable
violation.
   F.   A civil penalty imposed pursuant to this Section shall not exceed
$250.00 per day for a first violation and shall not exceed $500.00 per day for
a repeat violation.
   G.   If a request for administrative hearing is not timely filed continuing
violation penalties shall accrue from the date of correction given in the civil
violation notice until the correction is made and payment of fine is received.
If the named violator requests an administrative hearing on a correctable
violation and loses his appeal, the Special Master shall determine a reasonable
time period within which correction of the violation must be made, based on the
considerations set forth in Section
7.10.04. If correction is not made within the period set by the Special Master,
continuing violation penalties shall begin after the time for correction has
run. No continuing violation penalties shall accrue during the time period from
the date of the civil violation notice until the date of the administrative
hearing, if the named violator timely requests an administrative hearing to
appeal the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer. Continuing violation
penalties cannot be imposed by the Special Master for uncorrectable violations.
   H.   Civil penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter are due and payable
to the City Clerk, on the last day of the period allowed for the filing of a
request for an administrative hearing, or if an appeal to the Special Master is
made, on the last day of the period allowed for the filing of an appeal to the
Circuit Court from the Special Master’s decision, or, if proper appeal is made,
when the appeal has been finally decided adversely to the named violator.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.07   Administrative fines; Cost of Repair; Liens; Recovery of Unpaid
Civil Penalties; Foreclosure.
   A.   The City of Mexico Beach may institute proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to compel payment of civil penalties. In an action to
compel payment of civil penalties, the prevailing party is entitled to recover
all costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee, that it incurred in the
action. The City shall be entitled to collect all costs incurred in recording
and satisfying a valid lien.
   B.   A certified copy of an order imposing a civil penalty, or a penalty
plus repair costs, may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall
constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists or, if the
violator does not own the land, upon any other real or personal property owned
by the violator. Upon petition to the circuit court, such order shall be
enforceable in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this
State, including execution and levy against the personal property of the
violator, but such order shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for
enforcement purposes. After three (3) months from the filing of any such lien
which remains unpaid, the City of Mexico Beach may foreclose or otherwise
execute on the lien.
   C.   If an order is recorded in the public records, and the order is
complied with by the date specified in the order, the Special Master, City
Clerk, or City Attorney shall issue an order acknowledging compliance that
shall be recorded in the public records. A hearing is not required to issue
such an order acknowledging compliance.
   D.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code, no municipal officer,
agent, employee or board shall approve, grant, or issue any operating permit,
license, building permit, certificate of use and occupancy, occupational
licenses, platting action or zoning action to any named violator, the owner of
at least ninety percent (90%) of the named violator, or any entity wholly owned
by a named violator with:
      1.   unpaid civil penalties;
      2.   unpaid administrative costs of hearing;
      3.   unpaid investigative, enforcement, testing or monitoring costs; or
      4.   unpaid liens, any or all of which are owed to the City pursuant to
the provisions of the Code of the City of Mexico Beach.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.08   Appeals
   A.   An aggrieved party, including the City of Mexico Beach, may appeal a
final Administrative Order of the Special Master to the Fourteenth Judicial
Circuit of Bay County. Such an appeal shall not be a hearing de novo but shall
be limited to appellate review of the record created before the Special Master.
An appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days of the execution of the Order
to be appealed.
   B.   Unless the findings of the Special Master are overturned in a
proceeding held pursuant to Section
7.10.08A., all findings of the Special Master shall be admissible in any
proceeding to collect unpaid penalties.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.10.09   Provisions contained herein supplemental.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the City from enforcing its
Code by any other means and the City may choose to collect costs or penalties
hereunder pursuant to its special assessment ordinances, to the extent
permitted by Florida law. The enforcement procedures outlined herein are
cumulative to all others and shall not be deemed to be prerequisites to filing
suit for the enforcement of any section of this Code.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.11.00   NUISANCES, UNLAWFUL ACCUMULATIONS, AND GROWTHS
   7.11.01   Definitions
As used in this article the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
it in this section:
   Nuisance
      The term nuisance shall mean any of the following:
      1.   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, piles of dirt, etc.
      2.   Any excessive accumulation of untended growth of weeds, undergrowth,
or other dead or living plant life upon a parcel of land, developed and not in
a natural state.
      3.   Any grass, underbrush, or weeds which exceed twelve (12) inches in
height.
      4.   Any unsafe dwelling, structure, or boat dock/pier which has any of
the following conditions, such that life, health, property, or safety of its
occupants or the general public are endangered:
         a.   Any means of egress or portion thereof is not of adequate size or
is not arranged to provide a safe path of travel in case of fire or panic.
         b.   Any means of egress or portion thereof, such as, but not limited
to, fire doors, closing devices, and fire resistive ratings, is in disrepair or
in a dilapidated or nonworking condition such that the means of ingress could
be rendered unsafe in case of fire or panic.
         c.   The stress in any material, member, or portion thereof, due to
all imposed loads, including dead load, exceeds the stresses allowed in the
Florida Building code.
         d.   The building structure or portion thereof has been damaged by
fire, flood, earthquake, wind or other cause to the extent that the structural
integrity of the building or structure is less than it was prior to the damage
and is less than the minimum requirements established by the Florida Building
code.
         e.   Any exterior appendage or portion of the building or structure is
not securely fastened, attached, or anchored such that it is capable of
resisting wind, seismic or similar loads as required by the Florida Building
code.
         f.   If for any reason the building, structure, or portion thereof is
manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose for which it is being used.
         g.   The building, structure, or portion thereof as a result of decay,
deterioration, or dilapidation is likely to fully or partially collapse.
         h.   Any building, structure, or portion thereof that is in such a
condition as to constitute a public nuisance.
         i.   Any building, structure, or portion thereof that is in violation
of the housing, building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, sanitation, and
fire codes of the City.
         j.   Unfit for human habitation, if so intended or used.
         k.   Any building, structure, or portion thereof that is dangerous to
life or property of the occupant thereof or of the surrounding areas.
         l.   Any building, structure, or portion thereof that is habitually
used as a place from which criminal activity is conducted.
      5.   Unsheltered storage for a period of thirty (30) days or more within
the corporate limits of this City of vehicles, boats, machinery, implements, or
equipment or personal property of any kind which are no longer safely usable
for the purposes for which they were manufactured.
      6.   For the purposes of this article, the term nuisance shall include,
but is not limited to, any of the following: abandoned, discarded, unused
objects or equipment such as automobiles, boats, furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, cans, or containers.
      7.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
      8.   Except as otherwise authorized in the Stormwater Management
Regulations, any wholly or partially manmade pool, pond, other body of water;
depression or excavation, or any other condition on the premises wherein water
may accumulate and stand in such a manner as to make possible the propagation
or production of disease vectors, biting insects, pests, or the like.
      9.   Any of the conditions that occurs or exists in or upon any
structure, lot, tract, or parcel in the City to an extent that may reasonably
cause to be infested with or inhabited by rodents, vermin, reptiles, or wild
animals, or that may create a breeding place for such in a manner that and/or
may threaten or endanger the public health, safety, or welfare.
      10.   The unsheltered storage of any vehicle, boat, or parts thereof,
without a valid license plate shall be prima facie evidence that said property
is scrapped, non-operative, unusable, or discarded.
      11.   Any vehicles undergoing repairs of duration of more than seventy-
two (72) hours must be stored and repaired out of sight of the general public
and not in the front yard of the residence or property.
      12.   Any dead or dying trees of any height within the proximity of
another’s property which would endanger the safety of other people or the
property of another person by falling over or dropping over broken branches and
limbs. This includes trees which, being dead or dying have a high potential of
falling and damaging public utility wires or poles. This will be considered a
public safety hazard.
      13.   Unlawful accumulations of dirt or similar materials.
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on
any premises, anywhere within the corporate limits of the City, improved or
vacant, any piles of dirt or similar materials that may be permitted to remain
thereon unless such materials are to be used immediately thereafter for lawful
development purposes.
         b.   The purpose and intent of the regulation is to prevent any
accumulation for any extended time, which creates a public eyesore.
      14.   Operation of vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle upon
the public beach; provided with exception that this provision shall not apply
to regular employees of the City working under the direction and supervision of
the City or those persons authorized by the City Administrator or his designee
for specific purposes such as City contractors, outside maintenance crews, the
Turtle Patrol, or special event work crews under the terms and conditions
contained in such organizations.
      15.   Soliciting, Collecting, etc., upon streets.
         a.   No person shall approach a motor vehicle being operated on a
public street open for vehicular traffic for any of the following purposes:
            1.   Soliciting or attempting to solicit donations of money or of
property of any kind of charitable, religious, educational, benevolent, or any
other purposes from any occupant of the motor vehicle.
            2.   Collecting or attempting to collect donations of money or of
property of any kind for charitable, religious, educational, benevolent, or any
other purposes from any occupant of the motor vehicle.
            3.   Soliciting or attempting to solicit employment or the purchase
of property or of services of any nature whatsoever from any occupant of the
motor vehicle. Public Street means those publicly owned streets upon which the
public has the right to travel by use of motor vehicle, including the travel
lane of City-owned garages and parking lots.
      16.   Use of skateboards, bikes, roller skates, and in-line skates
prohibited on specific public or private property.
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to operate or ride a skateboard,
roller skates, or inline skates in or upon any of the following locations:
            1.   In any public parking garage, including the access/egress
ramp.
            2.   In any public access ramps or access ramps for handicapped
persons providing pedestrian access to any building.
            3.   On any publicly owned benches, railings, planters, ceramic-
tiled walkways, steps, and curbs.
            4.   On any public or private property where prohibited by
conspicuously located signs having lettering at least two (2) inches high and
containing a minimum wording which states: "No Skating," "No Skateboarding," or
a substantially similar message.
         b.   It is unlawful for operators or riders of skateboards, roller
skates, or in-line skates to fail to yield the right-of-way to any other
pedestrians or to otherwise endanger or interfere with pedestrian traffic on
any street or sidewalk within the City.
      17.   Fish cleaning, disposal of fish wastes, swimming, diving
restricted.
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to clean any fish upon the
piers, seawalls or walks, or upon any other portion of City owned piers or
marina property within the City.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of fish carcasses,
wastes, or other fish byproducts into the canal system of the City.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim or dive from any City
owned piers, seawalls, or walkways of the canal property, or from any
watercraft docked at the marina. The provisions of this subsection shall not be
applicable to any City employee, watercraft owner, or their agent from entering
into the waters in or around the marina to inspect or clean the bottom of any
watercraft docked in the marina or conduct maintenance to any seawall or dock.
      18.   False alarm calls.
         a.   The City will allow three (3) false alarms that result in a call
be dispatched to law enforcement within any sixty (60) day period.
         b.   The City will charge a fee of $100.00 for every call that is
dispatched after third false alarm.
      19.   Fireworks.
   Any person who is involved in the use of fireworks which have been
determined illegal by the State of Florida, shall be guilty of a violation
under this section.
         a.   Any person who is involved in the use of fireworks which are
illegal and results in a response by law enforcement or creates a public
nuisance by the use of such.
         b.   Exception: Any approved public display as approved by the City
Administrator.
      20.   Sleeping on municipal beaches in the nighttime prohibited.
         a.   Legislative intent. It is the intent of the City Council in the
adoption of this section to preserve and protect the beauty of the City’s
public beaches since such beaches are invaluable natural assets which are held
in trust by the City for recreational use by residents and visitors alike. The
City Council has made the following findings in reaching the determination that
sleeping on the City’s beaches during nighttime hours must be prohibited.
            1.   The City’s beaches are its most valuable natural asset.
            2.   The City’s beaches are intended to be used solely for
recreational purposes and are not intended to be used for sleeping during
nighttime hours.
            3.   The City’s economic well being is substantially dependent upon
tourism which is, in turn, dependent on maintaining attractive and inviting
beaches. Permitting persons to sleep upon the City’s beaches during nighttime
hours will negatively affect the appearance of the City’s beaches, will have a
deleterious effect upon the City’s tourism industry, and will require an
unwarranted expenditure of City funds in order to provide a reasonable safe and
healthy sleeping environment for those who may choose to sleep upon the City’s
beaches during nighttime hours.
            4.   Persons asleep on the City’s beaches during nighttime hours
are exposed to the risk of harm from others and from the elements.
            5.   Prohibiting persons from sleeping upon the City’s beaches
during nighttime hours will promote the public health, safety and welfare.
         b.   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to sleep on any
public beach within the corporate limits of the City between the hours of 6:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
         c.   Sleeping on streets, avenues, etc. No person shall sleep on any
of the streets, avenues, or other public property of the City.
      21.   Permit Required.
   No person shall stage, promote, conduct, or manage either as owner,
principal entertainer, or entrepreneur, within the City of Mexico Beach, a
musical or entertainment festival unless he shall first secure from the City
Administrator a special entertainment permit for such festival.
      22.   Right of Entry by the City.
   The City Administrator and his or her agents shall have the right to enter
upon real property, consistent with State and federal law, and shall be immune
from prosecution, civil and criminal, for trespassing upon such real property,
in the discharge of his, her, or their duties in the removing, termination, or
abating a public nuisance under this article.
      23.   Such other acts or conditions which are declared by other
ordinances to be or constitute nuisances.
         (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.02   Powers and Duties of the Inspector; Determination of Interested
Parties
   A.   The inspector shall be charged with the duty of administering the
applicable standards and securing compliance wherewith and in furtherance of
this responsibility, the inspector shall:
      1.   Make such inspections as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes
and intent of this chapter.
      2.   Investigate any complaints of alleged violation of this chapter and
maintain a log reflecting the resolution thereof; however, only matters or
conditions pertinent to the existence of a nuisance shall be considered or
reported by the inspector.
   B.   When the inspector verifies the existence of a nuisance involving an
unfit or unsafe structure, it shall be his duty to promptly prepare and submit
to the Chief of the Department of Public Safety the notice and order required
by this article. The City Administrator and Building Inspector, shall determine
the owner of record of the real estate upon which the nuisance is located and
send a notice and order of condemnation to such party. In addition, notice
shall be given to the lessee or occupants, if any, and persons of record
interest, including mortgagee, contract purchaser, agent with power of
attorney, person claiming an interest under lis pendens and the like.
   C.   Where the inspector verifies the existence of a nuisance not involving
an unsafe or unfit structure, the inspector shall serve the notice and order
upon the record owner of the premises reflected by the latest tax rolls and
upon any occupant of the premises, if other than the owner.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.03   Notice and Order of Inspector
   A.   The notice and order of the inspector may require the cutting of weeds
or underbrush or the removal of rubbish or such other measures as are
reasonably necessary to abate the nuisance.
   B.   The notice and order of the inspector may require the vacation,
demolition, or removal of any unfit or unsafe dwelling or structure, or may
order the repair, restoration, or replacement of any part of same.
   C.   In the case of an unfit or unsafe dwelling or structure, this notice
and order shall require the owner and other interested parties within thirty
(30) days after service to obtain a permit and begin specified repairs or
improvements, or begin to demolish and remove the dwelling or structure or
portion thereof. This work shall be completed within sixty (60) days from the
date of the permit for repair or demolition. Any demolition permit necessary as
a result of any condemnation in this section shall not require a fee.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this article for unsafe or unfit
dwellings or structures, the inspector may order such work to be completed
within such time as he determines to be reasonable considering the nature of
the nuisance, the danger to the public, and the amount of work involved to
abate the nuisance.
   E.   When the City health officer verifies the existence of a rodent
infestation in any dwelling or structure that is to be demolished and removed,
in order to preclude the migration of rodents, the notice and order of the
building official shall require that effective rodent extermination methods be
employed by a licensed structural pest control operator prior to demolition.
Extermination techniques shall include ectoparasite control measures.
   F.   In the case of an unfit and unsafe dwelling or structure, which after
inspection is determined to be uninhabited, the inspector shall cause to be
posted a “No Trespassing” sign to prevent entry into the premises by third
parties who might be exposed to the risk of danger created by the unsafe
structure.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.04   Criminal Penalties
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any landowner to suffer, maintain, or permit
to remain any accumulation of rubbish or trash, abandoned vehicles, boats,
refrigerators, stoves, household articles, other appliances, furniture, junk,
abandoned equipment, or other nuisances as defined in Section
7.11.01.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any previously developed lot
located within Mexico Beach to suffer, maintain, or permit to remain dangerous
trees or any accumulation of grass, weeds, or undergrowth as defined in Section
7.11.01. (Wild flowers are exempt.)
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section is guilty of a
civil violation punishable by a fine not exceeding $250.00.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.05   City Action with Failure to Comply
   A.   In the event that the owner or other parties in interest shall fail to
comply with an order made pursuant to the provisions of this Code, the City,
acting through the City Administrator or Mayor, is authorized to vacate,
demolish, or otherwise abate the nuisance in accordance with such order, either
with City forces or by independent contractor.
   B.   Summary Abatement. In addition to the remedies prescribed by this Code,
and cumulative thereof, if it shall be brought to the attention of the City
Council, and it shall be determined that any such nuisance, or nuisances, are
likely to have an immediate adverse effect upon the public health, comfort or
safety, then and in that event, the City Council may, by appropriate resolution
or motion, order such nuisance or nuisances summarily abated by the City in a
reasonably prudent manner.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.06   Recovery by City of Expenses of Nuisance Removal
   A.   The City is damaged by the creation of a nuisance within the City, and
the cost of nuisance removal has become a significant expense of the City. It
is intended that persons responsible for such expenses shall bear the costs of
same. In order to recover the costs of nuisance removal, the City may bring a
civil action against any person believed to be responsible for creation of a
nuisance. The City may, in order to avoid the necessity of the institution of
such action, make an offer of settlement to any person believed to be
responsible for creation of a nuisance. If the settlement offer is accepted, no
action will be instituted by the City.
   B.   If such action is brought, all costs and expenses of nuisance removal
shall be recoverable, as well as injunctive relief to prevent such actions in
the future, and further, the City shall be entitled to recover all reasonable
and actual attorney’s fees and costs incurred in said litigation, including
appellate attorney’s fees and costs.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.11.07   Entry Powers
The inspectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property in order to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. When necessary to obtain such entry,
the inspector may institute appropriate proceedings to obtain a warrant.
   (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
7.12.00   PROVISIONS FOR NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
   7.12.01   Non-conforming Uses
All uses existing on the effective date of this Regulation of any amendment
hereto, that preexisted or were permitted pursuant to the 1991 Mexico Beach
Land Development Codes and have continued pursuant to the standards for
nonconforming uses shall be considered nonconforming under the terms of this
Regulation. Uses not legally permitted by this Regulation or the 1991 Mexico
Beach Land Development Codes or which did not preexist the 1991 Mexico Beach
Land Development Codes shall be considered illegal. This section is to protect
the rights of property owners who have lawfully established and continuously
maintained a use prior to the effective date of this Regulation. These non-
conforming uses may continue in their present condition, but shall not be
substantially enlarged, expanded, extended, or be allowed to add other
structures. In addition, the following regulations apply to non-conforming
uses:
   A.   Vacant Lots. Vacant parcels of record or recorded platted lots that are
within a land use category that allows for residential development and that
existed on or prior to the original adoption date of this Code, shall not be
prohibited from having one (1) dwelling unit due to failing to meet the
otherwise applicable density requirements.
   B.   If a use is discontinued or abandoned for a period of six (6) months or
more, the use may not continue.
   C.   As pursuant to Policy 1.8.4 of the Comprehensive Plan, the use shall be
considered substantially changed, intensified, or expanded from the current use
when an increase in the number of trips generated as deemed by a comparative
analysis utilizing the Institute of Traffic Engineers Trip Generation Manual,
most recent edition.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
   7.12.02   Non-conforming Structures
   A.   Any structure erected on or prior to the original adoption date of this
Code, or amendment of this Regulation, but not permitted thereafter, may
continue or be occupied, provided:
      1.   If the structure is damaged in excess of fifty percent (50%) or more
of the fair market value of the structure at the time of damage or destruction,
any reconstruction shall comply with the current Mexico Beach Comprehensive
Plan and Land Development Code requirements.
      2.   Structures which are deemed historical or historically significant
may rebuild to the historic nature of the development.
      3.   Additions may be constructed on non-conforming structures. However,
any alteration may not exceed any adopted current development standard or
otherwise compound the nonconforming infringement.
      4.   Any lot or parcel that is designated with a Future Land Use that
allows for residential development that existed on or prior to the original
adoption date of this Land Development Code shall not be prohibited by
applicable density requirements from having the same number of dwelling units
as existed on that lot or parcel that were in place on October 9, 2018.
      5.   The provisions of Section
2.02.07E., Limited Setback Waiver, shall remain in force until October 9, 2020.
   B.   Review. In all situations where a building permit is to be issued for a
non-conforming structure, the permit application must be reviewed and approved
in accordance with the requirements of the Minor Residential Development Order,
Section
7.02.02A.1.b.(3) of this Code.
      (Ord. 711, passed 2-5-2019)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Florida Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO FLORIDA STATUTES
F.S. Reference Code Section
F.S. Reference   Code Section
Ch. 50           7.10.045
50.0541          7.10.045
50.051           7.10.045
Ch. 106          5.03.05
161.041          4.05.03
161.053          4.05.01
161.055          4.05.03
161.54           4.05.08
Ch. 163          1.03.00,
                 7.09.03
163.3202         1.01.00
163.3220         7.06.05
163.3220-3234    4.03.05
Ch. 166          1.01.00
166.041          2.03.06
                 2.00.02,
Ch. 177          3.00.04,
                 3.07.00,
                 7.07.00
320.01           4.05.01
320.8249         4.05.11
337.407          5.02.02
366.02           4.05.03
373.036          4.05.03
373.451-373.4595 4.03.07
Ch. 380          7.06.05
381.0065         4.05.03
Ch. 400, Part 2  2.00.02
Ch. 403          4.03.04,
                 4.03.06
403.7234         4.03.07
403.7236         4.03.07
Ch. 442          4.04.03
509.102          2.02.08
Ch. 553, Part V  6.03.00
553.73(5)        4.05.06
553.73(10)(k)    4.05.03
604.50           4.05.03
704.06           4.03.05
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     1.00.00,
                     1.01.00,
                     1.02.01,
                     1.02.02,
                     1.03.01,
                     1.03.02,
                     1.04.01,
                     1.05.01,
                     1.05.02,
                     1.06.01 -
                     1.06.12,
                     1.07.00,
                     1.08.00,
                     1.09.00, 1.10.00,
                     2.00.01,
                     2.00.02,
                     2.01.00,
                     2.02.01 -
                     2.02.08,
                     2.03.01 -
                     2.03.010,
                     2.04.00 -
                     2.04.03,
                     2.05.02,
                     2.05.03,
                     2.06.01 -
                     2.06.03,
                     2.07.01 -
                     2.07.09,
                     2.08.00,
                     2.09.01 -
                     2.09.05,
                     2.10.01 -
                     2.10.07,
                     2.11.01,
                     3.00.01 -
                     3.00.04,
                     3.01.01,
                     3.02.01,
                     3.03.01 -
                     3.03.03,
                     3.04.01 -
                     3.04.04,
                     3.05.01 -
                     3.05.04,
                     3.06.00,
                     3.07.00,
                     3.08.00,
                     4.00.00,
                     4.01.01 -
                     4.01.07,
711      2-5-2019    4.02.01 -
                     4.02.10,
                     4.03.01 -
                     4.03.07,
                     4.04.01 -
                     4.04.03,
                     4.06.01 -
                     4.06.03,
                     5.00.01 -
                     5.00.04,
                     5.01.00,
                     5.02.01 -
                     5.02.03,
                     5.03.01 -
                     5.03.06,
                     5.04.01 -
                     5.04.06,
                     5.05.01,
                     5.05.02,
                     5.06.01 -
                     5.06.05,
                     5.07.01 -
                     5.07.09,
                     5.08.01 -
                     5.08.04,
                     5.09.00 -
                     5.09.02,
                     5.10.00,
                     6.01.00,
                     6.02.00,
                     6.03.00,
                     6.04.00,
                     6.05.00,
                     6.06.00,
                     7.00.00 -
                     7.00.02,
                     7.01.01 -
                     7.01.04,
                     7.02.01 -
                     7.02.04,
                     7.03.00,
                     7.04.01,
                     7.05.01,
                     7.06.00 -
                     7.06.07,
                     7.07.00,
                     7.08.00,
                     7.10.01 -
                     7.10.09,
                     7.11.01 -
                     7.11.07,
                     7.12.01,
                     7.12.02
716      4-23-2019   2.03.01 -
                     2.03.010
                     4.05.01 -
719      5-28-2019   4.05.14,
                     4.06.02
                     4.06.01,
720      5-28-2019   4.06.02,
                     4.06.03
727      7-23-2019   2.02.02
729      8-27-2019   2.02.02
736      11-12-2019  7.02.02
737      11-12-2019  2.02.055
739      10-14-2019  7.02.02
744      5-12-2020   2.02.02
757      12-18-2020  4.05.01 -
                     4.05.14
764      -13-2021    3.07.00,
                     3.08.00
765      8-10-2021   2.02.02, Repeals 2.05.01
775      10-26-2021  7.02.02
779      1-11-2022   2.02.08
781      4-12-2022   2.02.07
791      8-23-2022   2.02.04
804      1-10-2023   6.03.00
819      11-14-2023  1.12.00
                     1.00.00,
                     1.05.01,
                     1.05.02,
                     1.10.00,
                     1.12.01 -
819      11-14-2023  1.12.06,
                     7.02.02,
                     7.04.00,
                     7.04.02, Repeals 7.08.01,
                     7.09.00 -
                     7.09.03
833      2-13-2024   2.02.02
 
 
