TOWN CODE
OF
AKRON, COLORADO
Code current through:
Ord. 599, passed 11-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Akron, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 599, passed November 15, 2024. Ordinances of the
Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
AKRON MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Akron. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the AKRON MUNICIPAL CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments By Ordinance:
      1.   Any additions or amendments to this code shall be adopted as
ordinances as required by state law, and when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention to make the same a part thereof, shall be incorporated
into this code so that reference to it as the code of the town of Akron, shall
be understood as including such additions or amendments. (1997 Code § 1.04.090)
      2.   Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the town
code. (2016 Code)
   B.   Reference Applies To All Amendments: Whenever a reference is made to
this code as the "Akron municipal code" or to any portion thereof, or to any
ordinance of the town codified herein, the reference shall apply to all
amendments, corrections, and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made. (1997
Code § 1.01.030)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the town and shall be returned to the office of the town
clerk when directed so to do by order of the town board of trustees. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Ordinances promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of
the town's indebtedness.
      2.   Any appropriation ordinance providing for the levy of taxes or
prescribing salaries for town officers.
      3.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      4.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      5.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, or accepting the beneficial interest in
any trust.
      6.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places.
      7.   Improvement ordinances.
      8.   Bond ordinances.
      9.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      10.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the town.
      11.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All such ordinances shall continue in full force and effect to the same
extent as if fully set out herein. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Reviving Prior Ordinances: The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal
the repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been
repealed thereby. (1997 Code § 1.04.120)
   B.   Effect Of New Ordinance: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to
repeal a former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed
or not, as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any
act done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right
accrued or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to
affect any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising
before the new ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings
thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time of such
proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by
consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new
ordinance takes effect.
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the effective date hereof. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
The adoption of this code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations
committed prior to the effective date of this code, does not waive any fee or
penalty due and unpaid on the effective date of this code, and does not affect
the validity of any bond or cash deposit posted, filed or deposited pursuant to
the requirements of any ordinance. (1997 Code § 1.01.070)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted by reference or
any codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The board of
trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
   B.   It is further declared that if any provision or part of this code, or
the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the
remainder of this code and the application thereof to other persons shall not
be affected thereby. (1997 Code § 1.04.100; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words; Interpretations
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Construction
1-3-4: References To Prior Code Or To Specific Ordinances
1-3-5: Acts By Agents
1-3-6: Title, Chapter And Section Headings
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS; INTERPRETATIONS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and town board of trustees may be
fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to town ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other town officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive and discretionary; the word
"shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing. Words
used in the plural number may also include the singular unless a contrary
intention plainly appears.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the town of Akron".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future, past
and present where applicable unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
(2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR TOWN BOARD: The board of trustees of the town of Akron,
Colorado.
CRS: Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended.
CODE: The municipal code of the town of Akron, Colorado.
COUNTY: Washington County, Colorado.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
STATE: The state of Colorado.
TOWN: The town of Akron, Colorado, or the area within the territorial limits of
the town over which the town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision. (1997 Code § 1.04.020; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of the ordinances of the town, and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(1997 Code § 1.04.080)
1-3-4: REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE OR TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
   A.   Prior Code: References in town forms, documents and regulations to the
chapters and sections of the former town code shall be construed to apply to
the corresponding provisions contained within this code. (1997 Code § 1.01.090)
   B.   Specific Ordinances: The provisions of this code shall not in any
manner of record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with ordinances
which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are
included within this code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to
the corresponding provisions contained within this code. (1997 Code § 1.01.050)
1-3-5: ACTS BY AGENTS:
When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include such acts performed by an authorized agent. (1997 Code §
1.04.050)
1-3-6: TITLE, CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS:
Title, chapter and section headings contained in this code shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent
of the provisions of any title, chapter or section in this code. (1997 Code §
1.01.040)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty; Continuing Violations
1-4-2: Aiding And Abetting
1-4-3: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting
1-4-4: Application Of Provisions
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this Code or any other ordinance or
resolution of the Town or any rule or regulation promulgated under the
provisions of this Code any act is prohibited or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor or the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, any person who shall be convicted of the
violation of any such provision of this Code or other ordinance or resolution
of the Town hereafter enacted or of such rules or regulations shall be punished
by a fine of not more than two thousand six hundred fifty dollars ($2,650.00).
   B.   Each Day Separate Offense: Every day any violation of this Code or any
other ordinance or resolution of the Town or any rule or regulation promulgated
under the provisions of this Code occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 546, 4-3-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. CRS § 13-10-113.
1-4-2: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspired to commit, or aids or
abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be in violation of this
Code or the ordinances of the Town, whether individually, or in connection with
one or more persons as a principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such
offense, and every person who fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces,
causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any ordinance
of the Town is likewise guilty of such offense. (1997 Code § 1.12.010; amd.
2016 Code)
1-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:
Whenever in this Code or the ordinances of the Town any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1997 Code §
1.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)
1-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Town Board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Authority
1-5-2: Board Qualifications, Vacancies And Terms
1-5-3: Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem And Acting Mayor
1-5-4: Salaries
1-5-5: Meetings
1-5-6: Quorum
1-5-7: Order Of Business
1-5-8: Actions Of Board; Ordinance Adoption
1-5-9: Committees
1-5-10: Intergovernmental Contracts
1-5-1: CORPORATE AUTHORITY:
The corporate authority of the town shall be vested in a board of trustees,
consisting of one mayor and six (6) trustees, who shall be registered electors
who have resided within the limits of the town for a period of at least twelve
(12) consecutive months immediately preceding the date of the election;
provided, that in case of annexation, any person who has resided within the
annexed territory for the time prescribed shall be deemed to have met the
residence requirements of the town. (1997 Code § 2.04.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-2: BOARD QUALIFICATIONS, VACANCIES AND TERMS:
   A.   Authority: The board of trustees shall constitute the legislative body
of the town and shall have power and authority, except as otherwise provided by
statute, to exercise all power conferred upon or possessed by the town, and
shall have the power and authority to adopt such laws, ordinances and
resolutions as it shall deem proper in the exercise thereof.
   B.   Qualifications: Each trustee shall be a resident of the town and a
qualified elector therein. If any trustee shall move from or become, during the
term of his office, a nonresident of the town, he shall be deemed thereby to
have vacated his office, upon the adoption by the board of trustees of a
resolution declaring such vacancy to exist.
   C.   Filling Vacancies: In case of death, resignation, vacation or removal
for cause, of any of the town officers during their term of office, the board
by a majority vote of all the members thereof, may select and appoint from
among the duly qualified electors of the town, a suitable person to fill the
vacancy, who shall hold the office until the next biennial town election. (1997
Code § 2.04.050)
   D.   Terms: The mayor shall serve a two (2) year term. Six (6) trustees
shall serve four (4) year terms, with three (3) trustees elected every two (2)
years. (1997 Code § 2.04.070; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR, MAYOR PRO TEM AND ACTING MAYOR:
   A.   Duties Of Mayor:
      1.   The mayor shall preside over the meetings of the board of trustees,
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by statute or
ordinance.
      2.   Insofar as required by statute, and for all ceremonial purposes, the
mayor shall be the executive head of the town. He shall be the presiding
officer of the board of trustees and shall vote when there is a tie.
      3.   He shall execute and authenticate by his signature such instruments
as the trustees, or any statutes or ordinances, shall require.
      4.   Except as may be required by statute, the mayor shall exercise only
such powers as the trustees shall confer upon him. (1997 Code § 2.04.020)
   B.   Mayor Pro Tem: At its first meeting following each biennial election,
the board shall choose one of the trustees as mayor pro tem who, in the absence
of the mayor from any meeting of the board or during the mayor's absence from
the town, or his inability to act, shall perform the duties of mayor. (1997
Code § 2.04.030)
   C.   Acting Mayor: In the event of absence or disability of both the mayor
and mayor pro tem, the trustees may designate another of its members to serve
as acting mayor during such absence or disability. (1997 Code § 2.04.040)
1-5-4: SALARIES:
The salaries of elected officials shall be as follows:
 
Mayor    $500.00 per annum, plus $25.00 for each regular meeting attended
Trustees $250.00 per annum, plus $25.00 for each regular meeting attended
 
(1997 Code § 2.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Unless otherwise changed by resolution, the trustees
shall hold regular meetings beginning at six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on the first
Monday of every month provided, however, that when the day fixed for any
regular meeting of the board falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or
national holiday, such meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next
succeeding day not a holiday. All regular meetings of the board will be held in
the boardroom or in such other place as the board may by resolution designate.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor, or in
his absence, by the mayor pro tem or the town administrator at their
discretion.
(1997 Code §§ 2.04.080 and 2.04.090; amd. Ord. 586, 6-5-2023; Ord. 596, 8-5-
2024)
1-5-6: QUORUM:
No action shall be taken unless a quorum is present. A majority of the trustees
shall constitute a quorum. A lesser number may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members. (1997 Code § 2.04.100)
1-5-7: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business of a board meeting shall be as follows:
   A.   Call To Order: The mayor shall take the chair precisely at the hour
appointed for the meeting, and shall immediately call the board to order. The
mayor or temporary chairman shall preserve the order and decorum, decide all
questions of order and conduct the proceedings of the meeting in accordance
with the parliamentary rules contained in "Robert's Rules Of Order" unless
otherwise provided by ordinance.
   B.   Roll Call: Before proceeding with the business of the board, the clerk
or his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those
present shall be entered in the minutes.
   C.   Reading The Minutes: Unless a reading of the minutes of a board meeting
is requested by a member of the board, the minutes of the preceding meeting,
which have been furnished by the clerk to each trustee, shall be considered
approved, if correct, and errors rectified if any exist. (1997 Code § 2.04.110)
   D.   Scheduled Appearances: The board shall consider officials and others
who have requested appearance before the board.
   E.   Public Invited To Be Heard: Petitions, remonstrances, communications
and comments or suggestions from citizens present shall be heard by the board.
All such remarks shall be addressed to the board as a whole, and not to any
member thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to a reasonable time and such
determination will be in the discretion of the presiding officers. No person
other than the individual speaking shall enter into the discussion without the
permission of the presiding officer.
   F.   General Items Of Business: The board shall consider any business
related issues.
   G.   Reports By Officers: Town officials and/or committees shall present
such reports as may be required by the board.
   H.   Adjournment: The board may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate. (1997 Code § 2.04.110;
amd. 2016 Code)
1-5-8: ACTIONS OF BOARD; ORDINANCE ADOPTION:
   A.   Ordinance, Resolution Or Motion Required; Roll Call Vote: Every subject
coming before the board for its action shall be submitted by ordinance,
resolution or motion. The clerk shall call the roll and the vote thereon shall
be taken by ayes and nays. (1997 Code § 2.04.120; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Adoption Of Ordinances: No ordinance shall be passed finally on the
date it is introduced, except in cases of special emergency, for the
preservation of the public peace, health or safety, and then only by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the members of the board. In all
other cases, an ordinance shall be introduced and read at one regular meeting
of the board, and if the ordinance is passed on first reading, the ordinance
shall be read by title only and again voted upon at the next regular meeting of
the board. If the ordinance receives the required vote on its second reading,
the same shall be duly adopted. (1997 Code § 2.04.130)
   C.   Vote Required: The mayor shall not vote upon any question except in the
case of a tie vote, when he shall be allowed to cast a vote. All ordinances,
all resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money, all resolutions or
orders to enter into contract, and all appointments of officers shall require
for the passage or adoption the concurrence of a majority of all members
elected to the board. In all cases other than this, a majority of the votes
cast is sufficient for passage except in cases of special emergency for the
preservation of the public peace, health or safety, and then only by
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the members of the board. (1997 Code
§ 2.04.140)
   D.   Publication Of Ordinances: All ordinances, as soon as may be possible
after their passage, shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, and
authenticated by the signature of the mayor and clerk. All ordinances of a
general or permanent nature, and those imposing any fine, penalty, or
forfeiture, shall be published in the "Akron News Reporter". Such ordinances
shall not take effect until thirty (30) days after such publication, except for
ordinances calling for special elections or necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health or safety which shall take effect in
five (5) days. The reasons making the ordinances necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health or safety shall be set forth in a
separate section. Codes may also be adopted by reference as provided by state
law. (1997 Code § 2.04.150)
1-5-9: COMMITTEES:
Any question pending before the board may be referred to the appropriate
committee, or to a special committee, for its consideration and report. When a
question has been referred to a committee, such committee shall report thereon
with its recommendation at the next meeting. (1997 Code § 2.04.160)
1-5-10: INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS:
The board of trustees shall have the authority on behalf of the town to enter
into contractual arrangements with one or more other local governments for the
performance of any governmental service, activity or undertaking which could be
performed by each of the local governments. Any such contract shall set forth
fully the purposes, powers, rights, obligations and the responsibilities,
financial and otherwise, of the contracting parties. Such contract may be
approved by the board by resolution or by ordinance. (1997 Code § 2.04.170)
CHAPTER 6
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Oath And Bond
1-6-2: Removal Of Officers
1-6-3: Salaries And Compensation
1-6-4: Public Works Director (Rep. by Ord. 593, 6-14-2024)
1-6-1: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath: All officers elected or appointed in any capacity shall take an
oath to support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of
the state of Colorado.
   B.   Bond Premiums Paid By Town: The board of trustees may provide that the
payment of premiums on surety bonds of any officer of the town shall be made by
the town treasurer from funds so designated by the board. (1997 Code §
2.08.040)
1-6-2: REMOVAL OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Elected Officials: By the concurrent vote of four (4) members of the
board of trustees, the mayor, or any member of the board, or any elective
officer of the town, may be removed from office. No such removal shall be made
without a charge in writing and an opportunity of hearing being given, unless
the officer against whom the charge is made shall cease to reside within the
limits of the town.
   B.   Appointed Officers Or Employees: Any officer or employee appointed by
the board of trustees may be removed from office or suspended for a specific
time, with or without pay, by a majority vote of the board of trustees whenever
such officer shall, after a hearing before the board, be found guilty of a
dereliction or violation of his duty or conduct unbecoming an officer or
incompetency. (1997 Code § 2.08.030)
1-6-3: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:
The board of trustees shall fix the salaries and compensation of all officers
of the town. (1997 Code § 2.08.010)
1-6-4: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 593, 6-14-2024)
CHAPTER 7
SPECIFIC TOWN OFFICIALS
ARTICLE A. TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment
1-7A-2: Functions And Duties
1-7A-3: Board Responsibility
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT:
The board of trustees may appoint a town administrator within ninety (90) days
after any vacancy exists in such position. The town administrator shall hold
office at the pleasure of the majority of the board. (1997 Code § 2.12.010)
1-7A-2: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:
The town administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the town
government. The functions and duties of the town administrator may, at the
option of the board, be combined with the duties of the town clerk. (1997 Code
§ 2.12.020)
1-7A-3: BOARD RESPONSIBILITY:
Nothing in this article shall impair the responsibility of the board for the
overall operation of the town government as required by the laws of the state
of Colorado. (1997 Code § 2.12.030)
ARTICLE B. TOWN CLERK
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment
1-7B-2: Oath And Bond
1-7B-3: Duties; Other Offices
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT:
The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified person as town clerk. In case a vacancy
should occur in the office of clerk, the board shall appoint a clerk for the
unexpired term. (1997 Code § 2.16.010)
1-7B-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the clerk shall take an oath of
office and furnish a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his duties as town
clerk. (1997 Code § 2.16.020)
1-7B-3: DUTIES; OTHER OFFICES:
   A.   Duties: The town clerk shall perform the following duties:
      1.   He shall be the clerk of the board and shall attend all meetings of
the board and shall keep a permanent journal of its proceedings. (1997 Code §
2.16.030)
      2.   He shall be the custodian of all of the town's records and such
records shall be open to inspection by the public at all reasonable times and
under reasonable regulations established by the town as provided by Colorado
Revised Statutes title 24, article 72. (1997 Code § 2.16.030; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   He shall certify by his signature all ordinances and resolutions
enacted or passed by the board.
      4.   He shall provide and maintain in his office a supply of forms for
all petitions required to be filed for any purpose provided by the board.
      5.   He or his assistant shall prepare and countersign all checks issued
by the town.
      6.   He shall be custodian of all bonds of all officers or employees of
the town.
      7.   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
law or by the board of trustees.
   B.   Act As Town Treasurer: At the option of the town board, the clerk may
also be appointed town treasurer, and as such shall perform all the duties of
the office of town treasurer.
   C.   Position Combined With Town Administrator: The position of town clerk
may be combined with that of town administrator at the option of the board.
(1997 Code § 2.16.030)
ARTICLE C. TOWN TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Appointment
1-7C-2: Oath And Bond
1-7C-3: Duties; Other Officer
1-7C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified person as town treasurer. In case a
vacancy should occur in the office of treasurer, the board shall appoint a
treasurer for the unexpired term. (1997 Code § 2.20.010)
1-7C-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the treasurer shall take an oath
of office and furnish a surety bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), to be approved by the board of trustees, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties as town treasurer, and when he shall vacate
such office, he will turn over and deliver to his successor all monies, books,
papers, property or things belonging to the town and remaining in his charge as
treasurer. (1997 Code § 2.20.020)
1-7C-3: DUTIES; OTHER OFFICER:
   A.   Duties: The town treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      1.   The treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the town and
give receipts therefor; shall keep his books and accounts in such manner as may
be prescribed by the board; shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto; and shall report to
the board at each regular monthly meeting thereof, the state of the treasury at
the date of such account, and the balance of money in the treasury. He shall
also accompany such statement of accounts with a statement of all monies
received in the treasury and on what account, during the preceding month,
together with all checks redeemed and paid by him and such checks and their
supporting vouchers shall be delivered and filed in the clerk's office upon
every day of such statement. All books and accounts of the treasurer shall
always be subject to inspection of any member of the board.
      2.   He shall perform all other duties, keep all records, and make all
reports that are required by other provisions of this code or by the laws of
the state of Colorado. (1997 Code § 2.20.030; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Town Treasurer Same Person As Town Clerk: At the option of the town
board, the town treasurer may be the same person as the town clerk. (1997 Code
§ 2.20.030)
ARTICLE D. TOWN ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Appointment
1-7D-2: Duties
1-7D-1: APPOINTMENT:
The board of trustees, at its first regular meeting after each biennial
election, shall appoint some qualified attorney at law as the town attorney and
shall fix his compensation. In case a vacancy should occur in the office of
town attorney, the board shall appoint a town attorney for the unexpired term.
(1997 Code § 2.24.010)
1-7D-2: DUTIES:
The town attorney shall perform the following duties:
   A.   He shall act as legal advisor to, and be attorney and counsel for, the
board and shall be responsible solely to the board. He shall advise any officer
or department head of the town in matters relating to his official duties when
so requested by the board and shall file with the clerk a copy of all written
opinions given by him.
   B.   He shall prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds and other
written instruments which are submitted to him by the board and shall promptly
give his opinion as to the legal consequences thereof.
   C.   He shall call to the attention of the board all matters of law, and
changes or developments therein, affecting the town.
   D.   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by the
board. (1997 Code § 2.24.020; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election Procedure
1-8-2: Write In Candidate Affidavit
1-8-3: Cancellation Of Election
1-8-1: ELECTION PROCEDURE:
Municipal elections shall be conducted pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes
title 31. (1997 Code § 2.28.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-2: WRITE IN CANDIDATE AFFIDAVIT:
No write in vote for any elected municipal official shall be counted unless an
affidavit of intent has been filed with the town clerk by the person whose name
is written in prior to sixty-four (64) days before the day of the election
indicating that such person desires the office and is qualified to assume the
duties of that office if elected. (Ord. 568, 6-1-2020)
1-8-3: CANCELLATION OF ELECTION:
If the only matter before the voters is the election of persons to office, and
if at the close of business on the sixty-fourth (64th) day before the election,
there are not more candidates than offices to be filled at such election,
including candidates filing affidavits of intent as write in candidates, the
clerk, if instructed by resolution of the governing body either before or after
such date, shall cancel the election and by resolution declare the candidates
elected. Notice of such cancellation shall be posted at each polling place and
in at least one other public place. (Ord. 568, 6-1-2020)
ARTICLE A. RECALL ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Recall Of Officials
1-8A-2: Petition Procedure
1-8A-3: Protest Procedure
1-8A-4: Insufficient Petition
1-8A-5: Sufficient Petition
1-8A-6: Resignation Of Officer
1-8A-7: Official Recall Ballot
1-8A-8: Result Of Election
1-8A-9: Nomination Of Candidates
1-8A-10: Recall After Six Months
1-8A-11: Second Petition
 
Notes
1 1. CRS § 31-4-502.
1-8A-1: RECALL OF OFFICIALS:
Every elected officer of the town may be recalled from office at any time by
the electors entitled to vote for a successor of such incumbent, through the
procedure provided for in this chapter. (1997 Code §2.32.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8A-2: PETITION PROCEDURE:
The procedure to effect the recall of an elected officer of the town shall be
as follows: (1997 Code §2.32.020; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   A petition shall be signed by electors entitled to vote for a successor
of the incumbent sought to be recalled, equal in number to twenty five percent
(25%) of all ballots cast at the last preceding town election demanding an
election of the successor to the officer named in the petition.
   B.   The petition shall be filed with the town clerk.
   C.   Such petition shall contain a general statement, in not more than two
hundred (200) words of the grounds on which recall is sought.
   D.   Any recall petition may be circulated and signed in sections, provided
each section shall contain a full and accurate copy of the title and text of
the petition.
   E.   Each signer must add his signature, the date of signing, and his place
of residence, giving his street number, if any.
   F.   The person circulating such sheet must make and subscribe an oath on
the sheet that the signatures thereon are genuine, and a false oath, wilfully
so made and subscribed by such person, shall be perjury and punished as such.
(1997 Code §2.32.020)
1-8A-3: PROTEST PROCEDURE:
All petitions shall be deemed and held to be sufficient if they appear to be
signed by the requisite number of signers who shall be deemed and held to be
qualified electors, unless a protest in writing under oath shall be filed with
the town clerk by a qualified elector.
   A.   Such protest must be filed within fifteen (15) days after the petition
is filed.
   B.   The protest must set forth specifically the grounds of such protest.
   C.   The clerk shall forthwith mail a copy of such protest to the persons
named in such petition as representing the signers thereof, together with a
notice fixing a time for hearing such protest not less than five (5) nor more
than ten (10) days after such notice is mailed.
   D.   All hearings shall be held before the clerk and all testimony shall be
under oath.
   E.   Such hearings shall be summary and not subject to delay and must be
concluded within thirty (30) days after such petition is filed. (1997 Code
§2.32.030)
   F.   The result of the hearing shall be certified to the persons
representing the signers of such petition and the officer sought to be
recalled. (1997 Code §2.32.030; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   The finding as to the sufficiency of the petition may be reviewed by
any state court of general jurisdiction in the county. (1997 Code §2.32.030)
1-8A-4: INSUFFICIENT PETITION:
In case the petition is not sufficient, it may be withdrawn by the person or a
majority of the persons representing the signers of such petition, and, within
fifteen (15) days thereafter, may be amended and refiled as an original
petition. (1997 Code §2.32.040)
1-8A-5: SUFFICIENT PETITION:
When such petition is sufficient, the clerk shall forthwith submit the
petition, together with a certificate of its sufficiency, to the board of
trustees. The board shall thereupon order and fix the date for holding an
election, not less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days from
the date of the submission of said petition. If a town election is to be held
within ninety (90) days after the date of submission of the petition, the
recall election shall be held as a part of the election. (1997 Code §2.32.050)
1-8A-6: RESIGNATION OF OFFICER:
If such officer shall offer his resignation, it shall be accepted, and the
vacancy caused by such resignation, or from any other cause, shall be filled as
provided by law; but the person appointed to fill such vacancy shall hold his
office only until the person elected at the recall election shall qualify. If
such officer shall not resign within five (5) days after the sufficiency of the
recall petition shall have been sustained, the board of trustees shall make, or
cause to be made, publication of notice for holding of such election, and the
same shall be conducted, returned, and the result thereof declared in all
respects as in the case of other town elections. (1997 Code §2.32.060)
1-8A-7: OFFICIAL RECALL BALLOT:
   A.   On the official ballot at such elections shall be printed in not more
than two hundred (200) words, the reasons set forth in the petition for
demanding the officer's recall, and in not more than three hundred (300) words
there shall also be printed, if desired by him, the officer's justification of
his course in office. If such officer shall resign at any time subsequent to
filing of the official ballot, the recall election shall be called
notwithstanding such resignation.
   B.   There shall be printed on the official ballot, as to every officer
whose recall is to be voted on, the words, "Shall (name of person against whom
recall petition is filed) be recalled from office of (title of office)?"
Following such question shall be the words "Yes" and "No" on separate lines
with a blank space at the right of each, in which the voter shall indicate, by
marking a cross (X), his vote for or against such recall.
   C.   On such ballots, under each question, there shall also be reprinted the
names of those persons who have been nominated as candidates to succeed the
person sought to be recalled; but no vote cast shall be counted for any
candidate for such office, unless the voter also voted for or against the
recall of such person thought to be recalled from office. The name of the
person against whom the petition is filed shall not appear on the ballot as a
candidate for the office. (1997 Code §2.32.070)
1-8A-8: RESULT OF ELECTION:
   A.   If a majority of those voting on the question of the recall of any
incumbent from office shall vote "No", the incumbent shall continue in office.
If a majority shall vote "Yes", such incumbent shall thereupon be deemed
removed from office upon the qualification of his successor.
   B.   If the vote had in such recall election shall recall the officer, then
the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the office
thereby vacated shall be declared elected for the remainder of the term, and a
certificate of election shall be forthwith issued to him by the canvassing
board. In case the persons who received the highest number of votes shall fail
to qualify within fifteen (15) days after the issuance of a certificate of
election, the office shall be deemed vacant, and shall be filled according to
law. (1997 Code §2.32.080)
1-8A-9: NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES:
Candidates for the office may be nominated by petition, as now provided by law,
which petition shall be filed with the town clerk not less than twenty (20)
days before the recall election. (1997 Code §2.32.090; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8A-10: RECALL AFTER SIX MONTHS:
No recall petition shall be circulated or signed against any officer until he
has actually held his office for at least six (6) months, unless he holds his
office by virtue of appointment to fill a vacancy. (1997 Code §2.32.100)
1-8A-11: SECOND PETITION:
After one recall petition and election, no further petition shall be filed
against the same officer during the term for which he was elected, unless the
petitioners signing the petition shall equal fifty percent (50%) of the ballots
cast at the last preceding town election. (1997 Code §2.32.110)
CHAPTER 9
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Applicability
1-9-4: Restrictions Generally
1-9-5: Conflict Of Interest Disclosure; Procedure
1-9-6: Guidelines; Potential Conflicts Of Interest
1-9-7: Violations; Penalties
1-9-8: Guideline Violations
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote public confidence in the town
government and to provide guidance to the trustees of the town board and
members of the boards, commissions and other authorities appointed by the town
board and town administrator concerning real or apparent conflicts of interest.
(1997 Code §2.52.010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined and shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section unless it is apparent from
the context that a different meaning is intended:
BOARD: The following boards, commissions or other bodies or authorities, and
any other boards appointed by law or ordinance of the town:
   A.   Board of trustees;
   B.   Board of adjustment;
   C.   Board of appeals;
   D.   Airport development committee;
   E.   Akron library board;
   F.   Akron volunteer firemen's pension board;
   G.   Town of Akron housing authority;
   H.   Senior and community center.
BOARD MEMBER: A member of any board appointed by the town administrator or town
board of trustees whether under charter, ordinance or state law, including
regular and alternate members; such does not include or cover any compensated
full time or part time town employee unless such person is also a board member.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: Any personal or property interest, or any other kind of
pecuniary interest or any other private interest held by an individual trustee
or board member which may conflict or interfere with or otherwise influence, or
which may reasonably be perceived by the public as influencing the conduct of
public duties.
TRUSTEE: A member of the board of trustees. (1997 Code §2.52.020; amd. 2016
Code)
1-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
Unless otherwise required by law, the provisions of this chapter will be
applicable law governing conflicts of interest within the town. (1997 Code
§2.52.030)
1-9-4: RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
The following restrictions shall apply to all town trustees and all board
members:
   A.   No town trustee or board member may use any information obtained by
virtue of this public position in furtherance of any personal or pecuniary
interest or to further the personal or pecuniary interest of any other person.
Confidential or privileged information shall not be disclosed except as
provided by law.
   B.   No town trustee or board member may take any final action or vote to
render any final decision or determination on any particular item or matter
within the province of the board where:
      1.   The individual member has a conflict of interest, other than the
common public interest, with regard to that particular item or matter before
the board; or
      2.   Any member of his family may personally benefit from the final
action, decision or determination regarding a particular item or matter before
the board.
   C.   No town trustee or board member will be a party, by himself or through
a firm appearing on behalf of such a party, in a lawsuit in state court wherein
the town is also a party without the consent of the town board being first
requested and obtained. (1997 Code §2.52.040; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Disclosure Required: In the event that any town trustee or board member
has any conflict of interest of which he is aware, the town trustee or board
member shall declare such interest to the town board of trustees or board of
which he is a member. In the event that any town trustee or board member is
aware that he could potentially be construed as having a conflict of interest,
the town trustee or board member shall disclose such potential conflict of
interest to the town trustees or board of which he is a member.
   B.   Conflict Established; Taking Action: If any town trustee or board
member fails to declare or disclose such interest, or where such person
discloses a potential conflict of interest, the remaining members of the board
shall establish by a majority vote whether said interest does in fact
constitute a conflict of interest. When such conflict of interest is declared
or established, the remaining trustees or board members shall take any action
they deem to be in the best interest of the town.
   C.   Removal From Board During Consideration: When the conflict of interest
is declared or established as provided for above, the town trustee or board
member with such an interest shall remove himself from the town trustees or
board before the matter is being considered. After the final decision is made
by the town trustees or board with regard to the particular matter upon which
the town trustee or board member has such an interest, he may return and resume
his duties as a member of the town trustees or board. (1997 Code §2.52.050;
amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-6: GUIDELINES; POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
All town trustees and board members shall be guided by the following general
directives in dealing with potential conflicts of interest:
   A.   All town trustees and board members should avoid any conflicts of
interest or appearance of conflicts of interest.
   B.   The town board and town administrator shall thoroughly examine the
background of all applicants for real or potential conflicts of interest, and
the appearance thereof, prior to appointing any board member.
   C.   All town trustees and board members should avoid the receipt of any
compensation, gift, payment of expense, reward, gratuity or any item of value
tendered by a person where such a person has an interest in some particular
matter pending before the town trustees or board.
   D.   A town trustee or board member may be a member of a firm which
represents another person before the town board or another board; except, such
circumstances shall be conclusively deemed to be a conflict of interest for
such town trustee or board member.
   E.   A town trustee or board member may appear before the town board or any
other board urging an argument concerning general town issues and policies.
(1997 Code §2.52.060; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any town trustee or board member who violates any of the provisions of sections
1-9-4 and
1-9-5 of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
   A.   In all cases, the determination of the town board as to whether there
has been a violation shall be final.
   B.   In the case of a town board member, if a violation is established to
the satisfaction of a majority of the town board, such violation shall be
grounds for an official reprimand by the town board.
   C.   In the case of a board member, if a violation is established to the
satisfaction of a majority of the town board, such violation shall be grounds
for an official reprimand by the town board and grounds for termination of such
person's appointment to any board of which he is a member. If the town board
votes to terminate the appointment of a board member upon such grounds, the
town board may appoint another person to fulfill the term of the individual
removed from office. (1997 Code §2.52.070; amd. 2016 Code)
1-9-8: GUIDELINE VIOLATIONS:
Any apparent violation of any of the provisions of section
1-9-6 of this chapter may be referred to the town board for investigation and
discussion by any town official, board or citizen of the town. If, upon
investigation and discussion, the town board finds that a violation of the
guidelines contained in section
1-9-6 of this chapter has occurred, the town board may caution or reprimand the
town board member, or board member responsible therefor or take such other
action as it deems to be in the best interests of the town. (1997 Code
§2.52.080; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 10
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Procedure For Disposition Of Property
1-10-4: Sale Of Unclaimed Property
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the administration and
disposition of unclaimed property which is in the possession of, or under the
control of, the town. (1997 Code § 3.16.010)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise required by context or use, words and terms shall be defined
as follows:
MUNICIPALITY: The town of Akron, Colorado.
OWNER: A person or entity, including a corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity other than the municipality, or a duly authorized legal
representative or successor in interest of same, which owns unclaimed property
held by the municipality.
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR: The town administrator or the town clerk of the town of
Akron or designee thereof.
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY: Any tangible or intangible property, including any income
or increment derived therefrom, less any lawful charges, that is held by, or is
under the control of, the town, and which has not been claimed by its owner for
a period of more than one year, if it is tangible personal property, and three
(3) years, if it is intangible personal property, after it became payable or
distributable. (1997 Code § 3.16.020)
1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Value More Than Fifty Dollars: Prior to disposition of any unclaimed
property having an estimated value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more, the town
administrator shall send a written notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address, if any, of an owner of unclaimed
property. The last known address of the owner shall be the last address of the
owner shown by the records of the municipal department or agency holding the
property. The notice shall include a description of the property, the amount or
estimated value of the property and, when available, the purpose for which the
property was deposited or otherwise held. The notice shall also state that, if
the owner fails to provide the town administrator with a written claim for
return of the property within sixty (60) days of the date of the notice, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of
the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   B.   Value Less Than Fifty Dollars: Prior to disposition of any unclaimed
property having an estimated value of less than fifty dollars ($50.00), or
having no last known address of the owner, the town administrator shall cause a
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. The notice shall include a description of the property, the owner
of the property, the amount or estimated value of the property and, when
available, the purpose for which the property was deposited or otherwise held.
The notice shall state where the owner may make inquiry of or claim the
property. The notice shall also state that, if the owner shall fail to provide
the town administrator with a written claim for the return of the property
within sixty (60) days of the date of the publication of the notice, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of
the owner to such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   C.   No Written Claim: If the town administrator receives no written claim
within the above described sixty (60) day claim period, the property shall
become the sole property of the municipality, and any claim of the owner to
such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   D.   Written Claim: If the town administrator receives a written claim
within the above described sixty (60) day claim period, the town administrator
shall evaluate the claim and give written notice to the claimant within ninety
(90) days thereof that the claim has been accepted or denied in whole or in
part. The town administrator may investigate the validity of the claim and may
request further supporting documentation of the claimant prior to disbursing or
refusing to disburse the property.
   E.   More Than One Claimant: In the event that there is more than one
claimant for the same property, the town administrator may, in the town
administrator's sole discretion, resolve the claims or may resolve such claims
by depositing the disputed property with the registry of the district court in
an interpleader action.
   F.   Denial Of Claims: In the event that all claims filed are denied, the
property shall become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of
the owner of such property shall be deemed forfeited.
   G.   Legal Action Challenging Town Decision: Any legal action filed
challenging a decision of the town administrator shall be filed pursuant to
rule 106 of Colorado rules of civil procedure within thirty (30) days of such
decision or shall be forever barred. If any legal action is timely filed, the
property shall be disbursed by the town administrator pursuant to the order of
the court having jurisdiction over such claim.
   H.   Establish And Administer Procedures: The town administrator is
authorized to establish and administer procedures for the administration and
disposition of unclaimed property consistent with this chapter, including
compliance requirements for other municipal officers and employees in the
identification and disposition of such property. (1997 Code § 3.16.030)
1-10-4: SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
The disposition of any unclaimed property shall be determined by the town
administrator but shall be in a competitive manner when possible and in a
manner which does not conflict with any Colorado statute. (1997 Code §
3.16.040)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Created
2-1-2: Membership; Terms
2-1-3: Qualifications; Compensation
2-1-4: Organization And Rules
2-1-5: Staff And Finances
2-1-6: Powers
2-1-7: Purpose In View
2-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by Colorado Revised Statutes sections 31-
23-201 through 31-23-213, there is created a planning commission and a zoning
commission for the town. The members of the planning commission shall also
serve, and are appointed as, a zoning commission. (1997 Code § 2.48.010)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Members: The Town Planning Commission shall consist of five (5) members
as follows: the mayor, a member of the board of trustees, and three (3)
qualified persons appointed by the board or trustees.
   B.   Terms: The term of each appointed member shall be six (6) years or
until his successor takes office, except that the respective terms of the
members first appointed shall be as follows: one member for a term of two (2)
years, one member for a term of four (4) years and one member for a term of six
(6) years. The respective terms of the members first appointed shall be fixed
and designated by the board at the time of appointment. (1997 Code § 2.48.020;
Ord. 587, 5-2-2023)
2-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Qualifications: All members of the planning commission and zoning
commission shall be bona fide residents in the town and if any member ceases to
reside in the town, his membership shall immediately terminate.
   B.   Compensation: All members of the commissions shall serve as such
without compensation and the appointed members shall hold no other municipal
office, except that one such appointed member may be a member of the zoning
board of adjustment. (1997 Code § 2.48.030)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
Each commission shall elect its chairman from among the appointed members and
create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
chairman shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. Each commission
shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month and such meetings may be
held consecutively on the same date. Each commission shall adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public
record. (1997 Code § 2.48.040)
2-1-5: STAFF AND FINANCES:
   A.   Employees And Consultants: Each commission, jointly or severally, may
appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its work, whose
appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be subject to the same
provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil employees or the town.
Each commission may also, with the consent of the board, contract with the town
planners, engineers and architects and other consultants for such services as
it may require.
   B.   Expenditures: The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts,
shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose of the board which
shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the
commission's work. (1997 Code § 2.48.050)
2-1-6: POWERS:
Each commission shall have all of the powers and perform each and all of the
duties specified by Colorado Revised Statutes sections 31-23-201 through 31-23-
213, together with any other duties or authority which may hereafter be
conferred upon them by the laws of the state of Colorado. The performance of
such duties and the exercise of such authority is to be subject to each and all
of the limitations expressed in such legislative enactment or enactments. (1997
Code § 2.48.060)
2-1-7: PURPOSE IN VIEW:
   A.   Planning Commission: In the preparation of a master plan, the planning
commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present
conditions and future growth of the town with due regard to its relations to
neighboring territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the town and its environs, which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provision for light and
air, the promotion of healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure
of public funds, and the adequate provision of public utilities and other
public requirements. (1997 Code § 2.48.070)
   B.   Zoning Commission: The zoning commission shall prepare its regulations
in accordance with a comprehensive plan and designed to lessen congestion in
the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote
health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air, to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate
the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and
other public requirements. Such regulations shall be made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, as to the character of the district and its
particular suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the
value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the town. (1997 Code § 2.48.080)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal Year Same As Calendar Year
3-1-2: Annual Budget
3-1-3: Rate Of Tax Levy
3-1-4: Annual Appropriation
3-1-5: Publication Of Financial Statements
3-1-6: Deposits; Investments
3-1-7: Annual Audit
3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR SAME AS CALENDAR YEAR:
The fiscal year of the town shall commence on January 1 and end on December 31
of each year. (1997 Code § 3.04.010)
3-1-2: ANNUAL BUDGET:
Not later than October 15 of each year, the budget committee or other duly
authorized persons designated by the board, shall submit to the board the
itemized annual budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget as approved by
the board shall be adopted and administered in accordance with the provisions
of the local government budget law of Colorado. (1997 Code § 3.04.020)
3-1-3: RATE OF TAX LEVY:
The board of trustees shall by resolution fix the rate of tax to be levied upon
all the taxable property within the town for municipal purposes and, through
the town clerk, shall officially certify the levy to the county commissioners
of Washington County prior to December 15 of each year. (1997 Code § 3.04.030)
3-1-4: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION:
The board of trustees shall pass a resolution within the last quarter of each
fiscal year, to be termed the annual appropriation resolution, for the next
fiscal year. In such resolution, the board shall appropriate such sums of money
as are necessary to cover the items in its budget and to defray all necessary
expenses and liabilities of the town specifying the objects and purposes for
which such appropriations are made and the amount appropriated for each object
or purpose. The total amount appropriated shall not exceed the probable amount
of revenue that will be collected during the fiscal year. (1997 Code §
3.04.040; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-5: PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
The board of trustees shall, within twenty (20) days after the adjournment of
each regular or special meeting, publish such of its proceedings as relate to
the payment of bills, stating for what the same are allowed, the name of the
person to whom allowed and to whom paid. (1997 Code § 3.04.050; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-6: DEPOSITS; INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Deposits: The town treasurer shall deposit all of the funds and monies
which come into his possession by virtue of his office as town treasurer in one
or more responsible banks located in the state of Colorado which have been
designated by written resolution of the town board.
   B.   Investments: The town board may also authorize the town treasurer, by
written resolution, to invest all or any part of such funds in securities which
are authorized for such investment by state law. (1997 Code § 3.04.060)
3-1-7: ANNUAL AUDIT:
The board of trustees shall select a qualified person as auditor and cause to
be made an annual audit of the financial affairs and transactions of the town
in accordance with the requirements of state law. (1997 Code § 3.04.070)
CHAPTER 2
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Vendor's Fee
3-2-4: General Provisions And Exemptions From Taxation
3-2-5: Schedules Of Sales Tax
3-2-6: Schedules Of Use Tax
3-2-7: Election And Amendments
3-2-8: Penalty
3-2-9: Effective Date
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose an additional sales tax on the sale of
tangible property at retail and the furnishing of services as provided, in
Colorado Revised Statutes section 29-2-105, subsection (1)(d), upon every
retailer in the town. (1997 Code § 3.08.010)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions of words herein contained
shall be defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section 39-26-102, and these
definitions are incorporated herein by this chapter. (1997 Code § 3.08.020)
3-2-3: VENDOR'S FEE:
The vendor (retailer) shall be entitled as collection agent for the town to
withhold a collection fee in the amount of three and one-third percent (31/3%)
from the total amount remitted by vendor to the town each month. If any vendor
is delinquent in remitting the tax, other than in unusual circumstances shown
to the satisfaction of the executive director, the vendor shall not be allowed
to retain any amounts to cover his expense in collecting and remitting the tax
and an amount equivalent to the full three and one-third percent (31/3%) shall
be remitted to the executive director by any such delinquent vendor. (1997 Code
§ 3.08.030)
3-2-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXATION:
   A.   Collection, Administration And Enforcement: For the purpose of
collection, administration and enforcement of this chapter by the Colorado
department of revenue, the provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes title 39,
article 26, part 7, as amended, shall be deemed applicable and incorporated
into this chapter. (Ord. 492, 3-2-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Amount Subject To Tax, Exclusion: The amount subject to tax under this
chapter shall not include the state sales and use tax imposed by Colorado
Revised Statutes title 39, article 26.
   C.   Retail Sales At Place Of Business: For the purpose of this chapter, all
retail sales shall be considered consummated at the place of business of the
retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to a destination outside the town or to a common carrier
for delivery to a destination outside the limits of the town.
   D.   Gross Receipts: The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax imposed
by Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article 26 regardless of the places to
which delivery is made.
   E.   Determination Of Place Of Business: In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the town, or more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated for the purpose
of this sales tax shall be determined by the provisions of Colorado Revised
Statutes title 39, article 26, and by the rules and regulations promulgated by
the Colorado department of revenue.
   F.   Sales Of Personal Property, Exemption: All sales of personal property
on which a specific ownership tax has been paid or is payable shall be exempt
from the town sales tax when such sales meet both of the following conditions:
      1.   The purchaser is a nonresident of, or has its principal place of
business outside, the town; and
      2.   Such personal property is registered or required to be registered
outside the limits of the town under the laws of the state of Colorado. (1997
Code § 3.08.040)
3-2-5: SCHEDULES OF SALES TAX:
   A.   Tax Amount: There is imposed on all sales of tangible personal property
at retail and the furnishing of services as provided in Colorado Revised
Statutes section 39-26-104, as amended, a tax equal to two and one-half percent
(2.5%) of the gross receipts. The tangible personal property and services
taxable by this chapter shall be the same as the tangible personal property and
services taxable pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 39-26-104, as
amended, except the sales of food shall not be exempt. The imposition of the
tax on individual sales shall be in accordance with schedules set forth in the
rules and regulations promulgated by the state department of revenue or by
separate ordinance of the town. If any vendor, during any reporting period,
shall collect as a tax an amount in excess of two and one- half percent (2.5%)
of his total taxable sales, he shall remit to the Colorado department of
revenue the full amount of the tax herein imposed and also such excess. (1997
Code § 3.08.050; amd. Ord. 490, 12-1-2008; 2016 Code)
   B.   Collection, Administration And Enforcement: The collection,
administration and enforcement of this sales tax shall be performed by the
director of revenue of the state of Colorado in the same manner as the
collection, administration and enforcement of the Colorado state sales tax. The
provisions of Colorado Revised Statutes title 39, article 26, as amended
hereafter, and all rules and regulations promulgated by said director of
revenue shall govern the collection, administration and enforcement of the
sales tax imposed by this chapter. (1997 Code § 3.08.050)
   C.   Exemptions: There shall be expressly exempt from items subject to tax
purchases of machinery or machine tools as provided in Colorado Revised
Statutes section 39-26-709, and sales and purchases of electricity, coal, gas,
fuel oil or coke as provided in Colorado Revised Statutes section 39-26-115(1)
(a)(II). (1997 Code § 3.08.050; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-6: SCHEDULES OF USE TAX:
The use tax is imposed only for the privilege of storing, using or consuming in
the town any construction and building materials and motor and other vehicles
on which registration is required, purchased at retail. However, the use tax
shall not apply to those exclusions listed in Colorado Revised Statutes section
29-2-109(1). (1997 Code § 3.08.060; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-7: ELECTION AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Election: Sales tax ordinances were submitted to and received the
approval of a majority of the registered electors of the town voting at
elections held on April 4, 2000 and November 4, 2008. (1997 Code § 3.08.070;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Amendments: The board of trustees may amend, alter or change this
chapter, except as to the two and one-half percent (2.5%) rate of tax herein
imposed, subsequent to adoption by a majority vote of the board of trustees.
Such amendment, alteration, or change need not be submitted to the electors of
the town for their approval. (1997 Code § 3.08.070; amd. Ord. 490, 12-1-2008)
3-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code § 3.08.080; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter and the sales tax shall apply to all retail sales, unless exempt,
made after November 4, 2008. (1997 Code § 3.08.090; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TELEPHONE UTILITIES TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Levy Of Tax
3-3-2: Payment Of Taxes
3-3-3: Inspection Of Records
3-3-4: Local Purpose
3-3-5: Failure To Pay Or To File
3-3-6: Tax In Lieu Of Other Occupation Taxes
3-3-1: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied against every telephone utility which is engaged in the
business of furnishing local telephone service within the town a tax on the
privilege of engaging in such business. The amount of such tax from the
effective date hereof shall be three percent (3%) of such telephone utility's
gross annual sales derived from local telephone service provided within the
town as provided in section
3-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
3-3-2: PAYMENT OF TAXES:
The tax levied by this chapter shall annually be due and payable at the office
of the town clerk on or before February 15 for the preceding calendar year of
January 1 to December 31. Along with payment of the tax levied by this chapter,
each telephone utility subject to the tax imposed by this chapter shall file
with the town clerk, in such form as the town clerk may require, a statement
showing the gross annual sales derived from local telephone service provided
within the town during the preceding calendar year. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
3-3-3: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
The town, its officers, agents, or representatives, shall have the right, at
any reasonable time, to examine the books and records of any telephone utility
that is subject to the tax imposed by this chapter, and to make copies of the
entries or contents thereof for the purpose of enforcing the tax imposed by
this chapter. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
3-3-4: LOCAL PURPOSE:
The tax provided herein is upon the affected occupations and businesses in
their performance of local functions and is not a tax upon those functions
relating to interstate commerce. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
3-3-5: FAILURE TO PAY OR TO FILE:
   A.   If any telephone utility subject to the tax imposed by this chapter
fails to pay the tax as provided herein, the full amount of the tax then due
and owing shall be collected from the delinquent telephone utility together
with a penalty of an additional ten percent (10%) of the amount of taxes due.
The delinquent taxes and the assessed penalty shall be and is hereby declared
to be a debt due and owing from the delinquent telephone utility to the town.
(Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
   B.   If any officer, agent, or manager of a telephone utility that is
subject to the provisions of this chapter shall fail, neglect, or refuse to pay
any tax or to file any statement required by this chapter within the time
prescribed in this chapter, such officer, agent, or manager shall be punished,
upon conviction thereof, as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day after such tax or statement becomes or remains
delinquent shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007; amd.
2016 Code)
3-3-6: TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER OCCUPATION TAXES:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be in lieu of all other occupation taxes
or taxes on the privilege of doing business within the town on any telephone
utility subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 483, 7-2-2007)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Policy And Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Classifications
4-1-4: Levy Of Tax
4-1-5: Payment Of Tax
4-1-6: License Not Affected By Delinquency
4-1-7: Recovery Of Tax By Suit
4-1-8: Failure To Pay Tax An Offense
4-1-9: Alcoholic Beverage Tastings
4-1-10: Special Events Permit
4-1-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The board of trustees finds, determines and declares that, considering the
nature of the business of selling at retail 3.2 percent beer, malt, vinous or
spirituous liquors for beverage purposes and the relations of such business to
the municipal welfare, as well as the relation thereof to the expenditures
required by the town and a proper, just and equitable distribution of tax
burdens within the town, and all other matters proper to be considered in
relation thereto, that the classification of the business as a separate
occupation is reasonable, proper, uniform and nondiscriminatory and that the
amount of tax imposed by this chapter is reasonable, proper, uniform and
nondiscriminatory and necessary for a just and proper distribution of tax
burdens within the town. (1997 Code § 5.08.030)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As herein used, certain words, unless the context indicates otherwise, shall
have the following meanings:
MALT LIQUORS: Includes beer and shall be construed to mean any beverage
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley,
malt, hops or any other similar products or any combination thereof in water,
containing more than 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight or four percent (4%)
alcohol by volume.
SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation mixed with
water and other substances in solution and includes, among other things,
brandy, rum, whiskey, gin and every liquid or solid patented or not, containing
at least one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume and which are fit for
use for beverage purposes. Any liquid or solid containing beer or wine in
combination with any other liquor, except as above provided, shall not be
construed to be malt or vinous liquors, but shall be construed to be spirituous
liquor.
3.2 PERCENT BEER: Malt liquor as herein defined containing not more than 3.2
percent of alcohol by weight.
VINOUS LIQUORS: Includes wine and fortified wines that contain not less than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol and not exceeding twenty one percent
(21%) of alcohol by volume and shall be construed to mean alcoholic beverages
obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar contents of fruits or other
agricultural products containing sugar. (1997 Code § 5.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-3: CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Hotel And Restaurant License: Licensed to sell beer, wine and
spirituous liquors for consumption on the premises where meals are actually and
regularly served; and provided, that not less than twenty five percent (25%) of
the gross income is from the sales of food and drink.
   B.   Beer And Wine License: Licensed to sell malt and vinous liquors and
fermented malt beverages for consumption on the premises.
   C.   Retail Liquor Store License: Licensed to sell malt, vinous and
spirituous liquors in sealed containers not to be consumed at the place where
sold.
   D.   Drugstore License: A liquor licensed drugstore allowed to sell malt,
vinous and spirituous liquors in sealed containers not to be consumed at the
place where sold.
   E.   Club License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by the drink only to
members of the club and guests and only for consumption on the premises of the
club.
   F.   Tavern License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by the drink only to
customers for consumption on the premises. A tavern licensee shall have
sandwiches and light snacks available for consumption on the premises, but need
not have meals available.
   G.   Optional Premises License: Licensed to sell alcohol beverages by the
drink only to customers for consumption on the optional premises and for
storing alcohol beverages in a secure area on or off the optional premises for
future use on the optional premises.
   H.   Bed And Breakfast Permit: In lieu of a hotel and restaurant license, a
person operating a bed and breakfast with not more than twenty (20) sleeping
rooms that offers complimentary alcohol beverages for consumption on the
premises and only by overnight guests may be issued a bed and breakfast permit.
   I.   Brewpub License: Licensed to any person operating a brewpub and selling
alcohol beverages for consumption on the premises. (1997 Code § 5.08.020; amd.
2016 Code)
4-1-4: LEVY OF TAX:
   A.   License Types, Except Retail Liquor Stores: There is levied and
assessed for 2003 and each year thereafter an annual occupation tax upon the
business of selling beer, malt, vinous or spirituous liquors of three hundred
twenty five dollars ($325.00) for every license type, except retail liquor
stores.
   B.   Retail Liquor Stores: There is levied and assessed for 2003 and each
year thereafter an annual occupation tax upon the business of selling beer,
malt, vinous or spirituous liquors of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for
retail liquor stores. (Ord. 464, 12-1-2003; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-5: PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Due Date: Such tax shall be due and payable to the town clerk each year
at the time the liquor license renewal is filed, and no such renewal shall be
considered by the board of trustees until all fees, including the occupation
tax, are paid in full.
   B.   Issuance Of Receipt By Town: Upon receipt of such tax, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to execute and deliver to the licensee paying the tax, a
revenue receipt showing the name of the licensee paying the tax, the date of
payment, the annual period for which the tax is paid, the place at which the
licensee conducts business, and the classification of the licensee.
   C.   Posting Of Receipt On Premises: The licensee shall, at all times during
the year, keep the receipt posted in a conspicuous place in his place of
business.
   D.   Refund; Prorating Tax; Interest On Delinquent Taxes: No refund shall be
made to any person who discontinues business during the year. The tax will be
prorated on a monthly basis for any person or firm entering business after the
commencement of the calendar year. Interest shall accrue on all delinquent
taxes herein provided for from the day of delinquency until paid or collected,
at the rate of one percent (1%) per month.
   E.   Designation Of Classification: The licensee shall at the time he pays
his tax designate to the town clerk under what classification his place of
business is operated. (Ord. 464, 12-1-2003; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-6: LICENSE NOT AFFECTED BY DELINQUENCY:
No delinquency in payment of the tax herein provided for shall be grounds for
suspension or revocation of any license granted to any such licensee by any
licensing authority pursuant to the statutes enacted by the general assembly of
Colorado, and in the performance of any duties imposed upon the town board as a
licensing authority by said statutes, the town board shall exclude from
consideration any delinquency in payment of the tax herein provided. (1997 Code
§ 5.08.060; amd. 2016 Code)
4-1-7: RECOVERY OF TAX BY SUIT:
The town shall have the right to recover all sums due by the terms of this
chapter by judgment and execution thereon in a civil action, in any court of
competent jurisdiction; such remedy shall be cumulative with all other remedies
provided therein for the enforcement of this chapter. (1997 Code § 5.08.070)
4-1-8: FAILURE TO PAY TAX AN OFFENSE:
Failure to comply with the terms of this chapter by payment of taxes, securing
and posting a receipt therefor, and to otherwise comply with the terms of this
chapter, shall constitute an offense and violation of this code; delinquency
for each calendar month shall constitute a separate and distinct offense; but
no conviction for such violation shall work as a revocation of the licenses of
the defendant issued under the laws of the state of Colorado. (1997 Code §
5.08.080)
4-1-9: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TASTINGS:
Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 44-3-301(10)(a), the town hereby
authorizes alcoholic beverage tastings for licensed retail liquor stores within
the town subject to the limitations contained in Colorado Revised Statutes
section 44-3-301(10) and subject to the approval by the local licensing
authority of a liquor tastings permit application in a form approved by the
town clerk. (Ord. 477, 12-5-2005; amd. Ord. 575, 6-7-2021)
4-1-10: SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT:
   A.   Required: An organization may sell, by the drink only, malt beverages,
or malt, spirituous or vinous liquors, at a special event, after obtaining a
special events permit. (Ord. 503, 8-1-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Time Restriction: The local licensing authority shall not issue a
special event permit to any entity for more than fifteen (15) days in one
calendar year.
   C.   Application; Form; Handling Fee:
      1.   The applicant shall fully complete an application for special events
permit as required by the state licensing authority. No application for a
special events permit shall be submitted to the town until the applications
have been completed in all respects.
      2.   There shall accompany each application for a special events permit a
handling fee to defray actual and necessary expenses and the cost of processing
the application, together with such other fees as are required by the state
licensing authority.
   D.   Documents To Accompany Application: Every application for a special
events permit shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Appropriate fee.
      2.   A diagram of the area to be licensed.
      3.   Copy of lease, deed or written permission from the owner of the
property giving consent for use of the property during all times of the special
event.
      4.   Certificate of good corporate standing issued by the secretary of
state within the last two (2) years; or
      5.   If not incorporated, a nonprofit charter; or
      6.   If a political candidate, copies of reports and statements that were
filed with the secretary of state.
      7.   Such other information or evidence as may, from time to time, be
required by the licensing authority for the purpose of ensuring that the
special event will be lawfully conducted and that the health, welfare, safety
and morals of the community will not be adversely affected by reason of the
nature of the special event or its location within the community. (Ord. 503, 8-
1-2011)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. NUISANCES GENERALLY
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Nuisance Designated
5-1A-2: County Health Department Powers
5-1A-3: Notice To Abate
5-1A-4: Declaration Of Nuisance By Board
5-1A-5: Abatement Without Notice
5-1A-6: Assistance To Abate Authorized
5-1A-7: Recovery Of Expenses
5-1A-8: Authority To Enter On Property
5-1A-1: NUISANCE DESIGNATED:
Anything which is injurious to the health or morals or indecent or offensive to
the senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property is declared a nuisance and as
such shall be abated. (1997 Code §8.28.010)
5-1A-2: COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT POWERS:
   A.   Powers: The county health department has the full power to take all
measures necessary to promote the health and cleanliness, to abate all
nuisances of every description on public and private property; to prevent the
introduction of spreading within the town of malignant, contagious and
infectious diseases and to remove, detain, isolate or quarantine any person or
persons attacked by or having any such disease, or having been exposed thereto;
to promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to perform its
functions.
   B.   Enforcement Authority: The county health department shall have the
authority to enforce such rules of the health department of the state as are
applicable to particular situations. (1997 Code §8.28.020)
5-1A-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Any state of things prohibited by this article shall be deemed a nuisance and
any person who shall hereafter make or cause such nuisance to exist shall be
deemed the author thereof; provided, that any person who shall have possession
or control of any private ground or premises, whether he is owner thereof or
not, in or upon which any such nuisance shall exist or may be found, whether
such nuisance has been heretofore or shall be hereafter created, shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense, as the author of a nuisance, for every
period of forty eight (48) hours continuance of such nuisance after due notice
given to abate the same. The written notice of forty eight (48) hours may be
given and served by the chief of police or other officers as he may designate.
(1997 Code §8.28.030)
5-1A-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE BY BOARD:
In the event that any such nuisance within or upon any private premises or
grounds is not abated forthwith after the notice herein provided shall be
given, the board of trustees may declare the same to be a nuisance and order
the chief of police to abate the same, which order shall be executed without
delay; and the chief of police shall have the authority to call for the
necessary assistance therefor. (1997 Code §8.28.040)
5-1A-5: ABATEMENT WITHOUT NOTICE:
In case of any such nuisance in or upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk,
highway or public grounds in the town, the chief of police or town
administrator may abate the same forthwith without such notice given. (1997
Code §8.28.050)
5-1A-6: ASSISTANCE TO ABATE AUTHORIZED:
Any officer who shall be duly authorized to abate any nuisance specified in
this article shall have authority to engage the necessary assistance, and incur
the necessary expenses thereof. (1997 Code §8.28.060)
5-1A-7: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
The expense incurred by the town in abating any nuisance may be recovered back
by proper action from the creator thereof. (1997 Code §8.28.070)
5-1A-8: AUTHORITY TO ENTER ON PROPERTY:
The mayor, chief of police, trustees or any other persons who may be directed
or deputized by the board of trustees may enter upon or into any lot, house or
other building or premises, with proper respect for the occupant's and owner's
constitutional rights, to examine the same and to ascertain whether any such
nuisance exists, and shall be free from any action or liability on account
thereof. The inspection shall be made at reasonable hours after twenty four
(24) hours' written notice to the owner or occupant, unless exigent
circumstances exist that require immediate action. Said notice shall be
delivered to the owner and occupant and posted on the premises where the public
nuisance exists. If the owner or occupant cannot be found after reasonable
inquiry, posting shall be sufficient notice. Said twenty four (24) hour notice
can be waived upon consent of the owner or occupant. (Ord. 527, 8-3-2015)
ARTICLE B. SPECIFIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Unwholesome Businesses
5-1B-2: Junkyards And Dumping Grounds
5-1B-3: Discharge Of Nauseous Liquids
5-1B-4: Stale Matter
5-1B-5: Sewer Inlet
5-1B-6: Slaughterhouse
5-1B-7: Dead Animals, Removal
5-1B-8: Stagnant Ponds
5-1B-9: Open Wells, Cisterns Or Excavations
5-1B-10: Noisemaking Devices To Attract Children
5-1B-11: Handbills, Posters And Placards
5-1B-12: Solicitors And Transient Vendors
5-1B-13: Storage Of Grain
5-1B-1: UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES:
Offensive or unwholesome businesses or establishments are prohibited. From and
after the effective date hereof, it is unlawful for any person of any kind to
allow or suffer upon his premises or any premises which he is entitled to
possess any offensive or unwholesome business or establishment within the town,
or within one mile beyond the outer limits of the town as such outer limits are
now, or may be hereafter, constituted. (1997 Code §8.32.010)
5-1B-2: JUNKYARDS AND DUMPING GROUNDS:
All places used or maintained as junkyards, or dumping grounds, or for the
wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any
kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, boats and house trailers, or machinery
of any kind, or of any of the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of
any machinery or equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons,
which places are kept in such manner as to essentially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, are declared to be a
nuisance. (1997 Code §8.32.020)
5-1B-3: DISCHARGE OF NAUSEOUS LIQUIDS:
It is unlawful to discharge out of or from, or permit to flow from any house or
place, foul or nauseous liquid or substance of any kind whatsoever, into or
upon any adjacent ground or lot, or into any street, alley or public place in
the town. (1997 Code §8.32.030)
5-1B-4: STALE MATTER:
It is unlawful to keep, collect or use or cause to be kept, collected or used
in the town any stale, putrid or stinking fat or grease or other matter. (1997
Code §8.32.040)
5-1B-5: SEWER INLET:
It is unlawful to deposit in or throw into any sewer, sewer inlet or privy
vault that shall have a sewer connection, any article whatsoever that might
cause such sewer, sewer inlet or privy vault, to become nauseous or offensive
to others or injurious to public health. (1997 Code §8.32.050)
5-1B-6: SLAUGHTERHOUSE:
No slaughterhouse or other place for slaughtering animals shall be kept within
the town. (1997 Code §8.32.060)
5-1B-7: DEAD ANIMALS, REMOVAL:
When any animal shall die in the town, it shall be the duty of the owner or
keeper thereof to remove the body of such animal forthwith beyond the limits of
the town. If such body shall not forthwith be removed, the same shall be deemed
a nuisance, and such owner or keeper shall cause a nuisance to exist. When the
body of any such dead animal shall be in any street, highway or public grounds
in the town, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to cause such body to
be removed forthwith beyond the limits of the town. (1997 Code §8.32.070)
5-1B-8: STAGNANT PONDS:
Any cellar, vault, drain, sewer, pond of water, or other place, upon or within
any private premises or grounds, in the town, that shall be nauseous or
offensive to others, or injurious to public health, through an accumulation or
deposition of nauseous, offensive or foul water, or other substances, shall be
deemed a nuisance. This applies in all cases for which no other specific
provisions are made in this article or any other ordinance of the town. (1997
Code §8.32.080)
5-1B-9: OPEN WELLS, CISTERNS OR EXCAVATIONS:
It is declared that excavations exceeding five feet (5') in depth, cisterns and
wells or an excavation used for storage of water are public nuisances unless
the same are adequately covered with a locked lid, or other covering weighing
at least sixty (60) pounds or are securely fenced with a solid fence to a
height of at least five feet (5') and it is unlawful for any person to permit
such nuisance to remain on premises owned or occupied by him. (1997 Code
§8.32.090)
5-1B-10: NOISEMAKING DEVICES TO ATTRACT CHILDREN:
The use of bells, whistles, sirens, music horns or any other noisemaking
devices for the purpose of attracting children or minors to any vehicle upon
the streets, highways, rights of way, alleys or public ways of the town for the
purpose of selling, distributing or giving away any product whatsoever, to such
minors, is declared to be a public nuisance and hazard and is expressly
prohibited and shall be unlawful, excepting such activities carried on as part
of duly authorized public parades or processions. (1997 Code §8.32.100)
5-1B-11: HANDBILLS, POSTERS AND PLACARDS:
Any handbill, poster, placard or painted or printed matter which shall be
stuck, posted or pasted upon any public or private house, store or other
buildings, or upon any fence, power pole, telephone pole, or other structure
without the permission of the owner, agent or occupant of the house, shall be
deemed a nuisance. (1997 Code §8.32.110)
5-1B-12: SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS:
   A.   Invitation Required: The practice of going in and upon private
residences, business establishments or offices in the town by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant and transient vendors of merchandise, not having
been requested or invited so to do by the owner or owners, occupant or
occupants of such private residences, business establishments or offices for
the purpose of soliciting orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise or
for the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is declared to
be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   B.   Enforcement: The law enforcement officers of the town are required and
directed to suppress the same, and to abate any such nuisance as directed in
subsection A of this section; provided, however, that it is intended that the
provisions of this section shall apply to practices described in subsection A
of this section which are conducted by itinerants and transients and not by
those who have been requested or invited by the owner or occupant of private
residences, business establishments or offices; provided, further, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to farmers selling any food item
raised or produced by them, provided such food item or items show reasonable
health standards. (1997 Code §8.32.120)
5-1B-13: STORAGE OF GRAIN:
It is determined and declared that storage of grain in open lots, and storage
of grain in buildings or bins in residential areas in the town is unsafe to the
health of the community; that such storage endangers the health of the
community, and it is declared that the remedying of such condition insofar as
it is possible to do so at this time is in the public interest, and this
section is to aid in its remedy.
   A.   Open Areas: No grain shall henceforth be stored in the open within the
corporate limits of the town.
   B.   Buildings Or Bins: No grain shall henceforth be stored in buildings or
bins, within the following described part of the town:
Commencing at the intersection of First Street with the West City Limit Line of
said Town, and running thence along First Street East to the east line of Itea
Street; thence North along the east line of Itea Street and its northerly
projection to Eighth Street or its easterly projection, thence West along
Eighth Street to the West side of Custer Street and its Northerly projection,
thence North to the North line of Block 9, Hueske Addition to the Town of
Akron, thence West along the North line of the Hueske Addition to the City
Limit Line of said Town; thence South along said Line to the point of
beginning.
(1997 Code §8.32.130)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definition, Growth And Accumulation Of Weeds
5-2-2: Removal Of Weeds And Refuse; Costs
5-2-1: DEFINITION, GROWTH AND ACCUMULATION OF WEEDS:
   A.   Definition:
   WEEDS: Weeds, brush, or other undesirable vegetation. Bindweed, Canada
thistle, perennial sow thistle, Russian knapweed, common ragweed, milkweed,
common sunflower, Russian thistle, fireweed, mustards, sandburs, and hairy
stickweed shall constitute weeds. This enumeration is not intended to be
exclusive, but rather is intended to be indicative of those types of plants
which are considered a detriment to the public health and safety, regardless of
the height of said weeds. The term "weeds" shall not include flower gardens,
plots of shrubbery, vegetable gardens, and small grain plots (wheat, barley,
oats, and rye).
   B.   Premises And Alleys: No owner of any lot, block, or parcel of ground
within the town, nor any tenant or agent in charge thereof, shall allow or
permit weeds to grow, or remain when grown, on such lot, block, or parcel of
ground, or in the alley abutting upon the same from the adjoining side of such
alley to the middle line thereof, but such weeds shall be cut close to the
ground and shall be no more than twelve inches (12") in height and/or diameter.
   C.   Adjoining Sidewalks, Road Verge, Curb and Gutter: No owner of any lot,
block, or parcel of ground within the town, nor any tenant or agent in charge
thereof, shall allow or permit weeds to grow, or remain when grown, on or along
any sidewalk, road verge, curb and gutter adjoining the same, but such weeds
shall be cut close to the ground or removed and shall be no more than six
inches (6") in height and/or diameter.
(Ord. 590, 12-4-2023)
5-2-2: REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND REFUSE; COSTS:
   A.   If the owner of any vacant lots, or the owner or occupant of any
premises situated within the corporate limits of the town shall fail or neglect
to remove from the same and from that part of any alley abutting upon the same
from the adjoining side of such alley to the middle line thereof, any and all
noxious weeds, unsightly spontaneous vegetable growth, refuse and filth of any
kind within five (5) days after being notified by the town so to do, then and
thereafter the town manager, or his designee, shall cause to be made such
removal at the expense of the owner, tenant or agent in charge, together with
five percent (5%) additional for inspection and other incidentals, of such
vacant lot or lots, vacant part of lot or lots, part of lot or lots, premises,
sidewalks, road verges, curbs and gutters adjoining the same from which such
removal shall be made.
   B.   Failure To Pay Expense of Removal: If such owner shall fail to pay or
cause to be paid the expense or charge authorized by subsection A of this
section to be made, or any part of such expense or charge that may remain
unpaid, the town may reimburse itself therefor and therewith as follows: Its
town clerk shall cause to be served upon any such defaulting owner, personally
or by mail, a written statement of such expense or charge. Shall such expense
or charge not be paid within ten (10) days, the town clerk shall certify the
expense or charge so found to be due and payable, as assessment, to the
treasurer of Washington County, or the officer then having charge and custody
of the tax lists at the time such certification is made, to be by him placed on
such tax lists for the current year, to be collected in the same manner as
other taxes are collected, with ten percent (10%) penalty provided by the laws
of the state of Colorado.
(1997 Code §§ 8.36.010 - 8.36.030; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 588, 7-3-2023; Ord.
590, 12-4-2023)
CHAPTER 3
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Infected Trees, Nuisance
5-3-2: Enforcement
5-3-3: Abatement Of Nuisance By Owner Of Property
5-3-4: Inspections
5-3-5: Notice To Owner
5-3-6: Payment Of Costs
5-3-7: Abatement Of Nuisance On Town Property
5-3-1: INFECTED TREES, NUISANCE:
   A.   All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of genus Ulnus) infected
with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease (ceratosto-mella Ulmi) as
determined by analysis by the state of Colorado, or by laboratories approved by
the town, are declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or substantially
dead and all dead elm wood to which the bark is still attached, which, because
of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for the European elm bark
beetle (Scolytus multistriatus), and the native elm bark beetle (Hylurgopinus
rufipes), or any other carrier of the disease, are declared to be public
nuisances. (1997 Code § 8.04.010)
5-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The town administrator shall perform the duties set forth in this chapter and
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. He may have such assistance as
the board of trustees of the town shall from time to time provide for. (1997
Code § 8.04.020)
5-3-3: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNER OF PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the town to permit
or maintain on any such lot or parcel of land any dead elm wood or elm tree
which is a public nuisance as defined in this chapter, and it shall be the duty
of the owner of such lot or parcel of land to promptly remove and burn any such
elm tree or dead elm wood under the supervision and direction of the town
administrator. (1997 Code § 8.04.030)
5-3-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry: The town administrator is authorized and empowered to
enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the town for the purpose of inspecting
any elm trees or dead elm wood situated thereon, with proper respect for the
occupant's and owner's constitutional rights, to examine the same and to
ascertain whether any such nuisance exists, and shall be free from any action
or liability on account thereof. The inspection shall be made at reasonable
hours after twenty four (24) hours' written notice to the owner or occupant,
unless exigent circumstances exist that require immediate action. Said notice
shall be delivered to the owner and occupant and posted on the premises where
such elm trees or dead elm wood is situated. If the owner or occupant cannot be
found after reasonable inquiry, posting shall be sufficient notice. Said twenty
four (24) hour notice can be waived upon consent of the owner or occupant. The
town administrator may remove such specimens from any such trees as are
required for the purposes of the laboratory analysis referred to in this
chapter, or to determine whether such tree because it is dead, or substantially
dead, may serve as a breeding place for any carrier of Dutch elm disease. (1997
Code § 8.04.040; amd. Ord. 527, 8-3-2015)
   B.   Unlawful To Obstruct Or Interfere With Inspection: It is unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to take any action to prevent the town
administrator from entering on any lot or parcel of land in the town for the
purpose of such inspection or to interfere with the town administrator in the
performance of any of his duties provided for under the provisions of this
chapter. (1997 Code § 8.04.040)
5-3-5: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   A.   Notice Of Nuisance Determination: If, on laboratory analysis of
specimens removed from any elm tree by the town administrator or upon
determination by the state of Colorado, it is determined that such tree is a
public nuisance as provided herein, or if the town administrator determines
that any dead, or substantially dead elm trees, or dead elm wood, is a public
nuisance as provided herein, the town administrator shall serve or cause to be
served upon the owner of record of the lot or parcel of land on which such tree
or dead elm wood is located, a written notice requiring such owner to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. If any person, firm or corporation upon
whom such notice is served, fails, neglects or refuses to remove and destroy by
burning, such elm tree or dead elm wood within ten (10) days after service of
such notice, the town administrator may proceed to remove and burn such tree or
dead elm wood and assess the cost thereof against the owner of such lot or
parcel of land and the amount of such cost shall be paid by the owner to the
town.
   B.   Manner Of Serving Notice: Service of notice provided for in this
chapter shall be by personal service if the owner of the lot or parcel of land
on which an infected elm tree is located is a resident of the town. If the
owner cannot be found in the town or is a nonresident of the town, written
notice shall be served by certified mail to the last known address of the
owner. (1997 Code § 8.04.050)
5-3-6: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   Assessment Of Cost: If the town removes from any lot or parcel of land
in the town, any infected, dead or substantially dead elm tree or dead elm
wood, which is a public nuisance as provided by this chapter, the assessment of
the cost of the work done by the town against the owner of the lot or parcel of
land involved shall be in addition to the penalties imposed herein for any
violation or noncompliance with any provision of this chapter.
   B.   Manner Of Making Payment: In the event the owner of any lot or parcel
of land from which infected dead or substantially dead elm tree or dead elm
wood has been removed agrees to the installment payment of the cost thereof,
the owner shall execute a promissory note payable to the town in monthly
installments, which shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per
annum, which note will provide for installment payments over a period of not to
exceed five (5) years and will further provide that in the event payments are
not promptly made when and as due, if any payment becomes ten (10) days or more
past due, the town clerk shall certify the unpaid balance to the Washington
County treasurer for the addition of assessment to general taxes by the county
treasurer. (1997 Code § 8.04.060)
5-3-7: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE ON TOWN PROPERTY:
Any elm tree or dead elm wood on property owned by the town which is a public
nuisance as defined in this chapter shall be promptly removed and burned under
the supervision of the town administrator at the expense of the town. (1997
Code § 8.04.070)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Permitted And Prohibited Burning
5-4-2: Exceptions
5-4-3: Board Authority To Prohibit
5-4-4: Abatement And Penalties
5-4-1: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED BURNING:
All fires within the Town of Akron shall be enclosed in a defined self-
contained enclosure such as a pit, with a burn area not to exceed two (2) feet
in height by three (3) feet in diameter. Such enclosures must be covered in a
way as to catch embers and sparks escaping from the fire by a covering such as
a metal grate, mesh, or spark arrestor. Only clean, untreated, and dry wood
shall be used as fuel. It shall be unlawful to burn any other fuel or in any
other manner, except as permitted under §
5-4-2. The use of burn barrels or other receptacles for burning trash, waste,
and materials other than clean, untreated, and dry wood is expressly
prohibited. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)
5-4-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The prohibitions of this Chapter 4 shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Training Fires: Fires set for the purpose of training firefighting
personnel, with the prior notification and approval of the town.
   B.   Food Preparation: Outdoor burning in connection with the preparation of
food, e.g., the use of propane, gas stoves, wood pellets, or charcoal briquette
grills.
   C.   Tobacco: The use of tobacco in any form consistent with the laws of the
state of Colorado and the ordinances of the town.
   D.   Gas fire pits. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)
5-4-3: BOARD AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT:
The board of trustees may prohibit all outdoor burning when atmospheric
conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. (Ord. 583, 8-1-
2022)
5-4-4: ABATEMENT AND PENALTIES:
If the Town Clerk, Town Public Works Director, Town fire personnel, or any Town
law enforcement designee determines that any burning within the Town of Akron
poses a threat to the public health or safety of the citizens of the Town of
Akron, he or she shall have the authority to summarily enter upon such property
and abate the condition or order evacuation without notice. Any person
convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished for each violation
by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day during
which such a violation occurs shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 583, 8-1-2022)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE USE
SECTION:
5-5-1: Findings
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Prohibition Of Public Smoking And Electronic Smoking Device Use
5-5-4: Other Requirements And Prohibitions
5-5-5: Penalties And Enforcement
5-5-6: Right Of Action
5-5-7: Severability
5-5-1: FINDINGS:
   WHEREAS, according to the U.S. Surgeon General, there is no safe level of
exposure to secondhand smoke and 1  even brief exposure to secondhand smoke can
be harmful to health 2  and;
   WHEREAS, the Town of Akron has determined that it is an appropriate and
proper exercise of its police powers pursuant to article 15, of title 31,
C.R.S. to prevent public exposure to secondhand smoke from tobacco and
Electronic Smoking Devices (e-cigarettes) in public places; and;
   WHEREAS, studies show that adolescents who live in communities with strong
smoke-free protections are less likely to smoke than adolescents who live in
communities with weaker protections 3 ; and
   WHEREAS, the aerosol or vapor from Electronic Smoking Devices (e-cigarettes)
is not harmless water vapor and not as safe as clean air 4 ; and
   WHEREAS, E-cigarettes and other Electronic Smoking Devices expose the public
to harmful chemicals, make the enforcement of smoke-free laws a challenge and
are very attractive to young people; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR THE TOWN OF
AKRON, COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:
The intent in enacting this ordinance is to provide for the public health,
safety, and welfare by discouraging the inherently dangerous behavior of
Smoking and Electronic Smoking Device use in municipal parks within the Town of
Akron, especially around children, by protecting the public from exposure to
secondhand Smoke. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
 
Notes
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of
  Smoking: 50 Years of Progress. A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA:
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and
1 Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
  Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. Printed with corrections,
  January 2014. Available at:
  http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/50th-anniversary/index.htm
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Best Practices for Comprehensive
  Tobacco Control Programs - 2014. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human
  Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for
2 Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and
  Health, 2014. Available at:
  http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best_practices/pdfs/2014/
  comprehensive.pdf
  Albers, A.B. et al. (2004). Relation between Local Restaurant Smoking
3 Regulations and Attitudes towards the Prevalence and Social Acceptability of
  Smoking: A Study of Youth and Adults who eat Out Predominately at Restaurants
  in Their Town. Tobacco Control, 13(4), pp 347-55.
  Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Office on Smoking and Health.
4 (2016). Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems: Key Facts. [Fact Sheet].
  Retrieved from: https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/pdfs/ends-key-
  facts2015-508tagged.pdf
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article shall have the
meanings defined in this Section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
                      any outdoor area owned and operated by the Town and open to the general
                      public for recreational purposes or public events, regardless of any fee or
AKRON MUNICIPAL PARK: age requirements. The term "Akron Municipal Park" specifically includes the
                      following described parcels of real estate situate in the County of
                      Washington, State of Colorado:
                      Lots 1 through 8, the N1/2 of Lot 9, and Lots 17 and 18 all of Block 3 of
   Akron City Park the Original Recorded Plat of the Town of Akron.
                      More commonly known as 345 Main Ave., Akron, CO 80720; and
                      That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW¼NW¼) of
                      Section 9, Township 2 North, Range 52 West of the 6th P.M., Washington
                      County, Colorado, lying North of Third Street (formerly known as Fillmore
   Akron Municipal Street) of said Town of Akron, Colorado, if said street were extended East,
Pool                  and being that part lying East of a line drawn parallel with and 300 feet
                      distant East of the East line of Date Street (formerly Golden Street) of
                      the Town of Akron, Colorado.
                      More commonly known as 382 Elm Street, Akron, CO 80720; and
                      That parcel commencing at a point 80 feet West of the Northwest corner of
                      Block One (1) of the First Addition to the Town of Akron (according the
                      recorded plat thereof); thence running West in the continuation of the
                      South line of Fulton Street (now known as First Street) to intersect the
                      West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section Eight (8), in
                      Township Two (2) North, Range Fifty-two (52) West of the 6th P.M.; thence
   State Park      South along said West line of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section
                      Eight (8) to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the South
                      line of said Block One (1); thence Easterly along said Westerly
                      prolongation of the South line of Block One (1) to the West line of Genoa
                      Street (now known as Custer Avenue); thence Northerly along said West line
                      of Genoa Street to the point of commencement aforesaid.
                      More commonly known as 402 West 1st St. Akron, CO 80720.
                      Any device that when activated emits a vapor, aerosol, or smoke or can be
                      used to deliver nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling from
                      the device, including, but not limited to e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes,
ELECTRONIC SMOKING    vape pens, e-hookahs, inhalant delivery systems or any other similar
DEVICE:               product by any other name or descriptor. An electronic smoking device
                      includes any component, part or accessory of such device whether or not
                      sold separately, regardless of nicotine content or any other substance
                      intended to be vaporized or aerosolized for human inhalation during the use
                      of the device.
                      A distance that ensures that people located within an area where smoking
REASONABLE DISTANCE:  and Electronic Smoking Device use is prohibited are not exposed to
                      secondhand smoke created by smokers outside the area. This distance shall
                      be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet in any direction.
                      The emissions or release of gases, particles, vapors or aerosols into the
                      air from burning, heating or activation of any device, including, but not
SMOKE:                limited to a cigarette, electronic smoking device, e-cigarette, vape pens,
                      e-hookahs or any other product by any name or descriptor when the apparent
                      or usual purpose of burning, heating or activation of the device is human
                      tasting and inhalation.
                      The act of burning, heating, activation or carrying of any device,
                      including, but not limited to a cigarette, cigar, pipe, hookah, or
SMOKING:              Electronic Smoking Device, electronic cigarette, vape pen, e-hookah or
                      similar device, by any other product name or descriptor, that results in
                      the release of smoke, vapors or aerosols when the apparent or usual purpose
                      of the burning, heating or activation of the device is human inhalation.
                      (1)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco or synthetic
                      tobacco whether or not said product contains nicotine that is intended for
                      human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
                      inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but
TOBACCO PRODUCT:      not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe
                      tobacco, snuff; and
                      (2)   Any Electronic Smoking Device; and
                      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of subsections (1) and (2) to the
                      contrary, "Tobacco Product" includes any component, part, or accessory of
                      Tobacco Product, whether or not sold separately. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
 
5-5-3: PROHIBITION OF PUBLIC SMOKING AND ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE USE:
   A.   Prohibition Of Smoking And Electronic Smoking Device Use Within Akron
Municipal Parks.
      1.   Smoking and electronic smoking device use is prohibited within all
Akron Municipal Parks and within a Reasonable Distance from any Akron Municipal
Park. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
5-5-4: OTHER REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall dispose of Tobacco Products or Electronic Smoking
Device(s) waste within the boundaries of Akron Municipal Park or within a
Reasonable Distance from any Akron Municipal Park.
   B.   Signage required.
      1.    In locations where Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device use is
prohibited by this Article the Town shall post a clear and conspicuous "No
Smoking" and Electronic Smoking Device use or "Smoke-free" and "Electronic
Smoking Device-Free" sign with the Town contact phone number where complaints
can be directed.
      2.   For purposes of this section, the Town Manager or his/her designee
shall be responsible for the posting of signs required hereunder.
      3.   Notwithstanding this provision, the presence or absence of signs
shall not be a defense to a charge of Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device
use in violation of any other provision of this Article.
      4.   No Person or Employer shall intimidate, threaten any reprisal, or
effect any reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against another Person who
seeks to attain compliance with this Article.
      5.   Each instance of Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device use in
violation of this Article shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 555, 3-
4-2019)
5-5-5: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The remedies provided by this Article are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   B.   Each incident of Smoking and/or Electronic Smoking Device use in
violation of this Article is an infraction subject to a $100.00 fine or
otherwise punishable pursuant to the Town Code. Other violations of this
Article may, at the discretion of the Town Attorney, be prosecuted as
infractions or misdemeanors when the interests of justice so require.
Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the persons or
entities with authority to enforce the Town Code for the Town of Akron. In
addition, any peace officer or code enforcement official also may enforce this
Chapter.
   C.   Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any
provision of this Article shall also constitute a violation of this Article.
(Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
5-5-6: RIGHT OF ACTION:
Except as otherwise provided, enforcement of this Article is at the sole
discretion of the Town. Nothing in this Article shall create a right of action
in any person against the Town or its agents to compel public enforcement of
this Article against private parties. (Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
5-5-7: SEVERABILITY:
It is the intent of the Board of Trustees of the Town of Akron to supplement
applicable state and federal law and not to duplicate or contradict such law
and this ordinance shall be construed consistently with that intention. If any
section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance,
or its application to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
the validity or enforceability of the remaining sections, subsections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases hereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more other sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases hereof be declared invalid or unenforceable.
(Ord. 555, 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 6
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
5-6-1: The Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings, 1997 Edition,
Adopted
5-6-2: Penalties
5-6-1: THE UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, 1997 EDITION,
ADOPTED:
   A.   The Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997
Edition, published by the International Conference of Building officials,
together with the appendices, tables, charts, lists and maps contained therein
is hereby adopted.
   B.   At least three (3) copies of the 1997 Edition of the Uniform Code for
the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, as amended hereby, shall be filed in the
office of the town clerk and shall be available at all times for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 592, 3-16-2024)
5-6-2: PENALTIES:
   Any person that violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with section 1-4-1 of the Akron
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 592, 3-16-2024)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Creation; Composition
6-1-2: Departmental Rules And Regulations
6-1-3: Chief Of Police
6-1-4: Police Officers
6-1-5: Pension Fund
6-1-1: CREATION; COMPOSITION:
There is created a police department for the town which shall consist of one
chief of police (town marshal) and as many police officer deputies as may from
time to time be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of the town.
(1997 Code § 2.36.010)
6-1-2: DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The police department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
board. (1997 Code § 2.36.020)
6-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: At its first regular meeting following each biennial
election, the board of trustees shall appoint a chief of police who shall be
the head of the police department.
   B.   Oath: Before entering upon the duties of such office, the chief of
police shall take and subscribe to an oath that he will support the
constitution and laws of the state of Colorado, constitution of the United
States and ordinances of the town of Akron, and that he will faithfully perform
the duties of the office upon which he is about to enter.
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to:
      1.   See that the ordinances of the town are duly enforced and the rules
and regulations of the police department obeyed, and to perform such duties as
may be required by the board.
      2.   Direct the operations of the police department, subject to the rules
and regulations thereof.
      3.   Arrest any person violating any of the town ordinances and take such
violator before the municipal court for trial.
      4.   Take charge of the town jail and all prisoners confined therein, and
all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or public works of the
town, and see that orders and sentences with reference to such are fully
executed and complied with.
      5.   Render such accounts of the police department, his duties, and
receipts as may be required by the board, and keep the records of his office
open to inspection by the board at any time. (1997 Code § 2.36.030)
6-1-4: POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Oath: Before entering the duties of his office, each police officer
shall take and subscribe an oath that he will support the constitution and laws
of the state of Colorado, the constitution of the United States, and the
ordinances of the town, and that he will faithfully perform the duties of the
office upon which he is about to enter. (1997 Code § 2.36.050)
   B.   Duties: All members of the police department shall have powers and
duties as follows:
      1.   They shall perform all duties required of town marshals.
      2.   They shall suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the
peace, apprehend all disorderly persons in the town, and shall pursue and
arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the state.
      3.   They shall be the enforcement officers of the town and shall see
that the provisions of this code and the laws of the state of Colorado are
complied with. They shall arrest without process all persons engaged in the
violation in their presence of any provision of this code or the law of the
state. Upon such arrest, they shall forthwith convey such offenders before the
proper officer to be dealt with according to law; provided, they may
incarcerate any person whom they shall arrest at a late and unusual hour of the
night until the following morning; and provided further, that in the special
cases relating to traffic offenses, they may release an arrested person upon
his written promise to appear in court.
      4.   They shall report such offenses as may come to their knowledge to
the proper town official or they shall report the same to the police
magistrate, securing a warrant for the arrest of offenders when desirable.
(1997 Code § 2.36.040)
      5.   They shall execute and return all writs and processes to them
directed by the municipal judge in any case arising under a town ordinance, and
they may serve the same in any part of the county. (1997 Code § 2.36.040; amd.
2016 Code)
      6.   They shall observe the condition of the streets, sidewalks and
alleys of the town, and of any obstruction, nuisance or impediments therein,
and shall take necessary measures to remove or abate the same. (1997 Code §
2.36.040)
6-1-5: PENSION FUND:
   A.   Management And Administration: The policemen's pension fund shall be
managed, administered, used and disbursed under the direction of a board of
trustees of the policemen's pension fund.
   B.   Compliance With Statute: The board of trustees of the policemen's
pension fund in the town shall act and perform the duties and exercise the
powers contained in Colorado Revised Statutes title 31, article 30.5 and shall
be composed as by statute provided. (1997 Code § 2.36.060)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-2-1: Department Established
6-2-2: Pension Fund
6-2-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
The town shall have a volunteer fire department and the board of trustees may
enter into a cooperative agreement with a fire protection district. The board
may pay all or a proportionate share of the necessary expenses for providing
and housing firefighting equipment and other expenses incidental to fire
protection. (1997 Code § 2.40.010)
6-2-2: PENSION FUND:
   A.   Management And Administration: The firemen's pension fund shall be
managed, administered, used and disbursed under the direction of a board of
trustees of the firemen's pension fund.
   B.   Compliance With Statute: The board of trustees of the firemen's pension
fund in the town shall act and perform the duties and exercise the powers
contained in Colorado Revised Statutes title 31, article 30.5 and shall be
composed as by statute provided. (1997 Code § 2.40.020)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY POLICE POWERS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose
6-3-2: Mayor's Authority
6-3-3: Mayor's Emergency Powers
6-3-1: PURPOSE:
The town will from time to time in the future, in all probability, have within
its corporate limits fire, flood, civil disturbances and riots; and, therefore,
it is deemed in the best interest of Akron to exercise certain emergency police
powers necessary to and incidental to the maintenance of the safety, health and
welfare of the citizens of Akron. (1997 Code § 2.56.010)
6-3-2: MAYOR'S AUTHORITY:
Emergency police powers shall be placed in the hands of the mayor of the town
and these powers should be exercised only in the event of an emergency as
herein contemplated and shall only be exercised for such period of time as the
actual emergency exists; and further, these powers shall only be invoked after
a declaration and proclamation of an emergency. (1997 Code § 2.56.020)
6-3-3: MAYOR'S EMERGENCY POWERS:
In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this code, the mayor shall have
further emergency powers necessary to preserve the peace and order of the town
as follows:
   A.   Conditions For Declaring Emergency: The mayor shall have the power to
declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the
following conditions exist:
      1.   That there is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or
property due to unusual conditions.
      2.   Unusual or extreme weather conditions, use of town streets or areas
difficult or impossible.
      3.   Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
      4.   There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major
portion of the town.
   B.   Proclamation Of Mayor: The emergency shall be declared in a
proclamation of the mayor, which proclamation shall be delivered to the chief
of police, who shall then see that the proclamation is delivered to all news
media within the town and who shall also use public address systems throughout
the town and immediately notify the public of the proclamation and that
violators will be arrested and subject to penalty.
   C.   Authority After Emergency Declaration: After declaration of such
emergency, the mayor shall have the authority to exercise any or all of the
following powers:
      1.   To call upon regular and auxiliary enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the town to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace and the preservation of life and property of the citizenry of Akron.
      2.   To close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the
town wherein an emergency exists.
      3.   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the town thereby
requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove
themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks or other public places;
provided, however, that physicians, nurses and ambulance operators performing
medical services, utility personnel maintaining essential public service,
firefighters and town authorized or requested enforcement officers and
personnel may be exempted from such curfew.
      4.   To order the closing of any business establishments anywhere within
the town for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not
be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, malt beverages, gasoline or
firearms.
      5.   To do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation
of life, limb and property within the town.
   D.   Area And Effective Time: The proclamation of specifying with exactness
the area in which the emergency is declared to exist shall become effective
upon its issuance and dissemination to the public by the appropriate news
media.
   E.   Term Of Emergency Proclamation:
      1.   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall terminate after forty eight (48) hours from the issuance thereof,
or upon the issuance of a proclamation determining an emergency no longer
exists, whichever occurs first; provided, however, upon declaration of a second
or further emergencies to exist, the emergency powers set forth herein may be
exercised during such further emergency period or periods, but never for more
than forty eight (48) hours in one declared emergency period.
      2.   No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or
called meeting of the board of trustees unless at such meeting the declaration
of emergency is specifically approved by resolution of the board. (1997 Code §
2.56.030)
CHAPTER 4
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND RETAIL STORES PROHIBITED
SECTION:
6-4-1: Findings And Legislative Intent
6-4-2: Intent, Authority And Applicability
6-4-3: Definitions
6-4-4: Marijuana Facilities, Clubs And Stores Prohibited
6-4-5: Medical Marijuana Centers, Optional Premises Cultivation Operations And
Medical Marijuana Infused Products Manufacturers' Licenses Prohibited
6-4-6: Prohibitions Regarding Marijuana Cultivation
6-4-7: Violations; Penalties
6-4-1: FINDINGS AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
The board of trustees makes the following legislative findings:
   A.   The board of trustees finds and determines that amendment 64 to the
Colorado constitution, found at article XVIII, section 16, specifically
authorizes the board of trustees of the town by ordinance to prohibit the
operation of marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing
facilities, marijuana testing facilities, marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana
stores.
   B.   The board of trustees finds and determines after careful consideration
of the provisions of amendment 64, article XVIII, section 16 to the Colorado
constitution; and the results of the 2010 and 2012 elections; and after
evaluating, inter alia, the potential secondary impacts associated with the
retail sale, distribution, cultivation, manufacturing, and testing of marijuana
through marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing
facilities, marijuana testing facilities, marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana
stores, that such land uses have an adverse effect on the health, safety, and
welfare of the town and the citizens thereof.
   C.   The board of trustees, therefore, finds and determines that as a result
of the votes of the 2010 and 2012 elections and as a matter of the town's local
land use, zoning authority, and police powers as a statutory town pursuant to
Colorado law and consistent with the authorization provided by amendment 64,
that no suitable location exists within the corporate limits of the town for
the cultivation, manufacture, and sale of marijuana by the operation of
marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana product manufacturing facilities,
marijuana testing facilities, marijuana clubs, or retail marijuana stores.
(Ord. 511, 9-9-2013)
6-4-2: INTENT, AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to prohibit certain land uses
related to marijuana, and in furtherance of its intent, the board of trustees
makes the following findings:
      1.   The Colorado medical marijuana code, Colorado Revised Statutes
section 12-43.3-101 et seq., clarifies Colorado law regarding the scope and
extent of article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution;
      2.   The Colorado medical marijuana code specifically authorizes the
governing body of a municipality to "vote to prohibit the operation of medical
marijuana centers, optional premises cultivation operations, and medical
marijuana infused products manufacturers' licenses";
      3.   The Colorado medical marijuana code specifically authorizes a
municipality "to prohibit the operation of medical marijuana centers, optional
premises cultivation operations, and medical marijuana infused products
manufacturers' licenses...based on local government zoning, health, safety and
welfare laws for the distribution of medical marijuana";
      4.   Article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution specifically
authorizes a municipality "to prohibit the operation of marijuana cultivation
facilities, marijuana product manufacturing facilities, marijuana testing
facilities, or retail marijuana stores through the enactment of an ordinance";
      5.   Based on careful consideration of the Colorado medical marijuana
code, article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution, article XVIII,
section 16 of the Colorado constitution, and the potential secondary effects of
the cultivation, sale, distribution, manufacturing, consumption and dispensing
of marijuana or marijuana infused products, such land uses have an adverse
effect on the health, safety and welfare of the town and its inhabitants.
   B.   Authority: The town's authority to adopt this section is found in: the
Colorado medical marijuana code, Colorado Revised Statutes section 12-43.3-101
et seq.; article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado constitution, the local
government land use control enabling act, Colorado Revised Statutes section 29-
20-101 et seq.; Colorado Revised Statutes section 31-23-101 et seq. (municipal
zoning powers); Colorado Revised Statutes sections 31-15-103, 31-15-401
(municipal police powers); Colorado Revised Statutes section 31-15-501
(municipal authority to regulate businesses); and the election results of the
2010 and 2012 elections.
   C.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all property within the
town. To the extent that the town is required to allow the cultivation of
medical marijuana or marijuana for personal use under state law, the rules set
forth herein shall apply. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to
permit marijuana dispensaries of any kind otherwise prohibited by this or any
other chapter. If the Colorado medical marijuana code, article XVIII, section
14 of the Colorado constitution, article XVIII, section 16 of the Colorado
constitution are declared unlawful in violation of federal law, nothing in this
code shall be deemed to permit the cultivation, possession or use of marijuana
for medical or any other purpose. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
provide a defense to the prosecution of offenses under the federal controlled
substances act occurring in the town of Akron. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
6-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise specified or the context
otherwise requires, any terms used herein shall have the same meanings as
provided in article XVIII, section 16 to the Colorado constitution. These
definitions include, but are not limited to, the following:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A subordinate structure detached from but located on the
same lot as the primary residence, the use of which is incidental and accessory
to that of the primary residence.
MARIJUANA: All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis whether growing or not,
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or its resin, including marijuana concentrate. Marijuana does
include medical marijuana but does not include industrial hemp, nor does it
include fiber produced from the stalks, oil, or cake made from the seeds of the
plant, sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination, or the
weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or
oral administrations, food, drink, or other product.
MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES: Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing, or containing marijuana, or for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
MARIJUANA CLUB: An entity that allows members and their guests to consume
marijuana or marijuana products on the premises in a commercially zoned area.
MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY: An entity licensed to cultivate, prepare, and
package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to marijuana
product manufacturing facilities and to other marijuana cultivation facilities,
but not to consumers.
MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT: A marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana testing
facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility, or a retail marijuana
store.
MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY: An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare, and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Concentrated marijuana products and marijuana products that
are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and are intended for use or
consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible products, ointments, and
tinctures.
MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY: An entity licensed to analyze and certify the
safety and potency of marijuana.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA: Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose authorized by
article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTER: A person authorized to be licensed to operate a
business as described in the Colorado medical marijuana code that sells medical
marijuana to registered patients or primary caregivers as defined in article
XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution, but is not a primary caregiver,
and which a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER: A person licensed pursuant to
the Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business pursuant to a medical
marijuana infused products manufacturing license, and that a municipality is
authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION OPERATION: A person licensed pursuant to the
Colorado medical marijuana code to operate a business known as an optional
premises grow facility in order to grow and cultivate marijuana for a purpose
authorized by article XVIII, section 14 of the Colorado constitution, and that
a municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
PATIENT: Has the meaning provided in article XVIII, section 14(1)(d) of the
Colorado constitution.
PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
limited liability company, or organization, or a manager, agent, owner,
director, servant, officer, or employee thereof.
PRIMARY CAREGIVER: Has the meaning provided in article XVIII, section 14(1)(f)
of the Colorado constitution.
PRIMARY RESIDENCE: A residence where a person, by custom and practice, makes
his or her principal domicile and address and to which the person intends to
return following any temporary absence, such as a vacation. Residence is
evidenced by actual daily physical presence, use and occupancy of the primary
residence and use of the residential address for domestic purposes, such as,
but not limited to, slumber, preparation and partaking of meals, regular mail
delivery, vehicle registration, or credit, water and utility billing. A person
shall have only one primary residence.
RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE: An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from marijuana
cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from marijuana
product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana products
to consumers. (Ord. 511, 9-9-2013; amd. Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
6-4-4: MARIJUANA FACILITIES, CLUBS AND STORES PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated, or
permit to be operated a marijuana cultivation facility, marijuana product
manufacturing facility, marijuana testing facility, marijuana club, or retail
marijuana store within the town, and all such uses are hereby prohibited in any
location within the town, or within any area hereinafter annexed to the town.
   B.   The use of property as a marijuana cultivation facility, marijuana
product manufacturing facility, marijuana testing facility, marijuana club, or
retail marijuana store within the town are all uses prohibited in any zoning
district. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
6-4-5: MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTERS, OPTIONAL PREMISES CULTIVATION OPERATIONS AND
MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURERS' LICENSES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Operation Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause
to be operated or permit to be operated a medical marijuana center, an optional
premises cultivation operation, or a facility for which a medical marijuana
infused products manufacturers' license could otherwise be obtained within the
town, and all such uses are hereby prohibited in any location within the town,
or within any area hereinafter annexed to the town.
   B.   Use Prohibited: The use of property as a medical marijuana center,
optional premises cultivation operation, or a facility for which a medical
marijuana infused products manufacturers' license could otherwise be obtained
within the town, are all uses prohibited in any zoning district.
   C.   Patients And Primary Caregivers: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prohibit, regulate or otherwise impair the use of medical
marijuana by patients as defined by the Colorado constitution or the provision
of medical marijuana by a primary caregiver to a patient in accordance with the
Colorado constitution and consistent with Colorado Revised Statutes section 25-
1.5-106 and rules promulgated thereunder, as the statute and rules may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
6-4-6: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MARIJUANA CULTIVATION:
   A.   It is unlawful to grow medical marijuana or marijuana for personal or
medicinal use anywhere in the town other than in an enclosed, locked space
within a detached single-family residential property used as that person's
primary residence, or single-family residential garage or in a detached
accessory structure on the same lot as the primary residence under the
ownership of the person cultivating the marijuana or with the written
permission of the property owner. "Enclosed" means having a roof and all sides
closed to the weather with walls, windows or doors.
   B.   At any given time, no more than twelve (12) marijuana plants in any
stage of maturity may be grown, cultivated or processed at a primary residence
or in an accessory structure.
   C.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana inside a residential dwelling in
an area exceeding fifty (50) square feet or exceeding a height of ten feet
(10'). This limit applies regardless of the number of qualified patients or
caregivers or persons otherwise allowed to possess and grow marijuana for
personal use residing in the residence. The cultivation area shall be a single,
locked area and shall not be accessible to anyone under the age of twenty one
(21).
   D.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in a detached accessory structure
that is greater than fifty (50) square feet or more than ten feet (10') in
height or in an attached or detached garage in an area that is greater than
fifty (50) square feet. Any garage or accessory structure used for the
cultivation of marijuana, including all walls, doors, and the roof, shall be
constructed with a firewall assembly of type X drywall meeting the minimum
building code requirements for residential structures. Other provisions of this
chapter notwithstanding, a building permit is required for an accessory
structure used for growing marijuana and it must meet setback requirements of
structures greater than fifty (50) square feet.
   E.   It is unlawful to use any lighting for the indoor cultivation of
marijuana other than light emitting diodes (LED), compact fluorescent lamps
(CFL) or fluorescent lighting. All high intensity discharge (HID) lighting
including, but not limited to, mercury vapor lamps, metal halide (MH) lamps,
ceramic MH lamps, sodium vapor lamps, high pressure sodium (HPS) lamps and
xenon short arc lamps are prohibited.
   F.   It is unlawful to use flammable gas products (e.g., butane) or
flammable liquid products for indoor marijuana cultivation or processing. For
purposes of this paragraph, "flammable liquid" means a liquid that has a
flashpoint below one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) and includes all forms
of alcohol and ethanol.
   G.   It is unlawful to use a kitchen, bathroom, or primary bedroom for the
indoor cultivation of marijuana.
   H.   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in any structure without
complying with applicable building and fire codes, including plumbing and
electrical, and all applicable zoning codes, including, but not limited to, lot
coverage, setback and height requirements.
   I.   Any indoor marijuana cultivation area shall include a ventilation and
filtration system designed to ensure that odors from the cultivation are not
detectable beyond the property line for detached single-family residential, and
designed to prevent mold and moisture and otherwise protect the health and
safety of persons residing in the residence. This shall include, at a minimum,
a system meeting the requirements of the current, adopted edition of the
international residential building code.
   J.   It is unlawful to store chemicals used for marijuana cultivation inside
of the habitable areas of the residence or within public view from neighboring
properties and public rights of way.
   K.   It shall be unlawful for any marijuana cultivation activity to
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust,
glare, heat, noise, noxious gases, odor, smoke, traffic, vibration, or other
impacts; or be hazardous due to the use or storage of materials, processes,
products or wastes, or from other actions related to the cultivation.
   L.   Marijuana shall not be grown, cultivated, or processed in more than one
structure on any single lot, parcel, or tract.
   M.   Nonresidential buildings or structures that are not accessory to a
primary residence shall not be used for the growing, cultivating, or processing
of marijuana.
   N.   Marijuana shall not be grown, cultivated, or processed outdoors. (Ord.
544, 10-3-2016)
6-4-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 511, 9-9-2013; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
   B.   Each and every day a violation of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, exists, or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   The town is specifically authorized to seek an injunction, abatement,
restitution, or any other remedy necessary to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove
the violation.
   D.   Any remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive
and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law or in equity.
(Ord. 511, 9-9-2013; amd. Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Resisting An Officer; Escaping; Rescuing Prisoner
6-5A-2: Duty Of Citizens To Aid Police Officers
6-5A-3: Impersonating Officials
6-5A-4: False Alarms
6-5A-1: RESISTING AN OFFICER; ESCAPING; RESCUING PRISONER:
   A.   Resisting An Officer: It is unlawful for any person to resist any
police officer, any member of the police department, or any person duly
empowered with police authority, while in the discharge or apparent discharge
of his duty, or in any way to interfere with or hinder him in the discharge of
his duty.
   B.   Assisting In Escape: It is unlawful for any person to offer or endeavor
to assist any person in the custody of a police officer, a member of the police
department or a person duly empowered with police authority to escape or to
attempt to escape from such custody.
   C.   Rescuing Prisoner: It is unlawful for any person to rescue or to
attempt to rescue any person in the custody of a police officer, a member of
the police department or a person duly empowered with police authority. (1997
Code §9.04.010)
6-5A-2: DUTY OF CITIZENS TO AID POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of all persons, when called upon by any police officer or
any other member of the police department, to promptly aid and assist such
officer or member in the discharge of his duties. (1997 Code §9.04.020)
6-5A-3: IMPERSONATING OFFICIALS:
   A.   Police Officers:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person other than an official police officer
of the town to wear the uniform, apparel, or any other insignia of office like
or similar to, or a colorable imitation of that adopted and worn by the
official police officers.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit, imitate or cause to be
counterfeited, imitated or colorably imitated, the uniform, apparel, or
insignia of officer used by the police department of the town. (1997 Code
§9.04.030)
   B.   Town Officers And Employees: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully,
unlawfully, or fraudulently represent himself to be a town officer or an
employee of the city and purporting to perform the duties of any such officer
or employee when he is not an authorized officer or employee of the town. (1997
Code §9.04.040)
6-5A-4: FALSE ALARMS:
Any person who shall, in the town, intentionally make or give a false alarm of
fire shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1997 Code §9.04.050)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault
6-5B-2: Throwing Of Stones And Missiles
6-5B-3: Disorderly Conduct
6-5B-4: Assembling To Commit Unlawful Act
6-5B-5: Disturbing Religious Worship
6-5B-6: Disturbing The Peace; Using Offensive Language
6-5B-7: Drunk And Disorderly
6-5B-8: Harassment
6-5B-9: Abandoned Containers, Wells Or Cisterns
6-5B-10: Explosives
6-5B-11: Weapons
6-5B-12: Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia
6-5B-1: ASSAULT:
No person shall knowingly or recklessly use physical force against another in a
violent or angry manner. (Ord. 534, 10-5-2015)
6-5B-2: THROWING OF STONES AND MISSILES:
No person shall throw or shoot any stone or other missile at or upon any
person, animal, public or private property, building, structure, tree or shrub.
(1997 Code §9.08.020)
6-5B-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct if he intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly:
      1.   Makes a coarse and obviously offensive utterance, gesture or display
in a public place and the utterance, gesture or display tends to incite an
immediate breach of the peace; or
      2.   Abuses or threatens a person in a public place in an obviously
offensive manner; or
      3.   Makes unreasonable noise in a public place or near a private
residence that he has no right to occupy; or
      4.   Fights with another in a public place except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill; or
      5.   Not being a peace officer, discharges a firearm in a public place
except when engaged in lawful target practice or hunting; or
      6.   Not being a peace officer, displays a deadly weapon in a public
place in a manner calculated to alarm.
   B.   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under subsection A2 of this
section that the actor had significant provocation for the abusive or
threatening conduct. (1997 Code §9.08.030)
6-5B-4: ASSEMBLING TO COMMIT UNLAWFUL ACT:
It is unlawful for any three (3) or more persons to assemble together in the
town with an intent to do any unlawful act; or, being assembled, mutually to
agree or act in concert, to do an unlawful act with force or violence against
the property of the town or the person or property of another or against the
peace and to the terror of others; or to make any more or preparation therefor;
or, being present at such meeting or assembly, to fail to endeavor to prevent
the commission of or perpetration of such unlawful act. (1997 Code §9.08.040)
6-5B-5: DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to disquiet or disturb any
congregation or assembly for religious worship by making a noise or by rude or
indecent behavior, or profane discourse within their place of worship, or so
near the same as to disturb the order or solemnity of the meeting. (1997 Code
§9.08.050)
6-5B-6: DISTURBING THE PEACE; USING OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or intend to disturb the peace
of others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, or by loud
or unusual noises, or by unseemly, profane, obscene, or offensive language,
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace; or by assaulting, striking or
fighting another, or for any person to permit any such conduct in any house or
upon any premises owned or possessed by him under his management or control,
when within his power to prevent, so that others in the vicinity are or may be
disturbed thereby. (1997 Code §9.08.060)
6-5B-7: DRUNK AND DISORDERLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk or disorderly in any highways,
streets, thoroughfares or other public places, or in any private house or
place, within the town to such an extent as to be obnoxious to public morals or
to jeopardize or to be injurious to person or property. (1997 Code §9.08.070)
6-5B-8: HARASSMENT:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
   CONDUCT: In connection with a credible threat, acts which further, advance,
promote, or have a continuity of purpose, and may occur before, during, or
after the credible threat.
   CREDIBLE THREAT: A threat, physical action, or repeated conduct that would
cause a reasonable person to be in fear for their safety or the safety of their
immediate family or of someone with whom the person has or has had a continuing
relationship. Such threat need not be directly expressed if the totality of the
conduct would cause a reasonable person to fear.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Includes the person's spouse and the person's parent,
grandparent, sibling, or child.
   OBSCENE: Any patently offensive language including, but not limited to, any
description of ultimate sexual acts or solicitation to commit ultimate sexual
acts, whether or not the ultimate sexual acts are normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, including masturbation, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus, or
excretory functions.
   PROTECTED PERSON: The person or persons identified in the restraining order
as the person or persons for whose benefit the restraining order was issued.
   REPEATED OR REPEATEDLY: On more than one occasion.
   RESTRAINING ORDER: Any civil or criminal restraining or protection order
that prohibits the restrained person from contacting, harassing, injuring,
intimidating, molesting, threatening, or touching any protected person; or from
entering or remaining on premises; or from coming within a specified distance
of a protected person or premises or any other provision to protect the
protected person from imminent danger to life or health, that is issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction. The term "restraining order" also includes any
order that amends, modifies, supplements, or supersedes the initial restraining
order.
   B.   Actions Considered As Harassment: It shall be unlawful for any person
to harass another. A person commits harassment if, with intent to harass,
annoy, or alarm another person, such person:
      1.   Strikes, shoves, kicks, or otherwise touches another person or
subjects another person to physical contact; or
      2.   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an obscene
gesture to or at another person; or
      3.   Follows another person in or about a public or private place; or
(Ord. 487, 8-4-2008)
      4.   Initiates communication with another person, anonymously or
otherwise, by telephone, telephone network, data network, text message, instant
message, computer, computer network, or computer system in a manner intended to
harass, annoy, alarm another person or intended to threaten bodily injury or
property damage; or (Ord. 532, 10-5-2015)
      5.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to another
person by telephone, computer, computer network, or computer system that is
obscene; or
      6.   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose of legitimate
conversation; or
      7.   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that invade the
privacy of another and interfere in the use and enjoyment of another's home or
private residence or other private property; or
      8.   Repeatedly insults, taunts, challenges, or makes communications in
offensively coarse language to another in a manner likely to provoke a violent
or disorderly response.
   C.   Place Where Act Committed: Any act prohibited by subsection B of this
section may be deemed to have occurred or to have been committed at the place
at which the telephone call, electronic mail, or other electronic communication
was either made or received.
   D.   Stalking: A person commits stalking if, directly or indirectly through
another person, such person knowingly:
      1.   Makes a credible threat to another person and, in connection with
that threat, repeatedly follows, approaches, contacts, or places under
surveillance another person, a member of that person's immediate family, or
someone with whom that person has or has had a continuing relationship; or
      2.   Makes a credible threat to another person and, in connection with
that threat, repeatedly makes any form of communication with another person, a
member of that person's immediate family, or someone with whom that person has
or has had a continuing relationship, regardless of whether a conversation
ensues; or
      3.   Repeatedly follows, approaches, contacts, places under surveillance,
or makes any form of communication with another person, a member of that
person's immediate family, or someone with whom that person has or has had a
continuing relationship in a manner that would cause a reasonable person to
suffer serious emotional distress and does cause that person, a member of that
person's immediate family, or someone with whom that person has or has had a
continuing relationship to suffer serious emotional distress. For purposes of
this section, a victim need not show that the victim received professional
treatment or counseling to show that the victim suffered serious emotional
distress.
   E.   Violation Of Restraining Order: It shall be unlawful for any person to
commit the offense of violating a restraining order. A person commits the
offense of violating a restraining order if such person contacts, harasses,
injures, intimidates, molests, threatens, or touches any protected person;
enters or remains on premises; comes within a specified distance of a protected
person or premises; or violates any other provision of a restraining order to
protect the protected person from imminent danger to life or health, and such
conduct is prohibited by a restraining order, after such person has been
personally served with any such order or otherwise has acquired from the court
actual knowledge of the contents of any such order. (Ord. 487, 8-4-2008)
   F.   Penalty: Violations of this section shall be punishable as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 487, 8-4-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-9: ABANDONED CONTAINERS, WELLS OR CISTERNS:
It is unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snap lock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside without first removing the door or lid, snap
lock or other locking device. (1997 Code §9.16.020)
6-5B-10: EXPLOSIVES:
It is unlawful for any person to store within the town limits or within one
mile thereof any amount of gunpowder, blasting powder, nitroglycerin, dynamite
or other high explosives in excess of one 50-pound box or in excess of five
hundred (500) caps or other devices used for the detonation of such high
explosives. (1997 Code §9.16.010)
6-5B-11: WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Concealed Weapons:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to wear under his clothes, or
concealed about his person, or to display in a threatening manner, any
dangerous or deadly weapon including, but not by way of limitation, any pistol,
revolver, slingshot, cross knuckles or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal,
or any bowie knife, dirk, dagger or any knife resembling a bowie knife, or any
other dangerous or deadly weapon.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, company or association to sell,
offer to sell, display, use, possess or carry any knife or knives having the
appearance of a pocketknife, the blade or blades of which can be opened by a
flick of a button, pressure on the handle, or other mechanical contrivance. Any
such knife is declared to be a dangerous or deadly weapon within the meaning of
subsection A1 of this section, and shall be subject to forfeiture to the town
as provided in subsection A3 of this section.
      3.   Every person convicted of any violation of this subsection A shall
forfeit to the town such dangerous or deadly weapon so concealed or displayed.
      4.   Nothing in this subsection A shall be construed to forbid United
States marshals, sheriffs, constables and their deputies, and any regular,
special or ex officio police officer, or any other law enforcement officer from
carrying or wearing, while on duty, such weapons as shall be necessary in the
proper discharge of their duties. (1997 Code § 9.32.010)
   B.   Disposition Of Confiscated Concealed Weapons: It shall be the duty of
every police officer, upon making any arrest and taking such a concealed weapon
from the person of the offender, to deliver the same to the municipal judge to
be held by him until the final determination of the prosecution for the
offense; and upon the finding of guilt, it shall then be the duty of the
municipal judge to deliver the weapon forthwith to the chief of police who
shall make disposition of the weapon. (1997 Code § 9.32.020)
   C.   Selling Weapons To Intoxicated Persons:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to purchase,
sell, loan or furnish any gun, pistol, or other firearm in which any explosive
substance can be used, to any person under the influence of alcohol or any
narcotic drug, stimulant or depressant, or to any person in a condition of
agitation and excitability, or to any minor under the age of eighteen (18)
years.
      2.   Further, such unlawful purchase, sale, loan or furnishing shall be
grounds for revocation of any license issued by the town to such person, firm
or corporation. (1997 Code § 9.32.030)
   D.   Possession, Carrying Or Using Dangerous Or Deadly Weapons: It shall be
unlawful for any person to have in his possession except within his own
domicile, or to carry or use, a revolver or pistol of any description, shotgun,
or rifle, which may be used for the explosion of cartridges, or any air gun,
gas operated gun or spring gun, or any instrument, toy or weapon commonly known
as a "peashooter", "slingshot", or "beanie" or any bow made for the purpose of
throwing or projecting missiles of any kind by any means whatsoever, whether
such instrument is called by any name set forth above or by any other name;
provided, that nothing in this subsection contained shall prevent the use of
any such instruments in shooting galleries or in any private grounds or
residence under circumstances when such instrument can be fired, discharged, or
operated in such a manner as not to endanger persons or property and also in
such manner as to prevent the projectile from traversing any grounds or space
outside the limits of such gallery, grounds or residence; and further provided,
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the concealed
carrying of any type of gun whatsoever when unloaded and properly cased, to or
from any range or gallery. (1997 Code § 9.32.040)
   E.   Exception, Permit To Carry Concealed Weapon: The provisions of this
section shall not apply to a person who, at the time of carrying the concealed
weapon, held a valid written permit to carry a concealed weapon issued pursuant
to Colorado Revised Statutes section 18-12-105.1, as it existed prior to its
repeal; or, if the weapon involved was a handgun, held a valid permit to carry
a concealed handgun or a temporary emergency permit issued pursuant to Colorado
Revised Statutes title 18, article 12, part 2, except that it shall be an
offense under this section if the person was carrying a concealed handgun in
violation of Colorado Revised Statutes section 18-12-214.
   F.   Lawful Carrying Of Firearms In Certain Town Buildings: It shall not be
a violation of this section or of C.R.S. § 18-12-105.3(1)(b) to carry a firearm
within any building in which the board of trustees of the town’s chambers are
located, in any building in which a meeting of the board of trustees of the
town is being conducted, in any building in which the official office of any
trustee of the town is located, or in any building in which the office of the
town administrator is located.
(Ord. 533, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 597, 10-11-2024)
6-5B-12: DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug or other substance or an immediate precursor
which is declared to be a controlled substance, and also includes marijuana and
marijuana concentrate.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the laws
of the town.
   MARIJUANA: Shall have the same meaning as in section
6-4-3 of this title.
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES: Shall have the same meaning as in section
6-4-3 of this title.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Shall have the same meaning as in section
6-4-3 of this title.
   OPENLY AND PUBLICLY: In a manner perceptible by or in a place accessible to
the members of the community.
   PUBLIC AREA OR BUILDING: A place open to the general public which includes a
place to which the public or a substantial number of the public has access
without restriction, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, public
sidewalks, transportation facilities including rest areas, places of amusement,
parks, playgrounds, town owned open spaces, common open spaces owned by owners'
associations, common areas of public buildings and facilities that are
generally open or accessible to members of the public without restriction,
parking lots and areas and shopping centers or shopping areas.
   B.   Possession Of Marijuana, Marijuana Products And Marijuana Accessories:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to consume, possess, transfer, transport or purchase marijuana products,
marijuana accessories or less than one ounce of marijuana.
      2.   It is unlawful for a person twenty one (21) years of age or older to
possess, transfer, transport or purchase less than one ounce of marijuana,
marijuana products or marijuana accessories for any reason other than personal
use unless the person has obtained a current valid license to operate a
marijuana product manufacturing facility, testing facility, cultivation agent
of a licensed manufacturing, testing, cultivation or retail marijuana facility.
      3.   It is unlawful for a person of any age to consume marijuana openly
and publicly or in a manner that endangers others.
      4.   It is unlawful to make marijuana grown for personal use available
for sale in any manner.
      5.   It is unlawful to possess, use, display, transfer, sell, transport,
grow or purchase marijuana products, marijuana accessories or less than one
ounce of marijuana in any public area or building, except that marijuana or
marijuana products may be transported on public streets, roads and highways if
the person has obtained a current, valid license to operate a marijuana product
manufacturing facility, testing facility, cultivation facility or retail
marijuana store or is acting in his or her capacity as an owner, employee or
agent of a licensed manufacturing, testing, cultivation or retail marijuana
facility.
   C.   Possession, Sale Or Promotion Of Paraphernalia:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this section for any person who knowingly
commits the following:
         a.   Possess drug paraphernalia and knows or reasonably should know
that the drug paraphernalia could be used under circumstances in violation of
the laws of this town.
         b.   Sell or deliver, possess with intent to sell or deliver or
manufacture with intent to sell or reasonably should know, that such equipment,
products or materials could be used as drug paraphernalia.
         c.   Place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or
other publication and intends thereby to promote the sale in the town of
equipment, products or materials designed and intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      2.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, the
municipal court, in its discretion, may consider, in addition to all other
relevant factors, the following:
         a.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         b.   The proximity of the object to a controlled substance;
         c.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         d.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the knowledge of an owner or
of anyone in control of the object, or evidence that such person reasonably
should know, that it will be delivered to persons who he or she knows, or
reasonably should know, could use the object to facilitate a violation of this
section;
         e.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which
explain or depict its use;
         f.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         g.   National or local advertising concerning its use;
         h.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         i.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
supplier of like or related items to the community for legal purposes, such as
an authorized distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         j.   The existence and scope of legal uses for the object in the
community; and
         k.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (Ord. 544, 10-3-2016)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Gambling
6-5C-2: Public Indecency
6-5C-3: Indecent Exposure
6-5C-4: Window Peeping
6-5C-5: Dissemination Of Obscene Materials
6-5C-1: GAMBLING:
   A.   Gambling Unlawful; Definitions:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   GAIN: The direct realization of winnings; "profit" means any other realized
or unrealized benefit, direct or indirect, including, without limitation,
benefits from proprietorship, management, or unequal advantage in a series of
transactions.
   GAMBLING: Risking any money, credit, deposit or other thing of value for
gain contingent in whole or in part upon lot, chance, the operation of a
gambling device, or the happening or outcome of an event including a sporting
event, over which the person taking a risk has no control, but does not
include:
         a.   Bona fide contests of skill, speed, strength, or endurance in
which awards are made only to entrants or the owners of entries;
         b.   Bona fide business transactions which are valid under the law of
contracts;
         c.   Other acts or transactions now or hereafter expressly authorized
by law;
         d.   Any game, wager, or transaction which is incidental to a bona
fide social relationship, is participated in by natural persons only, and in
which no person is participating, directly or indirectly, in professional
gambling; or
         e.   Any use of or transaction involving a crane game, as defined in
Colorado Revised Statutes section 12-47.1-103(5.5).
   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any device, machine, paraphernalia, or equipment that is
used or usable in the playing phase of any professional gambling activity,
whether that activity consists of gambling between persons or gambling by a
person involving the playing of a machine; except that, the term does not
include a crane game, as defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section 12-47.1-
103(5.5).
   PROFESSIONAL GAMBLING:
         a.   Aiding or inducing another to engage in gambling, with the intent
to derive a profit therefrom; or
         b.   Participating in gambling and having, other than by virtue of
skill or luck, a lesser chance of losing or a greater chance of winning than
one or more of the other participants.
      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to engage in gambling
activities or in professional gambling for gain within the town. (1997 Code
§9.12.010; amd. Ord. 535, 10-5-2015)
   B.   Possession Of Gambling Device Or Record:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection B2 of this section, a person who
owns, manufactures, sells, transports, possesses or engages in any transaction
designed to affect the ownership, custody or use of a gambling device or
gambling record, knowing that it is to be used in professional gambling shall
be guilty of possession of a gambling device or records.
      2.   The sale, transportation, manufacture and remanufacture of gambling
devices, including the acquisition of essential parts therefor and the assembly
of such parts, is permitted if such devices are sold, transported, manufactured
and remanufactured only for transportation in interstate or foreign commerce
when such transportation is not prohibited by any applicable foreign, state or
federal law. Storage of gambling devices is also permitted but only for
purposes of manufacturing, remanufacturing and transporting such devices in
interstate or foreign commerce when their transportation is not prohibited.
Such activities may be conducted only by persons who have registered with the
United States government pursuant to the provisions of chapter 24 of title XV
of the United States Code, as amended. Such gambling devices shall not be
openly displayed, except to legal buyers, or sold for use in Colorado
regardless of where purchased nor manufactured, remanufactured or stored for
purposes of manufacture, remanufacture and transportation in violation of any
applicable state or federal law. For the purposes of this subsection, "legal
buyer" means a buyer who resides in another state or country which does not
restrict the possession of the specific gambling device in question. (1997 Code
§9.12.020)
   C.   Transmission And Receipt Of Gambling Information: It is unlawful for
any person to knowingly transmit or receive gambling information by telephone,
telegraph, radio, semaphore or other means, or knowingly to install or maintain
equipment for the transmission or receipt of gambling information. (1997 Code
§9.12.030)
6-5C-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Any person who performs any of the following in a public place or where
the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the public
commits public indecency:
      1.   An act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   A lewd exposure of an intimate part of the body, not including the
genitals, done with intent to arouse or to satisfy the sexual desire of any
person; or
      3.   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person.
   B.   "Intimate part" means the external genitalia or the perineum or the
anus or the buttocks or the pubes or the breast of any person. (Ord. 537, 10-5-
2015)
6-5C-3: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
A person commits indecent exposure if he or she exposes his or her genitals to
the view of any person under circumstances in which such conduct is likely to
cause affront or alarm to the other person. (Ord. 537, 10-5-2015)
6-5C-4: WINDOW PEEPING:
It is unlawful for any person to trespass upon the property owned or occupied
by another in the town for the purpose of looking or peeping into any window,
door, skylight or other opening in a house, room, building, or to loiter in a
public street, alley, parking lot or other public place for the purpose of
wrongfully observing the action of the occupants of such house, room or
building. (1997 Code §9.12.060)
6-5C-5: DISSEMINATION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   MATERIAL: Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation, sound or
in any other manner, but does not include an actual three-dimensional obscene
device.
   OBSCENE: Material or a performance that:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would
find that taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest in sex;
      2.   Depicts or describes:
         a.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including sexual
intercourse, sodomy and sexual bestiality; or
         b.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of the
genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal, or covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   OBSCENE DEVICE: A device including a dildo or artificial vagina, designed or
marketed as useful primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs.
   PATENTLY OFFENSIVE: So offensive on its face as to affront current community
standards of tolerance.
   PERFORMANCE: A play, motion picture, dance or other exhibition performed
before an audience.
   PROMOTE: To manufacture, issue, sell, give, provide, lend, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, present,
exhibit or advertise, or to offer or agree to do the same.
   PRURIENT INTEREST: A shameful or morbid interest.
   SIMULATED: The explicit depiction or description of any of the types of
conduct set forth under the definition of "obscene" set out in this subsection,
which creates the appearance of such conduct.
   WHOLESALE PROMOTE: To manufacture, issue, sell, provide, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, or to offer or
agree to do the same for purpose of resale.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful to disseminate obscene material within
the town limits, either wholesale or retail.
   C.   Severability: If any of the depictions or descriptions of sexual
conduct described in subsection A of this section are declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unlawfully included herein, this declaration shall
not invalidate this section as to other patently offensive sexual conduct
included herein. (1997 Code §9.12.070)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Theft Related Offenses; Concealment Of Goods
6-5D-2: Trespassing
6-5D-3: Injuring, Destroying Or Removing Property
6-5D-4: Deposits In Streets, Streams And Water Supply
6-5D-5: Littering On Public Property
6-5D-6: Truck Loads Causing Litter
6-5D-7: Lug Wheels Prohibited
6-5D-8: Throwing Advertisements On Public Ways, Grounds
6-5D-9: Obstructing Traffic
6-5D-10: Interfering With Use Of Streets Or Sidewalks
6-5D-11: Broken Glass, Dangerous Substances On Streets And Sidewalks
6-5D-1: THEFT RELATED OFFENSES; CONCEALMENT OF GOODS:
   A.   Theft:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft within the town. A
person commits theft when he or she knowingly obtains or exercises control over
anything of value of another without authorization or by threat or deception
when the value of the thing is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and:
         a.   Intends to deprive the other person permanently of the use or
benefit of the thing of value;
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value in such
manner as to deprive the other person permanently of its use or benefit;
         c.   Uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value, intending that
such use, concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person permanently
of its use and benefit; or
         d.   Demands any consideration to which he or she is not legally
entitled as a condition of restoring the thing of value to the other person.
      2.   For the purposes of this subsection A, a "thing of value" is that
"of another" if anyone other than the defendant has a possessory or proprietary
interest therein.
   B.   Theft Of Rental Property:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft of rental property
within the town. A person commits theft of rental property if he or she:
         a.   Having lawfully obtained possession for temporary use of the
personal property of another, which is available only for hire, fails to return
the same within ten (10) days after actual written notice has been given by or
on behalf of the lessor and actually received by the lessee. Such notice shall
not be given until after the expiration of the term of the original lease; and
         b.   The value of the property involved is less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
      2.   The provisions of this subsection B shall not apply to unlawful
occupancy of land or of a building.
      3.   For the purposes of this subsection B, "thing of value" is that "of
another" if anyone other than the defendant has a possessory or proprietary
interest therein.
   C.   Theft By Receiving: It is unlawful to commit theft by receiving within
the town. A person commits theft by receiving when he or she receives, retains,
loans money by pawn or pledge on, or disposes of anything of value of another,
knowing or believing that the thing of value has been stolen, and when he or
she intends to deprive the lawful owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the thing of value, where the value of such thing is less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   D.   Concealment Of Goods:
      1.   If any person wilfully conceals unpurchased goods, wares, or
merchandise owned or held by and offered or displayed for sale by any store or
other mercantile establishment, whether the concealment be on his or her own
person or otherwise and whether on or off the premises of said store or
mercantile establishment, such concealment constitutes prima facie evidence
that the person intended to commit the crime of theft.
      2.   If any person conceals upon his or her person or otherwise carries
away any unpurchased goods, wares or merchandise held or owned by any store or
mercantile establishment, the merchant or any employee thereof or any peace
officer, acting in good faith and upon probable cause based upon reasonable
grounds therefor, may detain and question such person in a reasonable manner
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the person is guilty of theft. Such
questioning of a person by a merchant, merchant's employee or peace officer
does not render the merchant, merchant's employee or peace officer civilly or
criminally liable of slander, false arrest, false imprisonment, malicious
prosecution or unlawful detention. (Ord. 538, 10-5-2015)
6-5D-2: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Taking Down Fences Or Gates: It is unlawful for any person to take down
any fence or let down any bars or to open any gate in or on the property of
another without the consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
   B.   Entering Upon Premises Of Another Without Permission: It is unlawful
for any person without legal privilege to enter or remain upon the premises of
another or to fail or refuse to remove himself from the premises when requested
to leave by the owner, occupant or person having lawful control thereof. (1997
Code §9.20.030)
6-5D-3: INJURING, DESTROYING OR REMOVING PROPERTY:
   A.   Public Property: It is unlawful for any person to either wilfully,
maliciously, wantonly, negligently or in any other manner injure or destroy
real property or improvements thereto, or movable or personal property, within
the town. (1997 Code §9.20.010)
   B.   Private Property: It is unlawful for any person to either wilfully,
maliciously or wantonly injure or destroy real property or improvements
thereto, or movable or personal property, belonging to any person, corporation,
partnership or association. (1997 Code §9.20.020)
   C.   Street Signs: It is unlawful for any person without proper
authorization to remove, deface, injure or destroy any street sign, or sign
erected or placed in or adjacent to any street indicating the name of such
street. (1997 Code §9.20.040)
   D.   Posters: It is unlawful for any person to either wilfully, maliciously,
wantonly, negligently, or in any other manner tear down, deface or cover up any
posted advertisement or bill of any person, firm or corporation when the same
is posted or put in harmony with the provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances of the town. (1997 Code §9.20.050)
6-5D-4: DEPOSITS IN STREETS, STREAMS AND WATER SUPPLY:
It is unlawful to throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or
deposited, any offal composed of animal or vegetable substance, or both, any
dead animal, excrement, garbage or other offensive matter whatever, upon any
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or public grounds. No person shall, in the
town, throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or deposited, anything
specified in any foregoing part of this section, or any other substance that
would tend to have a polluting effect, into the water of any stream, ditch,
pond, well, cistern, slough or other body of water, whether artificially or
naturally created, or so near any such place as to be liable to pollute the
water. (1997 Code §9.20.060)
6-5D-5: LITTERING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Throwing Trash: It is unlawful to throw or deposit in any street,
alley, sidewalk or public ground, in the town, any paper, old clothes, cloth of
any kind, boots, shoes, hats, leather, hair, grass, junk cars, straw or hay,
trash or any other thing, on public streets or alleys, except in public
receptacles and authorized private receptacles.
   B.   Throwing Litter From Vehicle: It is unlawful for any person, while a
driver or passenger in a vehicle, to throw or deposit litter upon any street or
other public place within the town, or upon private property. (1997 Code
§9.20.070)
6-5D-6: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
   A.   Litter Blowing From Vehicle: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle within the town unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded as
to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place.
   B.   Garbage Transport Vehicles: Every cart or vehicle used to transport
manure, garbage, swill or offal on any highway in the town shall be fitted with
a substantial tight box thereon, so that no portion of such filth will be
scattered or thrown onto such highway. (Ord. 539, 10-5-2015)
6-5D-7: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any vehicles injurious to pavement to be permitted upon
public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicles shall first plank and
protect such streets from damage. (1997 Code §9.20.090)
6-5D-8: THROWING ADVERTISEMENTS ON PUBLIC WAYS, GROUNDS:
It is unlawful for any person to throw any posters, dodgers, circulars, bills,
letters, envelopes, samples or devices upon any of the streets, alleys, parks
or other public grounds of the town. (1997 Code §9.20.100)
6-5D-9: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any sidewalk, public
highway, street or alley in the town, or for the purpose of annoyance or
mischief, to place in any doorway or driveway, or on any sidewalk, public
highway, street or alley in the town any box, barrel, cask or other thing.
(1997 Code §9.20.110)
6-5D-10: INTERFERING WITH USE OF STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person, alone or in a group or assemblage of persons,
whose standing, remaining or congregation on any public highway, street, alley
or sidewalk in the town to obstruct, interfere with or prevent the free and
unobstructed and reasonable use of that public highway, street, alley or
sidewalk by any other person, to fail or refuse to yield to the reasonable use
or passage of any other person on that public highway, street, alley or
sidewalk, or to fail or refuse to move on, disperse or cease such obstruction
or interference immediately upon being so ordered by any police officer of the
town or other authorized peace officer. (1997 Code §9.20.120)
6-5D-11: BROKEN GLASS, DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit or cause to be thrown or
deposited on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, any broken glass,
broken crockery, nails or any other dangerous substance. (1997 Code §9.20.130)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Sale Of Beer To Minors; Sign Posted
6-6-2: Minors In Places That Sell Alcoholic Beverages
6-6-3: Minors In Possession
6-6-4: False Statement And False Credentials
6-6-5: Purchase Of Prohibited Items By Others
6-6-6: Selling Liquor Near Schools
6-6-7: Loitering And Other Acts In Or About Schools
6-6-8: Curfew; Restrictive Hours; Exceptions
6-6-9: Parent Or Guardian Aiding, Abetting
6-6-10: Encouraging Delinquency
6-6-11: Illegal Possession Or Consumption Of Tobacco Products and Electronic
Smoking Devices By Underage Persons
6-6-12: Parents And Guardians Of Minors Responsible For Court Appearances And
Compliance With Orders Of Municipal Court
6-6-1: SALE OF BEER TO MINORS; SIGN POSTED:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give
away, dispose of, exchange or deliver, or permit the sale, serving, giving or
procuring of any fermented malt beverage (3.2 beer) to or for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Posting Of Sign: It is the duty of the person who is the proprietor or
keeper of a place of business which sells, serves or disposes of fermented malt
beverages (3.2 beer) to post conspicuously in his place of business the
following described sign: "MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE (21) YEARS NOT
SERVED HERE". Failure to so post such sign will constitute an unlawful act.
(1997 Code § 9.24.010)
6-6-2: MINORS IN PLACES THAT SELL ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person who is the provider or
keeper of any establishment whose primary business is the sale of alcoholic
beverages, or beer, or any other fermented malt beverages to employ or permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to frequent or be in or about
such place unless accompanied by a parent, or to drink any intoxicating liquors
or beer or any other fermented malt beverage in or about the same, or to engage
or participate in any game of billiards or any game, bet or wager with any
cards or any other gambling device or any other game whatsoever in or about
such place.
   B.   Posting Of Sign: It is the duty of any person who is the proprietor or
keeper of an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages to post
conspicuously in his place of business the following described sign: "MINORS
UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY ONE (21) YEARS NOT ALLOWED UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY
PARENT". Failure to so post such sign will constitute an unlawful act. (1997
Code § 9.24.020)
6-6-3: MINORS IN POSSESSION:
   A.   Possession Prohibited: Any person under twenty one (21) years of age
who possesses or consumes ethyl alcohol anywhere within the Town commits
illegal possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol by an underage person.
Illegal possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol by an underage person is a
strict liability offense. "Possession" of ethyl alcohol by an underage person
means that a minor has or holds any amount of ethyl alcohol anywhere on his
person, that a minor owns or has custody of ethyl alcohol, or that a minor has
ethyl alcohol within his immediate presence and control.
   B.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to the offenses
described in this section that the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed by a
person under twenty one (21) years of age under the following circumstances:
      1.   While such person was legally upon private property with the
knowledge and consent of the owner or legal possessor of such private property
and the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed with the consent of his parent
or legal guardian who was present during such possession or consumption.
      2.   When the existence of ethyl alcohol in a person's body was due
solely to the ingestion of a confectionery which contained ethyl alcohol within
the limits prescribed by Colorado Revised Statutes section 25-5-410(1)(i)(II);
medicines ingested solely for medicinal or hygienic purposes; or solely from
the ingestion of a beverage which contained less than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) of ethyl alcohol by weight.
      3.   The person is a student who:
         a.   Tastes but does not imbibe an alcohol beverage only while under
the direct supervision of an instructor who is at least twenty one (21) years
of age and employed by a postsecondary school;
         b.   Is enrolled in a university or a postsecondary school accredited
or certified by an agency recognized by the United States department of
education, a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or the
"private occupational education act of 1981", Colorado Revised Statutes title
12, article 59;
         c.   Is participating in a culinary arts, food service, or restaurant
management degree program; and
         d.   Tastes but does not imbibe the alcohol beverage for instructional
purposes as a part of a required course in which the alcohol beverage, except
the portion the student tastes, remains under the control of the instructor.
   C.   Religious Purposes: The possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol
shall not constitute a violation of this section if such possession or
consumption takes place for religious purposes protected by the first amendment
to the United States constitution.
   D.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Violation: Prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section shall consist of:
      1.   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty one (21)
years and possessed or consumed ethyl alcohol anywhere within the town; or
      2.   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty one (21)
years and manifested any of the characteristics commonly associated with ethyl
alcohol intoxication or impairment while present anywhere within the town.
   E.   Label As Evidence: During any trial for a violation of this section,
any bottle, can, or any other container with labeling indicating the contents
of such bottle, can, or container shall be admissible into evidence, and the
information contained on any label on such bottle, can, or other container
shall be admissible into evidence and shall not constitute hearsay. A judge or
jury may consider the information upon such label in determining whether the
contents of the bottle, can, or other container were composed in whole or in
part of ethyl alcohol. A label that identifies the contents of any bottle, can,
or other container as "beer", "ale", "malt beverage", "fermented malt
beverage", "malt liquor", "wine", "champagne", "whiskey" or "whisky", "gin",
"vodka", "tequila", "schnapps", "brandy", "cognac", "liqueur", "cordial",
"alcohol", or "liquor" shall constitute prima facie evidence that the contents
of the bottle, can, or other container was composed in whole or in part of
ethyl alcohol.
   F.   Alcohol Tests Admissible At Trial: The qualitative result of an alcohol
test or tests shall be admissible at the trial of any person charged with a
violation of this section upon a showing that the device or devices used to
conduct such test or tests have been approved as accurate in detecting alcohol
by the executive director of the Colorado department of public health and
environment (CDPHE).
   G.   Certification Records: Official records of the CDPHE relating to the
certification of breath test instruments, certification of operators and
operator instructors of breath test instruments, certification of standard
solutions, and certification of laboratories shall be official records of the
state. Copies of such records, attested by the executive director of the CDPHE
or his deputy and accompanied by a certificate bearing the official seal for
the CDPHE, that state that the executive director of the CDPHE has custody of
such records, shall be admissible in the municipal court and shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the information contained in the records. The official
seal of the CDPHE may consist of a rubber stamp or an image producing a
facsimile of the seal stamped upon the document.
   H.   Accuracy Of Testing Devices: In any proceeding in the municipal court
concerning a violation of this section, the court shall take judicial notice of
methods of testing a person's blood, breath, saliva, or urine for the presence
of alcohol and of the design and operation of devices certified by the CDPHE
for testing a person's blood, breath, saliva, or urine for the presence of
alcohol. This provision shall not prevent the necessity of establishing during
a trial that the testing devices were working properly and that the testing
devices were properly operated. Nothing shall preclude a defendant from
offering evidence concerning the accuracy of testing devices.
   I.   Parental Consent Allowed; Establishment Prohibited: A parent or legal
guardian of a person under twenty one (21) years of age or any natural person
who has the permission of such parent or legal guardian may give or permit the
possession and consumption of ethyl alcohol to or by a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years under the conditions described in subsection B1 of this
section. This shall not be construed to permit any establishment which is or is
required to be licensed pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes title 12,
articles 46, 47 or 48, or any members, employees, or occupants of any such
establishment to give, provide, make available, or sell ethyl alcohol to a
person under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 493, 9-1-2009)
6-6-4: FALSE STATEMENT AND FALSE CREDENTIALS:
It is unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to make false
statements or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card, or note or other document for any
unlawful purpose, or to furnish, present or exhibit such document or documents
issued to a person other than the one presenting the same for the purpose of
gaining admission to prohibited places or for the purpose of procuring the
sale, gift or delivery of prohibited articles, including beer, liquor, wine or
fermented malt beverages (3.2 beer). (1997 Code § 9.24.040)
6-6-5: PURCHASE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS BY OTHERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
engage or utilize the services of any other person, whether for remuneration or
not, to procure any article which the minor himself is forbidden by law to
purchase.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, whether for remuneration or not, to
procure for any person under twenty one (21) years of age any article which the
person is forbidden by law to purchase. (1997 Code § 9.24.050)
6-6-6: SELLING LIQUOR NEAR SCHOOLS:
It is unlawful to sell, offer or expose for sale or gift, beer, or any vinous,
spirituous or malt liquors within a distance of five hundred feet (500') from
any private, public or parochial school, said distance to be computed by direct
measurement from the nearest property lines; provided, however that this
prohibition shall not affect the rights of any person, firm or corporation now
holding a lawful permit or license to conduct such business within the
restricted area established nor shall this prohibition prevent the renewal upon
the expiration thereof of any license in effect at this time authorizing such
business within the restricted area established by this section. (1997 Code §
9.24.060)
6-6-7: LOITERING AND OTHER ACTS IN OR ABOUT SCHOOLS:
It is unlawful for any person to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in,
about or on any public, private or parochial school, college or seminary
grounds, or buildings, either on foot or in or on any vehicle, without having
some lawful business therein or thereabout, or in connection with such school
or the employees thereof; or for any person to:
   A.   Annoy, disturb or otherwise prevent the orderly conduct of classes and
activities of such school.
   B.   Annoy, disturb, assault or molest any student or employee of any such
school, college or seminary while in any such school building or on any school
grounds.
   C.   Conduct himself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech or
behavior in or about any school building or school grounds.
   D.   Park or move a vehicle in the immediate vicinity of, or on the grounds
of, any such school, college or seminary for the purpose of annoying or
molesting the students or employees thereof; or in an effort to induce, entice
or invite students into such vehicles for immoral purposes. (1997 Code §
9.24.070)
6-6-8: CURFEW; RESTRICTIVE HOURS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Parents' Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having care or custody of any child under the age of eighteen (18)
years to allow or permit any such child to be or remain upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley or public park within the town between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. unless the child is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of the minor; or when the minor is upon an emergency errand
directed by his parent or guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor; or when the minor is returning directly home from a
meeting, entertainment, recreational activity or dance. (1997 Code § 9.24.080)
   B.   Child's Responsibility: It is unlawful for any child under the age of
eighteen (18) years to be or remain on any public street, sidewalk, alley or
public park within the Town between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless the child is accompanied by the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor; or when the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent or
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor; or
when the minor is returning directly home from a meeting, entertainment,
recreational activity, or dance. (1997 Code § 9.24.090)
6-6-9: PARENT OR GUARDIAN AIDING, ABETTING:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any minor child or children
to aid, abet or encourage in or to approve, encourage, allow, permit, tolerate
or consent to the violation by any minor child or children of any provision of
this chapter or any ordinances of the Town. (1997 Code § 9.24.100)
6-6-10: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
It is unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid or
cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities, and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver's license
of any child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to operate a
motor vehicle during the period that such driver's license is suspended. (1997
Code § 9.24.110)
6-6-11: ILLEGAL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ELECTRONIC
SMOKING DEVICES BY UNDERAGE PERSONS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to possess
or consume tobacco products and to possess or use any Electronic Smoking
Devices within the Town of Akron.
 
                           Any device that when activated emits a vapor,
                           aerosol, or smoke or can be used to deliver nicotine
                           or any other substance to the person inhaling from
                           the device, including, but not limited to e-
                           cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, e-hookahs,
                           inhalant delivery systems or any other similar
ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: product by any other name or descriptor. An
                           electronic smoking device includesany component,
                           part or accessory of such device whether or not sold
                           separately, regardless of nicotine content or any
                           other substance intended to be vaporized or
                           aerosolized for human inhalation during the use of
                           the device.
                           Any product containing, made, or derived from
                           tobacco or synthetic tobacco whether or not said
                           product contains nicotine that is intended for human
                           consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
TOBACCO PRODUCT:           absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or
                           ingested by any other means, including, but not
                           limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars,
                           chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, as well as any
                           Electronic Smoking Device. (Ord. 556, 4-1-2019)
 
6-6-12: PARENTS AND GUARDIANS OF MINORS RESPONSIBLE FOR COURT APPEARANCES AND
COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS OF MUNICIPAL COURT:
   A.   When a summons, complaint or other Municipal Court order of any type is
issued to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, then notice of the
issuance of the summons, complaint or other order shall be provided to the
parent or guardian of the minor by personal service or by mailing a notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten (10) days prior to the
scheduled court appearance. The notice shall include the alleged violation,
date of violation and the date, time and place of the scheduled court
appearance, and shall provide notice that the parent or guardian is required to
appear in Municipal Court on the specified date and time with the minor. The
parent or guardian of any minor who is required to appear in Municipal Court
shall have the duty to make sure and see to it that the minor appears as
ordered and it shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to fail to appear
at each and every court appearance with the minor. The Municipal Judge, in
addition to any other penalty, may issue a warrant for the arrest of any
parent, guardian or minor who fails to appear as provided herein or may find
the parent or guardian guilty of contempt of court, if notice has been given to
the parent or guardian by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   B.   When a minor, as a result of the violation of any section of this Code,
is sentenced or otherwise ordered by the Municipal Judge to pay a fine, court
costs, restitution or any other fee or cost, is sentenced or otherwise ordered
to perform useful public service (UPS), attend counseling, attend classes or
perform any other action, then the parent or guardian of the minor shall be
jointly responsible for payment of any amounts ordered to be paid and shall
have a duty to make sure and see to it that the minor defendant performs any
ordered UPS or other action, and the failure of any parent or guardian to make
sure and see to it that the minor defendant complies with any order of the
Municipal Court shall be a separate offense for which a summons and complaint
may be issued, or which may be punishable as contempt of court.
   C.   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any parent or
guardian who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Municipal Judge that the
minor defendant is emancipated, which shall mean any minor who is over the age
of sixteen (16) and under the age of eighteen (18) years old and who does not
reside with the parent or guardian and who is solely responsible for his or her
own support, or who is married or who is in the military service of the United
States. (Ord. 551, 5-7-2018)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-7-1: Ownership Presumed
6-7-2: Keeping Of Certain Animals Prohibited
6-7-3: Fowl And Rabbits Restrained
6-7-3-5: Fowl And Rabbits Limitations
6-7-4: Premises Kept Clean
6-7-5: Disposal Of Pet Solid Waste
6-7-6: Running At Large; Confinement; Costs
6-7-7: Sale Of Animals; Procedure
6-7-8: Grazing Upon Public Thoroughfares
6-7-9: Hitching Animals To Public And Private Property
6-7-10: Cruelty To Animals
6-7-11: Abandonment Of Animals
6-7-12: Keeping Place For Fighting Animals
6-7-13: Supply Of Food To Enclosed Animals
6-7-14: Poisoning Domesticated Animals
6-7-15: Treatment Of Song And Insectivorous Birds
6-7-16: Special Use Permit
6-7-1: OWNERSHIP PRESUMED:
Any animal or other pet residing in a household comprised of adult(s) and
minors shall be presumed to be in the ownership or possession of the adult(s)
having control of the premises of that household. (1997 Code § 6.04.010)
6-7-2: KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Certain Animals Prohibited; Exceptions: It is unlawful to keep, harbor,
own or in any way possess, within the corporate limits of the town, the
following:
      1.   Any warm blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous wild or exotic animal,
including, but not limited to, nonhuman primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes, and
wild and exotic cats, but excluding fowl, ferrets and small rodents used for
laboratory purposes.
      2.   Any animal, insect or snake having poisonous bites or stings.
      3.   Any snake. (1997 Code § 6.04.020)
   B.   Hogs, Sheep And Goats Prohibited; Exception: Except as provided in
ranchette zoning areas (title 11, chapter 5, article G of this code), it is
unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the corporate limits of the
town any hogs, pigs, swine, sheep or goats. (Ord. 541, 11-2-2015)
   C.   Cattle And Horses Prohibited In Certain Area: It is unlawful for any
person to herd or harbor any cattle, horses or other livestock within the
territory in the town as herein described:
Beginning at a point along the west line of the limits of the Town of Akron,
which is due west of the north line of Block Eight of the Hueske Addition to
the Town of Akron, running thence east to the northeast corner of Block Nine of
the Hueske Addition, thence south to Eighth Street, thence east along Eighth
Street to Elm Street, thence south to Fourth Street, thence east to the town
limits, thence south to the town limits, thence west along the north side of
the right of way of the Burlington Northern Railroad to the intersection of
Custer Street and North Railway Street, thence north along Custer Street to
Fourth Street, thence west along Fourth Street to the town limits, thence north
along the west town limits to the point of beginning.
(1997 Code § 6.04.020)
6-7-3: FOWL AND RABBITS RESTRAINED:
It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps within the corporate
limits any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, or any hare
or rabbits, to fail to keep the same securely enclosed in a pen or building, or
to permit the same to run at large or to go upon the premises of another. (1997
Code § 6.04.030)
6-7-3-5: FOWL AND RABBITS LIMITATIONS:
Except as provided in ranchette zoning areas (title 11, chapter 5, article G of
this code) and industrial district zoning areas (title 11, chapter 5, article F
of this code), no person shall keep, in aggregate, more than twenty (20)
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, or any hare or rabbits.
Roosters shall not be permitted within the town of Akron. (Ord. 543, 9-6-2016)
6-7-4: PREMISES KEPT CLEAN:
Any person who owns or controls any lot, barn, stable, shed, building or other
place where domestic fowl or animals are kept shall keep the building and
premises in a clean and sanitary condition and shall remove all manure from the
premises at least once each week. (1997 Code § 6.04.040)
6-7-5: DISPOSAL OF PET SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Purpose: This section establishes requirements for the proper disposal
of pet solid waste within the town so as to protect public health, safety and
welfare, and to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
    IMMEDIATE: That the pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
   OWNER/KEEPER: Any person who shall possess, maintain, have control of,
house, or harbor any pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether such
person is the registered owner of such pet.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association, or political subdivision subject to the municipal jurisdiction of
the town of Akron, Colorado.
   PET: A domesticated animal, including a disability assistance animal, kept
for amusement, assistance, or companionship.
   PET SOLID WASTE: Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet, i.e.,
excrement.
   PROPER DISPOSAL: Placement in a designated waste receptacle or other
suitable container and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the town of Akron, Colorado, or some other refuse collector or
disposal into a system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment
and disposal.
   C.   Disposal Required: All pet owners and keepers are required to
immediately and properly dispose of their pet's solid waste deposited on any
property, public or private, including, but not limited to, public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks, or any other public or private grounds within the
town not owned or possessed by that person.
   D.   Disability Assistance Animals: Any owner or keeper who requires the use
of a disability assistance animal shall also comply with the provisions of this
section while such animal is being used for that purpose.
   E.   Penalty: Any person who is found to be in violation of the provisions
of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00)
for the first violation and not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
subsequent violations within any calendar year. (Ord. 501, 6-6-2011)
6-7-6: RUNNING AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT; COSTS:
   A.   Owner Or Possessor Responsibility: It is unlawful for any owner and/or
possessor of any animal to suffer or permit such animal to be at large as
defined in this section. Violations of this section are subject to citation,
and the animal at large is subject to impoundment as authorized by this
section.
   B.   Animals Other Than Dogs:
      1.   Animals, other than dogs, shall be considered at large if an animal
is off the premises of its owner and/or possessor while not under the physical
restraint of a person capable of controlling the animal. This includes any
animal which is tethered, leashed or otherwise present on property which is not
owned or controlled by the owner and/or possessor of the animal without the
permission of the owner or occupant thereof.
      2.   An animal shall not be considered at large if it is on the premises
of another person with the consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
   C.   Confinement By Police; Payment Of Costs: If any animal shall be found
running at large contrary to the provisions of this section, it is made the
duty of the chief of police to take up and confine the same in a secure place
or other place provided for that purpose and such animal taken up and confined
shall not be released until the owner or person entitled to the possession
thereof shall pay to the officer having such animals in his keeping such fees
as are determined by the board of trustees by resolution for the taking up of
such animal together with a daily fee for the care of the animal for each and
every day such animal shall be kept by the officer aforesaid unless otherwise
provided in this code and the same shall be turned in to the town treasurer.
(Ord. 526, 8-3-2015)
6-7-7: SALE OF ANIMALS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Nonpayment Of Charges; Notice Of Sale; Redemption Of Animal:
      1.   If the owner or person entitled to the possession of an animal does
not pay the charges and take it away within five (5) days from the time it is
taken into custody, the chief of police may sell such animal at public auction
after having given at least five (5) days' notice of the time and place of such
sale by publishing or by posting the notice in five (5) public places in the
town as well as serving a copy of the notice upon the owner or possessor of the
animal, if known.
      2.   Such animal may be redeemed at any time before the date of sale by
payment to the officer in charge or his assistant of any fees, expenses and
charges herein provided.
   B.   Disposition Of Money From Sale: In case an animal sold pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter is sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees
and charges aforesaid, such expenses shall, by the officer or his assistant
making the sale, be deposited with the town clerk, who shall pay such excess,
upon order of the board of trustees to the owner of such animal or animals or
to the person entitled to the possession of the same upon claim and proper
proof within one year from date of the sale.
   C.   Disposal Of Infected Animal: In the event such animal is infected or
cannot be sold, it may be disposed of in the manner provided for unclaimed or
infected dogs. (1997 Code § 6.04.070)
6-7-8: GRAZING UPON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES:
It is unlawful for any person to picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle or
other livestock on or along any street, sidewalk or alley in the town in such a
manner that any such animal may graze upon the grass, herbage, or trees growing
upon or along any of the streets, sidewalks or alleys; for any person to
picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle or other livestock in such a manner as
to obstruct or impede the full use of the streets, sidewalks or alleys. (1997
Code § 6.04.080)
6-7-9: HITCHING ANIMALS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It is unlawful for any person to hitch a horse or any other animal to any
ornamental fence or railing, tree or bush, whether private or public, without
the permission of the owner thereof. It is unlawful for any person to hitch any
such animal to any lamppost or fire hydrant of the town. (1997 Code § 6.04.090)
6-7-10: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Maltreatment: It is unlawful for any person to unnecessarily beat,
injure or maltreat any animal. (1997 Code § 6.04.050)
   B.   Cruelty: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork, torture, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or kill needlessly or to carry or
transport in any vehicle or otherwise in a cruel and inhuman manner, any animal
or to cause any of these acts to be done. (1997 Code § 9.28.010)
   C.   Starvation: It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation having
charge or custody of any animal to fail to provide it with proper food, drink
and protection from weather, or to cause any of these acts to be done. (1997
Code § 9.28.020)
6-7-11: ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to abandon any animal, or to
cause such to be done. (1997 Code § 9.28.030)
6-7-12: KEEPING PLACE FOR FIGHTING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or cause to be kept
any place where any fowl or any animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition,
or for sport upon any wager. (1997 Code § 9.28.040)
6-7-13: SUPPLY OF FOOD TO ENCLOSED ANIMALS:
In case any animal shall be at any time enclosed or confined and shall continue
to be without necessary food or water more than twelve (12) consecutive hours,
it shall be lawful for any person, from time to time and as often as it shall
be necessary, to enter into or upon any such enclosure in which any such animal
shall be confined and supply it with necessary food and water so long as it
shall remain so confined. Such person shall not be liable to any action for
such entry, and the reasonable cost of such feed and water may be collected by
him from the owner of such animal. (1997 Code § 9.28.050)
6-7-14: POISONING DOMESTICATED ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to poison any dog or to distribute poison in any
manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning any
domesticated animals. (1997 Code § 9.28.060)
6-7-15: TREATMENT OF SONG AND INSECTIVOROUS BIRDS:
It is unlawful for any person at any time within the corporate limits of the
town to frighten, shoot at, wound, kill, take, capture, ensnare, net trap or in
any other manner molest or injure any robin, lark, whippoorwill, finch,
sparrow, thrush, wren, martin swallow, snowbird, bobolink, red winged
blackbird, crow, raven, oriole, kingbird, mockingbird, song sparrow, or other
songbird or insectivorous bird; or in any manner molest or injure the nest eggs
of young of any such bird, or have in possession the nest, eggs, young or body
of such bird. (1997 Code § 9.28.070)
6-7-16: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   An individual desiring to keep, harbor, or possess animals prohibited
under this Chapter 7 of Article 6 of the Akron Municipal Code, or desiring to
keep, harbor, or possess animals in excess of the numbers allowed under this
Chapter 7 of Article 6 of the Akron Municipal Code may apply to the Board of
Trustees for a Special Use Permit the possession of such animals within the
Town of Akron.
   B.   Such individual shall submit an Application for Special Use Permit on
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and pay a non-refundable
application fee in the amount the Board of Trustees may determine from time to
time. The Application for Special Use Permit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The applicant's name, address, and contact information.
      2.   The address at which the animals will be kept.
      3.   The number of and type of animals for which the applicant is seeking
a special use permit. The applicant shall provide a reasonably sufficient
description of each animal, including breed, age, name, and whether such animal
has been spayed or neutered.
      4.   A description of the premises at which the animals will be stored,
including the nature of any fencing or enclosures, and whether the animals will
be kept indoors or outdoors.
      5.   The applicant must provide a copy of the completed Application for
Special Use Permit to all neighbors located within 300 feet of the location at
which the animals will be kept within seven days of filing the Application for
Special Use Permit with the Town of Akron.
   C.   If approved by the Board of Trustees in accordance with this section
applicants may be permitted to keep, harbor, or possess up to five (5) Animal
Units on a minimum of two (2) contiguous acres of property. In no event shall
the Board of Trustees grant a Special Use Permit authorizing keeping,
harboring, or maintaining greater than five (5) Animals Units at any property.
Animal Units shall be defined as follows:
TYPE ANIMAL UNITS
TYPE                                      ANIMAL UNITS
Cattle
   Any age                             1.00
Equine
   Horse                               1.00
   Donkey                              0.66
   Miniature Horse                     0.33
Sheep
   Any age                             0.33
Goats
   All breads and ages                 0.33
Swine
   Hog                                 0.33
Elk
   Any age                             1.00
Buffalo
   Any age                             1.33
Llamas and Alpacas
   Any age                             0.50
Fowl, Game Birds, Other Small Animals
   Ostriches, emus, rheas              0.50
   Rabbits                             0.10
   Mature Chickens, Turkeys, Geese, Duc0.10
 
   D.   No permit shall be issued hereunder for any Residentially or Ranchette-
zoned property unless the applicant demonstrates that the keeping, harboring,
or possessing of animals on such property will be secondary or incidental to an
   allowed primary use for such property.
   E.   The Board of Trustees shall have the sole and exclusive discretion to
grant or deny any Special Use Permit sought under this provision. The Board of
Trustees shall also have the sole and exclusive discretion to revoke any
Special Use Permit issued hereunder.
   F.   Persons who have obtained current Special Use Permit in accordance with
this section shall not be in violation of the general provisions of this
chapter prohibiting the animals authorized by the Special Use Permit. (Ord.
558, 5-6-2019; amd. Ord. 561, 10-7-2019)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-7A-1: Definitions
6-7A-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees
6-7A-3: License Tag Requirements
6-7A-4: Rabies Vaccination Required
6-7A-5: Unlawful Ownership Of Dangerous Dog
6-7A-6: Declaration As Dangerous Dog (Rep. by Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)
6-7A-7: Running At Large; Confinement
6-7A-8: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal
6-7A-9: Interference With Dogcatcher Or Police Officer
6-7A-10: Instigating Or Encouraging Dogfights
6-7A-11: Confinement Or Muzzling Of Dogs During Rabies Danger
6-7A-12: Barking, Howling And Noisemaking
6-7A-13: Female Dogs In Heat
6-7A-14: Notice Or Knowledge Of Violation; Prosecution
6-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise threaten the safety of human
beings or domestic animals; any dog that, without provocation, attacks or
bites, or has attacked or bitten, a human being or domestic animal; any dog
owned or harbored primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dogfighting or any
dog trained for dogfighting; or any dog which has been found to be dangerous by
the municipal court or found by any other court of competent jurisdiction to be
dangerous.
   B.   "Dangerous dog" also means any dog which, because of its aggressive
nature, training, or characteristic behavior, is capable of inflicting serious
physical harm or death to humans, and which would constitute a danger to human
life or property if it were not properly kept; or any dog which, when
unprovoked, chases or approaches a human being or domestic animal in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack on public or private property.
DOG: Any dog, bitch or whelp over the age of three (3) months.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or other entity possessing,
harboring, or having the care or custody, whether temporarily or permanently,
of a dog.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that, when unprovoked: a) inflicts bites on
a human or a domestic animal on either public or private property; b) chases or
approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or c) has any known
propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked or cause injury or
otherwise threaten the safety of humans or domestic animals.
UNCONFINED: A dangerous dog is "unconfined" if such dog is not securely
confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed or locked pen or structure
upon the premises of the owner of such dog. Such pen or structure must have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground no less than one foot (1').
(1997 Code §6.08.010; amd. Ord. 509, 5-6-2013)
6-7A-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required: The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog within the
town shall secure a license for such dog from the town clerk within the later
of thirty (30) days after the dog reaches the age of three (3) months or thirty
(30) days after becoming such residents to secure a required license hereunder.
(1997 Code § 6.08.020)
   B.   Fees And Term: The license fees for dogs within the town shall be
determined from time to time by the board of trustees by resolution, payable
for the issuance of such license, which license shall be valid for the
effective period of the rabies vaccination required below. No household shall
keep or maintain more than three (3) dogs.
   C.   Application; Rabies Vaccination Required: Upon application for a dog
license, the applicant shall exhibit to the town clerk a certificate from a
licensed veterinarian that the dog has been inoculated against rabies as
required by this section. All applications for licenses shall be made on forms
provided by the town clerk. (1997 Code § 6.08.060; amd. Ord. 540, 11-2-2015;
Ord. 570, 1-4-2021)
6-7A-3: LICENSE TAG REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Issuance: It shall be the duty of the town clerk to deliver or cause to
be delivered to each person making application for a license, paying the
license fee provided for in this article and presenting the certificate of
inoculation required by this article a dog tag for each dog licensed and
inoculated. (1997 Code §6.08.070)
   B.   Possession: Only those persons who own, possess or keep a dog duly
licensed and inoculated in accordance with the provisions of this article shall
be permitted to possess a dog tag as herein provided for. (1997 Code §6.08.080)
   C.   Description: The dog tag provided for in this article shall be of such
size, shape, color and materials as may be deemed expedient and suitable by the
town clerk; provided, however, that the color thereof shall be changed each
year. Such tag shall contain a number stamped thereon in numerical order
beginning with number one and shall also indicate the year for which the same
is issued and the word "Akron". (1997 Code §6.08.090)
   D.   Attachment To Collar Or Harness: Every owner, possessor or keeper of a
dog within the town shall place upon such dog a collar or harness made of
durable material to which the dog tag herein provided for shall be attached.
(1997 Code §6.08.100)
   E.   Worn Only By Licensed Dog: No person shall affix to the collar or
harness of any dog or permit to remain so affixed a tag evidencing licensing
and rabies inoculation except the dog tag issued to that dog at the time of
issuance of its license. (1997 Code §6.08.110)
   F.   Records, Duplicates And Transfers: The town clerk shall keep a record
of the date of issue of each dog tag provided for in this article and the
person to whom such tag is issued and the number thereof. If the dog tag herein
provided for is lost or destroyed, a duplicate tag may be obtained from the
town clerk upon the payment fee of fifty cents ($0.50). In the event that the
ownership or possession of a dog is changed, a new dog tag must be obtained and
such new dog tag shall be issued by the town clerk upon proof being presented
that the inoculation and licensing requirements of this section have been
complied with and upon the payment of the fee of fifty cents ($0.50). (1997
Code §6.08.120)
6-7A-4: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Time For Inoculation: The owner, possessor or keeper of every dog
within the town shall have such dog inoculated against rabies between January 1
and March 1 of each year. Dogs purchased, obtained or otherwise acquired or
brought into the town subsequent to March 1 in any calendar year shall be
inoculated within thirty (30) days after such acquisition or being brought into
the town.
   B.   Inoculation By Veterinarian: The inoculation required by the preceding
subsection shall be made by any veterinarian licensed to practice veterinarian
medicine in this state. (1997 Code §6.08.050)
6-7A-5: UNLAWFUL OWNERSHIP OF DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Violation of this section is subject to the penalties set forth in
section
1-4-1 and as set forth in this section. As used in this section, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      1.   “Bodily injury” means any physical injury that results in severe
bruising, muscle tears, or skin lacerations requiring professional medical
treatment or any physical injury that requires corrective or cosmetic surgery.
      2.   “Dangerous dog” means any dog that:
         a.   Inflicts bodily or serious bodily injury upon or causes the death
of a person or domestic animal;
         b.   Demonstrates tendencies that would cause a reasonable person to
believe that the dog may inflict bodily or serious bodily injury upon or cause
the death of any person or domestic animal; or
         c.   Engages in or is trained for animal fighting as described and
prohibited in C.R.S. 18-9-204.
      3.   “Dog” means any domesticated animal related to the fox, wolf,
coyote, or jackal.
      4.   “Domestic animal” means any dog, cat, or livestock.
      5.   “Owner” or “owns” means any person, firm, corporation, or
organization owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having financial or
property interest in, or having control or custody of a domestic animal, as the
term is defined in subsection (A)(4), including a dangerous dog as the term is
defined in subsection (A)(2).
      6.   “Serious bodily injury” has the same meaning as such term is defined
in C.R.S. 18-1-901(3)(p).
   B.   Violations:
      1.   A person commits ownership of a dangerous dog if such person owns,
possesses, harbors, keeps, has a financial or property interest in, or has
custody or control over a dangerous dog.
      2.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog inflicts bodily
injury upon any person commits an offense against this section.
      3.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog inflicts serious
bodily injury to a person commits an offense against this section.
      4.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog causes the death
of a person commits an offense against this section.
      5.   Any owner who violates subsection (B)(1) whose dog injures or
destroys any domestic animal commits an offense against this section.
      6.   The court shall order any owner of a dangerous dog who has been
convicted of a violation of this section to:
         a.   Confine the dangerous dog in a building or enclosure designed to
be escape-proof and, whenever the dog is outside of the building or enclosure,
keep the dog under the owner’s control by use of a leash. The owner shall post
a conspicuous warning sign on the building or enclosure notifying others that a
dangerous dog is housed in the building or enclosure. The owner shall obtain an
insurance policy with a minimum liability amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) covering the dangerous dog. In addition, if the
conviction is for a second or subsequent offense, the dangerous dog shall also
be muzzled whenever it is outside of the building or enclosure.
         b.   Immediately report to an animal control officer in writing any
material change in the dangerous dog’s situation, including but not limited to
a change, transfer, or termination of ownership, change of address, escape, or
death.
         c.   At the owner’s expense, permanently identify the dangerous dog
through the implantation of a microchip by a licensed veterinarian or a
licensed shelter. A veterinarian or licensed shelter that implants a microchip
in a dangerous dog shall report the microchipping information to an animal
control officer, in writing, within ten (10) days after implantation of the
microchip.
         d.   Prior to the implantation of the microchip, pay a nonrefundable
dangerous dog microchip license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the Town.
         e.   Prior to the dangerous dog receiving any service or treatment,
disclose in writing to any provider of the service or treatment, including but
not limited to a veterinary health care worker, dog groomer, humane agency
staff person, pet animal care facility staff person, professional dog handler,
or dog trainer, each acting in the performance of his or her respective duties,
that the dangerous dog has been the subject of a conviction of a violation of
this section.
         f.   Prior to a change, transfer, or termination of ownership of a
dangerous dog, disclose in writing to the prospective owner that the dangerous
dog has been the subject of a conviction of a violation of this section.
      7.   In addition to any other penalty, upon an owner’s entry of a guilty
plea or the return of a verdict of guilty by a judge or jury or a deferred
judgment or deferred prosecution for a violation that results in serious bodily
injury to a person or death to a person or domestic animal or for a second or
subsequent violation of subsections (B)(2) or (B)(5) resulting in a conviction
or a deferred judgment or a deferred prosecution involving the same dog of the
same owner, the court shall order that the dangerous dog be immediately
confiscated and placed in a public animal shelter and shall order that, upon
exhaustion of any right an owner has to appeal a conviction based on a
violation of this subsection (B), the owner’s dangerous dog be destroyed by
lethal injection administered by a licensed veterinarian.
      8.   In addition to any other penalty, for a second or subsequent
violation of subsection (B)(2) or (B)(5) resulting in a conviction or a
deferred judgment or a deferred prosecution involving the same dog of a
different owner, the court may order that the dangerous dog be immediately
confiscated and placed in a public animal shelter and that, upon exhaustion of
any right an owner has to appeal a conviction based on a violation of this
subsection (B), the owner’s dangerous dog be destroyed by lethal injection
administered by a licensed veterinarian.
      9.
         a.   An affirmative defense to the violation of this subsection (B)
shall be:
            (1)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog which
causes injury to or the death of a domestic animal, the domestic animal was at
large, was an astray, and entered upon the property of the owner and the attack
began, but did not necessarily end, upon such property.
            (2)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog which
causes injury to or the death of a domestic animal, said animal was biting or
otherwise attacking the dangerous dog or its owner.
            (3)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog which
causes injury to or the death of a person, the victim of the attack was
committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense, other than a petty
offense, against the dog’s owner, and the attack did not occur on the owner’s
property.
            (4)   That, at the time of the attack by the dangerous dog which
causes injury to or the death of a person, the victim of the attack was
committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense, other than a petty
offense, against a person on the owner’s property or the property itself and
the attack began, but did not necessarily end, upon such property; or
            (5)   That the person who was the victim of the attack by the
dangerous dog tormented, provoked, abused, or inflicted injury upon the dog in
such an extreme manner which resulted in the attack.
         b.   The affirmative defenses set forth in subparagraph (9)(a). shall
not apply to any dog that has engaged in or been trained for animal fighting as
said term is described in C.R.S. 18-9-204.
         c.   Upon taking an owner into custody for an alleged violation of
this section or the issuing of a summons and complaint to the owner, the
owner’s dangerous dog may be taken into custody and placed in a public animal
shelter, at the owner’s expense, pending final disposition of the charge
against the owner. In addition, in the event the court sets bail for an owner’s
release from custody pending final disposition, the court may require, as a
condition of bond, that the owner’s dangerous dog be placed by an animal
control officer, at the owner’s expense, in a location selected by the animal
control officer, including a public animal shelter, licensed boarding facility,
or veterinarian’s clinic, pending final disposition of the alleged violation of
this section. The owner shall be liable for the total cost of board and care
for a dog placed pursuant to this subsection c.
         d.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
            (1)   To any dog that is used by a peace officer while the officer
is engaged in the performance of peace officer duties;
            (2)   To any dog that inflicts bodily or serious bodily injury to
any veterinary health care worker, dog groomer, humane agency personnel,
professional dog handler, or trainer each acting in the performance of his or
her respective duties, unless the owner is subject to a court order issued
pursuant to subsection (B)(6) of this section and the owner has failed to
comply with the provisions of subsection (B)(6)e.; or
            (3)   To any dog that inflicts injury upon or causes the death of a
domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or
predator control dog on the property of or under the control of the dog’s owner
and the injury or death was to a domestic animal naturally associated with the
work of such dog.
         e.   If impoundment of a dangerous dog running at large cannot be made
with safety to the animal control officer or other persons, the dog may be
destroyed by authorized police officials without notice to the owner or
harborer. (Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)
6-7A-6: DECLARATION AS DANGEROUS DOG:
(Rep. by Ord. 567, 6-1-2020)
6-7A-7: RUNNING AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT:
It is unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any dog in the town to
permit the same to run at large within the town. A dog shall be deemed to be
running at large when off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or
keeper thereof and not under the control of such owner, possessor or keeper or
his agent or servant or a member of his immediate family, either by leash, cord
or chain, not more than ten feet (10') in length. (1997 Code §6.08.240)
6-7A-8: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Impoundment Generally:
      1.   It shall be lawful for the dogcatcher and all police officers to
impound any dog which is not wearing a dog tag as herein provided and any dog
which they reasonably feel to be in violation of any of the provisions of this
article, whether such dog is wearing a dog tag or not.
      2.   It shall be lawful for the dogcatcher or any police officer to go
upon private property for the purpose of catching any dog to be impounded.
(1997 Code §6.08.130)
   B.   Establishment And Operation Of Pound: The town administrator shall have
the right to establish a dog pound for the town to be operated by town
personnel, or at his election, he may, subject to the approval of the board,
contract with a public or private person or organization for the operation of a
dog pound for and on behalf of the town. (1997 Code §6.08.140)
   C.   Filing Of Complaint:
      1.   If a dog is impounded, it shall be the duty of the dogcatcher or any
police officer to immediately institute proceedings in the municipal court on
behalf of the town against the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog if known,
charging the owner, possessor or keeper with a violation of the appropriate
section of this article.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing the
dogcatcher, any police officer or any citizen from instituting a proceeding in
the municipal court in the town for violation of this article where there is no
impoundment. (1997 Code §6.08.150)
   D.   Impoundment Notice:
      1.   As soon as practicable after the date of impoundment, the dogcatcher
shall notify the owner of the dog, if he can be ascertained, in the most
expeditious manner, but shall also send by regular mail a written notice of
such impoundment to the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog if the address
of such person be known; if the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog is not
known or if his address cannot be determined, the dogcatcher shall cause to be
posted in a conspicuous place in the town for five (5) consecutive days a
notice of impoundment.
      2.   Whether the notice herein provided be mailed or posted, it shall
describe the dog, set forth the date of impoundment and set forth the location
from which the dog was taken up. (1997 Code §6.08.160)
   E.   Procedure For Release; Order For Destruction:
      1.   If complaint has been filed in the municipal court of the town
against the owner, possessor or keeper of any impounded dog for a violation of
this article, then such dog shall not be released from impoundment except on
order from a municipal judge.
      2.   In addition to any penalties which may be provided for in this code
for a violation of this article, the municipal judge shall require such owner,
possessor or keeper to pay the fees provided for in subsection G of this
section and shall have the authority, upon making a finding that such dog
constitutes a nuisance or that such dog is a vicious dog or that such dog
constitutes a clear and present danger to the citizens of the community, to
order that such dog be destroyed in a humane manner by the dogcatcher or by
persons authorized to do so by the town administrator. (1997 Code §6.08.170)
   F.   Disposal Of Dog Whose Owner Cannot Be Located: If a complaint has not
been filed in municipal court because the owner, possessor or keeper of an
impounded dog is not known or cannot be located and such dog has not been
claimed within five (5) days from the date of impoundment, not counting the
first day of impoundment, the dog may be disposed of in any humane manner
prescribed by the dogcatcher or by persons so authorized to do so by the town
administrator. (1997 Code §6.08.180)
   G.   Redemption Fees: Any owner, possessor or keeper of a dog desiring to
redeem such dog from the pound shall pay the town an impoundment fee together
with a fee for each day of impoundment for room and board and any and all
license or rabies inoculation fees provided for in this article beginning with
the day of impoundment. Such fees shall be determined from time to time by the
board of trustees by resolution. (Ord. 540, 11-2-2015)
6-7A-9: INTERFERENCE WITH DOGCATCHER OR POLICE OFFICER:
It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or obstruct the
dogcatcher or any police officer in the discharge of their official duties
under this article. (1997 Code §6.08.200)
6-7A-10: INSTIGATING OR ENCOURAGING DOGFIGHTS:
No person shall cause, instigate or encourage any dogfight within the town.
(1997 Code §6.08.210)
6-7A-11: CONFINEMENT OR MUZZLING OF DOGS DURING RABIES DANGER:
   A.   Proclamation Of Mayor: Whenever the mayor shall be of the opinion that
any danger exists from hydrophobia in the town or other danger exists from dogs
running at large within the town, he shall issue his proclamation requiring
every owner, possessor or keeper of any dog within the town to confine or
securely muzzle the same for such time as he may designate, during which time
it shall be unlawful for any dog to be within the town unless so securely
muzzled within a good and substantial wire or leather muzzle securely fastened
and put on so to prevent any such dog from biting.
   B.   Impoundment Of Dogs: It shall be the duty of the dogcatcher and all
police officers of the town to take up and impound any dog that may be found
during the time so designated by the mayor as aforesaid unless muzzled or
confined as herein provided. (1997 Code §6.08.220)
6-7A-12: BARKING, HOWLING AND NOISEMAKING:
Any dog shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if such dog is permitted to
engage in excessive barking, howling or making a noise which tends to be
annoying to adjacent residents or inhabitants of property near the premises
where such animals are kept or harbored. Barking, howling or making a noise
shall be deemed to be annoying if it is repetitive or loud, and offensive to
nearby residents or inhabitants. (1997 Code §6.08.270)
6-7A-13: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
Any unspayed female dog, while in heat, shall be securely confined during such
period in the owner's yard, pen or other enclosure. Such yard, pen or enclosure
shall be so constructed or situated as to prevent other dogs from gaining
access to such yard, pen or other enclosure. (1997 Code §6.08.230)
6-7A-14: NOTICE OR KNOWLEDGE OF VIOLATION; PROSECUTION:
For the purpose of prosecution for violations of this article, it shall not be
necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or knowledge on the
part of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog in question that such dog was
violating any of the provisions of this article at the time and place charged,
it being the purpose and intent of this article to impose strict liability upon
the owner, possessor or keeper of any dog for the actions, conduct and
condition of such dog. (1997 Code §6.08.260)
ARTICLE B. CATS
SECTION:
6-7B-1: Identification And Control
6-7B-2: Disease Control
6-7B-3: Parent's Liability
6-7B-4: Licensing Requirements; Fees
6-7B-5: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposal
6-7B-6: Noise
6-7B-7: Violation; Penalty
6-7B-1: IDENTIFICATION AND CONTROL:
Every person residing in the town, and owning or having in his possession any
cat, shall have the cat bear identification, either by tag or ear tattoo. (1997
Code §6.12.010)
6-7B-2: DISEASE CONTROL:
Every person residing in the town, and owning or having in his possession any
cat, shall be required to have the cat inoculated for rabies, distemper or
other dangerous disease. (1997 Code §6.12.020)
6-7B-3: PARENT'S LIABILITY:
The parent or guardian of any minor claiming ownership of any cat shall be
deemed to be the owner of such animal, and shall be charged for all penalties
and pound fees imposed by this article. (1997 Code §6.12.030)
6-7B-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Licensing And Fees: It is unlawful for any person to harbor or permit
to remain about the premises any cat more than five (5) months of age for which
no license exists. The license fee for cats within the town shall be determined
from time to time by the board of trustees by resolution for licensing each
cat. No household shall keep or maintain more than five (5) cats.
   B.   Application For License:
      1.   Application for license shall be made to the town clerk and shall
include the name and address of the applicant, description of the animal, the
appropriate fee, information as to whether or not the animal is spayed or
neutered, and a rabies certificate or tag issued by a licensed veterinarian or
antirabies clinic.
      2.   Application for the required cat license shall be obtained within
the later of thirty (30) days from the date such cat becomes five (5) months of
age or thirty (30) days after the cat’s acquisition. New residents of the town
shall have thirty (30) days after becoming such residents to secure a required
license hereunder. (1997 Code § 6.12.050; amd. Ord. 540, 11-2-2015; Ord. 570,
1-4-2021)
6-7B-5: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Impoundment Generally:
      1.   If a cat is impounded, it shall be the duty of the police officer
doing the impounding to immediately institute proceedings in the municipal
court on behalf of the town against the owner, possessor or keeper of such cat,
if known, charging the owner, possessor or keeper with a violation of the
appropriate section of this article.
      2.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing the police
officer, or any citizen, from instituting proceedings in municipal court in the
town for violation of this article where there is no impoundment.
   B.   Notice To Owner Or Keeper:
      1.   As soon as practicable after the date of impoundment, the town clerk
shall cause to be sent by regular mail a written notice of such impoundment to
the owner, possessor or keeper of such cat if the address of such person is
known.
      2.   If the owner, possessor or keeper of such cat is not known, or if
his address cannot be determined, the town clerk shall cause to be posted in a
conspicuous place in the town, for a term of five (5) consecutive days, a
notice of impoundment.
      3.   Whether the notice herein is provided by mail or posted, it shall
describe the cat, set forth the date of impoundment, and set forth the location
from which the cat was taken up.
   C.   Release Upon Payment: Any owner or person having custody of a cat
impounded may reclaim such cat by paying to the town an impoundment fee
together with a fee for each day of impoundment for room and board and any and
all license fees provided for in this section beginning with the day of
impoundment. Such fees shall be determined from time to time by the board of
trustees by resolution.
   D.   Disposal Of Stray Cats: If it is determined by the town clerk or the
town clerk’s authorized representative that a cat is a stray and has become a
public nuisance, the cat may be disposed of at the direction of the town clerk
or the town clerk’s authorized representative. For the purposes of this
provision, any animal control officer of the town shall be an authorized
representative of the town clerk. (1997 Code §§ 6.12.060, 6.12.070, 6.12.090;
amd. Ord. 540, 11-2-2015; Ord. 569, 8-3-2020)
6-7B-6: NOISE:
All persons owning, possessing or harboring a cat shall prevent such cat from
whining or making other sounds common to its species in excessive, continuous
or untimely fashion. (1997 Code §6.12.100)
6-7B-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, upon violation of any provision of this
article, shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1997 Code §6.12.110)
CHAPTER 8
NOISE
SECTION:
6-8-1: Noises Generally Prohibited
6-8-2: Loudspeakers, Limitations
6-8-3: Mufflers
6-8-4: Sirens, Whistles, Gongs And Red Lights
6-8-5: Animals
6-8-1: NOISES GENERALLY PROHIBITED:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The making of unnecessary noises upon, near or
adjacent to the streets, highways and other public places in the town is
declared to be a public nuisance. The enumeration of the particular offenses
hereinafter particularly defined shall not be construed as limiting the
generality of this chapter, or limiting the offenses hereunder to the
particular offenses hereinafter enumerated.
   B.   Hours Of Restriction: It is unlawful for any person to make, continue
to or cause to be made or continued any unnecessary or unusual noise between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. which either
annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others.
(1997 Code § 8.20.010; amd. Ord. 579, 10-4-2021; Ord. 579, 10-4-2021)
6-8-2: LOUDSPEAKERS, LIMITATIONS:
It is unlawful to play, operate or use any device known as a soundtrack,
loudspeaker, or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph with loudspeaker or sound
amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle upon public places
unless such person in charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and
received permission from the mayor or chief of police to operate any such
vehicle so equipped. (1997 Code § 8.20.020)
6-8-3: MUFFLERS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which shall not at all
times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and it is
unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a cutout, bypass or
similar muffler elimination appliance. (1997 Code § 8.20.030)
6-8-4: SIRENS, WHISTLES, GONGS AND RED LIGHTS:
It is unlawful for any person to carry or use upon any vehicle other than
police and fire department vehicles or emergency vehicles for public use, any
gong, siren, whistle or red light similar to that used on ambulances or
vehicles of the police and fire department. (1997 Code § 8.20.040)
6-8-5: ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, have in his possession or harbor
any domesticated animals which, by frequent or habitual howling, barking,
meowing, squawking or otherwise, shall cause annoyance or disturbance to
persons in the neighborhood, provided the provisions of this section shall not
apply to hospitals conducted for the treatment of small animals which are
approved by the health department or to premises occupied or used by town
pound. (1997 Code § 8.20.050)
CHAPTER 9
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Fireworks Defined
6-9-2: Licensing Requirements; Fees
6-9-3: Sale And Use Restricted
6-9-4: Public Displays, Permit And Regulations
6-9-5: Bond Required
6-9-6: Disposal Of Unfired Fireworks
6-9-7: Seizure Of Fireworks
6-9-8: Exceptions
6-9-1: FIREWORKS DEFINED:
FIREWORKS: Means and includes any article, device or substance prepared for the
primary purpose of producing a visual or auditory sensation by combustion,
explosion, deflagration or detonation, including, without limitation, the
following articles and devices commonly known and used as fireworks: toy
cannons, toy canes in which explosives are used, blank cartridges, the type of
balloon which requires fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles and dago bombs.
The term "fireworks" shall not include fountains, pinwheels, toy pistols, toy
guns, sparklers or torches which do not contain explosive charges or other
devices in which paper caps manufactured in accordance with United States
interstate commerce commission regulations for packing and shipping of toy
paper caps are used and toy pistol paper caps manufactured as provided herein.
(1997 Code § 8.08.010)
6-9-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   No person shall sell at retail any type of fireworks, including
fountains, pinwheels, sparklers or torches, until he has obtained a license
from the board of trustees.
      2.   No fireworks of any description shall be displayed for sale by any
person, firm or corporation in the town or offered for sale or sold prior to
ten (10) days before July 1 in any year, and no display or sale thereof shall
be continued after July 5 in any year. (1997 Code § 8.08.020)
   B.   License Issuance Requirements: A license to sell fireworks in the town
shall be issued only for such sales as are permitted under this chapter and
only when the board of trustees has determined that the vendor meets the
following requirements:
      1.   That the applicant, or if a corporation, its officers and directors
are of a good moral character and reputation;
      2.   That the applicant has no plan, intent, or scheme to make sales
which are prohibited by this chapter or the state statutes. (1997 Code §
8.08.030)
   C.   License Duration And Fees: Such license shall be valid for the period
of June 24 through July 5 of every year, and a fee of the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per retail license shall be payable for the issuance of such
license. (1997 Code § 8.08.040; amd. 2016 Code)
6-9-3: SALE AND USE RESTRICTED:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to
offer for sale, expose for sale, sell or have in his possession with intent to
offer for sale, sell or to use any fireworks, within the town. (1997 Code §
8.08.050)
6-9-4: PUBLIC DISPLAYS, PERMIT AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Granting Of Permits: The board of trustees shall have the power to
grant permits within the town for supervised public displays of fireworks by
the town amusement parks, and other organizations and groups, and to adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for the granting of such permits.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit shall be made in
writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of display.
   C.   Handling Of Display: Every display shall be handled by a competent
operator and shall be of such character and so located, discharged and fired as
not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person.
   D.   Investigation: Before a permit is granted, the operator and the
location and handling of the display shall be approved after investigation by
the chief of the fire department of the town, or his authorized agent.
   E.   Permit Nontransferable: No permit shall be transferable or assignable.
(1997 Code § 8.08.060)
6-9-5: BOND REQUIRED:
A satisfactory bond shall be required of each permittee in the sum of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) conditioned for the payment of all damages
which may be caused either to persons or property by reason of the licensed
display and arising from the acts of the permittee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors. The aggregate liability of the surety on such bond for all
damages in no event shall exceed the sum of such bond. (1997 Code § 8.08.070)
6-9-6: DISPOSAL OF UNFIRED FIREWORKS:
Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall be
immediately disposed of by the fire department in a method which is safe for
the discharge of that or those particular types of fireworks. (1997 Code §
8.08.080)
6-9-7: SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS:
The police department of the town shall seize, take, remove, at the expense of
the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale,
stored or held in violation of this chapter. (1997 Code § 8.08.090)
6-9-8: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit:
   A.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or having
in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, fireworks to any
municipality, fair association, amusement park, or other organization or group
holding a permit issued as provided in this chapter, or to the governing body
of any county or district fair, organized under the laws of the state.
   B.   Any person from using or exploding fireworks in accordance with the
provisions in this chapter or as a part of a supervised public display at any
county or district fair organized under the laws of the state.
   C.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or having
in his possession with intent to offer for sale, any fireworks which are to be
sold and are shipped directly out of the state.
   D.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or having
in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or exploding
any article, device or substance for a purpose other than display, exhibition,
noise, amusement or entertainment.
   E.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or having
in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or exploding
blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in
organized athletics or sports.
   F.   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or having
in his possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or firing,
toy pistols, toy guns, sparklers or torches which do not contain explosive
charges or other devices in which paper caps manufactured in accordance with
United States interstate commerce commission regulations for packing and
shipping of toy paper caps used and toy pistol paper caps manufactured as
provided in this chapter. (1997 Code § 8.08.100)
CHAPTER 10
MEETINGS, ASSEMBLIES AND PARADES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Permit Required
6-10-3: Application For Permit
6-10-4: Exceptions
6-10-5: Findings Required
6-10-6: Conditions To Permit
6-10-7: Prior Application; Refusal Of Permit
6-10-8: Notice Of Issuance Or Denial
6-10-9: Appeal Procedure
6-10-10: Duty Of Permittee
6-10-11: Public Conduct During Activity
6-10-12: Revocation Of Permit
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACTIVITY: A parade or public meeting or assembly.
FUNERAL PROCESSION: A single direct movement from a mortuary or church to the
place of burial of a human body, under direction of an authorized funeral
director.
PARADE: A march or procession of any kind.
PUBLIC MEETING OR ASSEMBLY: A planned or organized gathering of a group of
persons, or any ceremony, show, exhibition or pageant which may reasonably be
expected to result in the gathering of a group of persons, upon any public
street, park or other public grounds. (1997 Code § 12.36.010)
6-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to hold, manage, conduct, aid, participate in,
form, start or carry on any "parade" or "public meeting or assembly", as
defined in this chapter, in or upon any public street, park or other public
grounds in the town unless and until a permit to conduct such meeting, assembly
or parade has been obtained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
except as herein provided. (1997 Code § 12.36.020)
6-10-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing Application With County Sheriff: Application for permits under
this chapter must be filed with the Washington County sheriff's office not less
than five (5) days in advance of the proposed activity. Late applications may
be accepted if filed sufficiently in advance of the date of the proposed
activity to enable the sheriff to determine that the activity will meet the
requirements set forth in section
6-10-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Information Required: This application shall be in writing and shall
give the following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the
permit. If the activity is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
any organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and the authorized head of such organization shall be stated.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
directly in charge of and responsible for the activity.
      3.   The purpose of the activity.
      4.   The date, time and location or route of the proposed activity.
      5.   The approximate number of persons who will participate in the
activity and the number and kind of vehicles, equipment and animals which will
be used.
      6.   Plans for the assembly and dispersal of the parade, including times
and locations thereof.
      7.   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the streets proposed to be traversed.
      8.   A statement as to whether a permit has been requested or obtained
from any other town within which the activity shall commence, terminate or
occur in part.
      9.   Any additional information which the sheriff shall find reasonably
necessary to a determination of the findings required by section
6-10-5 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 12.36.040)
6-10-4: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   Funeral processions.
   B.   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   C.   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided such activity is authorized by the school
district and is under the immediate direction and supervision of the school
authorities authorized by the school district to approve and supervise such
activity. (1997 Code § 12.36.030)
6-10-5: FINDINGS REQUIRED:
The sheriff or his designated representative shall issue a permit as provided
for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   A.   The conduct of such activity will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic;
   B.   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles will not unduly
interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to,
areas where the activity will take place or areas contiguous to such area;
   C.   The conduct of such activity will not unduly interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire, or the movement of other
emergency equipment;
   D.   The conduct of such activity is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property; and
   E.   Such activity is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising the
goods, wares or merchandise of a particular business establishment or vendor.
(1997 Code § 12.36.050)
6-10-6: CONDITIONS TO PERMIT:
   A.   Authority To Impose: The sheriff shall have authority to impose such
conditions as are necessary to ensure that all of the findings mentioned in
section
6-10-5 of this chapter shall exist during the continuation of the activity.
(1997 Code § 12.36.060)
   B.   Contents Of Permit: Conditions to the issuance of any permit shall be
set forth in the permit. (1997 Code § 12.36.100)
6-10-7: PRIOR APPLICATION; REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
If a prior permit application shall have been made for an activity proposed to
be held at the same time or place, the sheriff may refuse approval of the later
application. In case of such refusal, he shall forthwith send the applicant a
written notice that he may apply for an alternate time and place. (1997 Code §
12.36.070)
6-10-8: NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
The sheriff shall act upon the permit application within three (3) days of the
filing thereof. If he disapproves of the application, he shall mail to the
applicant within that three (3) day period notice of the denial and the reason
for it. (1997 Code § 12.36.080)
6-10-9: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
The applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit to the town
council. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the town clerk within two (2)
days after receipt of the notice of the denial. The town council shall act upon
the appeal at its next meeting following receipt of the notice of the appeal.
(1997 Code § 12.36.090)
6-10-10: DUTY OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Compliance With Terms Of Permit: A permittee hereunder shall comply
with all terms and conditions of the permit and with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
   B.   Carrying Permit: The written permit obtained pursuant to this chapter
shall be carried by the person heading or leading the activity for which the
permit was issued. (1997 Code § 12.36.110)
6-10-11: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING ACTIVITY:
   A.   Obstructing Or Interfering With Activity: It is unlawful for any person
to unreasonably obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or public meeting
or assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating in such parade,
meeting or assembly for which a permit has been granted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Parking Of Vehicles Restricted: The sheriff shall have the authority,
when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles
along a highway or part thereof constituting part of the route of a parade. The
sheriff shall post signs to such effect, and it is unlawful for any person to
park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. (1997 Code §
12.36.130)
6-10-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The sheriff may revoke any permit issued hereunder upon the failure of the
permittee to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit or if the
activity, because of the manner in which it is being conducted, or for any
other reason, is jeopardizing those elements of the public safety or welfare
set forth in section
6-10-5 of this chapter. (1997 Code § 12.36.120)
CHAPTER 11
AKRON FISHING POND
SECTION:
6-11-1: Definitions
6-11-2: Hours Of Operation
6-11-3: Prohibited Activities
6-11-4: Penalties
6-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definition shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
AKRON   That pond and surrounding area located at 39543 Hwy 63, Akron, CO 80720,
FISHING and generally known as the “Akron Fishing Pond.” (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)
POND:
 
6-11-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The hours of operation for the Akron Municipal Pond are from five o’clock (5:
00) a.m to eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. It shall be unlawful for any person to
be present at the Akron Municipal Pond outside of the hours of operation
without a permit issued by the Town of Akron. (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)
6-11-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The following are prohibited at the Akron Municipal Pond:
   A.   Swimming or wading.
   B.   Use of gas-powered boat engines.
   C.   Unattended fires or fires outside of designated fire pits or grills.
   D.   Failure to pick up pet excrement.
   E.   Failure to wear a life vest in the pond.
   F.   Use of motorized vehicles outside of maintained road or designated
parking areas.
   G.   Use of drones outside of Federal Aviation Administration Regulations.
   H.   Use of amplified sound systems.
   I.   Camping without a Town-issued permit.
   J.   Selling any goods or services.
   K.   Use of fireworks.
   L.   Possession of glass containers.
   M.   Hunting or recreational shooting.
   N.   Misuse or destruction of Town of Akron property. (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)
6-11-4: PENALTIES:
Anyone convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter 11,
Title 6 of the Akron Municipal Code shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars ($2,650.00). (Ord. 580, 10-4-2021)
CHAPTER 12
AKRON PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
6-12-1: Definitions
6-12-2: Hours Of Operation
6-12-3: Prohibited Activities
6-12-4: Penalties
6-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definition shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                    All public parks within the Town of Akron, State of
AKRON PUBLIC PARKS: Colorado, including those located at [insert addresses] are
                    Akron Public Parks. (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)
 
6-12-2: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The hours of operation for all Akron Public Parks are from five o’clock (5:00)
a.m to eleven o’clock (11:00) p.m. It shall be unlawful for any person to be
present in any Akron Public Parks outside of the hours of operation. (Ord. 581,
12-7-2021)
6-12-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The following are prohibited in all Akron Public Parks:
   A.   Unattended fires or fires outside of designated fire pits or grills.
   B.   Failure to keep pets on leashes.
   C.   Failure to pick up pet excrement.
   D.   Selling any goods or services.
   E.   Use of fireworks.
   F.   Possession of glass containers.
   G.   Use of amplified sound systems.
   H.   Misuse or destruction of Town of Akron property. (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)
6-12-4: PENALTIES:
Anyone convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter 12,
Title 6 of the Akron Municipal Code shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
two thousand six hundred and fifty dollars ($2,650.00). (Ord. 581, 12-7-2021)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
MODEL TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Code Adopted
7-1-2: Deletions
7-1-3: Additions Or Modifications
7-1-4: Application
7-1-5: Interpretation
7-1-6: Violations; Penalties
7-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: The "Model Traffic Code" 2024 edition is published by the
Colorado Department of Transportation, Traffic Engineering and Safety Branch,
2829 West Howard Place, Denver, CO 80204. The subject matter of the Model
Traffic Code relates primarily to comprehensive traffic control regulations for
the town. The purpose of the Ordinance and the Code adopted therein is to
provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with state law and generally
conforming to similar regulations throughout the state and the nation.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter and the code adopted herein is to
provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with Colorado state law and
generally conforming to similar regulations throughout the state and the United
States of America.
   C.   Copies on File: Three (3) copies of the Model Traffic Code adopted
herein are now filed in the office of the clerk of the Town of Akron, Colorado,
and may be inspected during regular business hours.
(Ord. 595, 8-5-2024)
7-1-2: DELETIONS:
   The 2024 edition of the model traffic code is adopted as if set out at
length save and except the following articles or sections which are declared to
be inapplicable to this municipality and are therefore expressly deleted:
Section 1409(9) is deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. 595, 8-5-2024)
7-1-3: ADDITIONS OR MODIFICATIONS:
The model traffic code is subject to the following additions or modifications:
225(3). Section 225(3) is amended to read:
   "Any person who violates subsection (1) of this section commits a class B
traffic infraction".
615. Designated school zones.
   (1)   The Town may designate certain streets or portions thereof as school
zones. Where flashing lights or signs mandate a reduced speed in a school zone,
said zone shall always be considered a designated school zone, regardless of
whether any such lights are flashing at the time of the violation.
   (2)   Any person convicted of speeding in a designated school zone shall be
penalized by twice the amount of the fine which is in effect by virtue of the
fine schedule adopted by the Municipal Court.
   (3)   Signs indicating that fines will be doubled shall be posted on or in
close proximity to the signs establishing the school zone. The failure to post
such signs shall not be a defense to the underlying speeding charge but shall
prohibit the imposition of double fines by the Municipal Court.
   (4)   A designated school zone shall be designated by flashing beacons or
signs at the school zone limits, and this Section shall be enforced in such
school zones while the beacons are flashing and during the times indicated on
the signs.
703.1. Through Streets: In accordance with the provisions of section 703, and
when official signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles
shall stop or yield as required by said signs at every intersection before
entering any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Name Of Street                  Portion Affected (Terminal Limits)
Cedar Street                    All
Main Street                     All
First Street                    All
Second Street                   Intersection at Adams
Third and Fourth Streets at Elm Four-way stop
Sixth Street                    Cedar at Elm
 
1102.5. Decreased Speed Limits: In accordance with the provisions of section
1102 of the model traffic code for Colorado, revised 2010, as adopted by the
town of Akron, Colorado, the lawful speed limit on all streets within the town
of Akron, Colorado, shall be set at 25 miles per hour, with the exception of
any portion of a street that is designated as a school zone by appropriate
signs posted indicating the portion of the street is a school zone. The lawful
speed limit in all school zones within the town of Akron, Colorado shall be set
at 20 miles per hour.
This section shall not affect those portions of Cedar Avenue, also known as
Colorado State Highway 63, and those portions of 1st Street, also known as U.S.
Highway 34, over which the Colorado department of transportation or the U.S.
department of transportation exercises proprietary state or exclusive federal
jurisdiction to determine the speed limit.
1203. Parking Of Trucks In Certain Areas Prohibited: No person shall park a
tandem truck, a truck tractor or trailer, or vehicle of greater length than a
tandem truck any time on the streets or alleys or any part of the town north of
Second Street in said town.
   1203.1. No person shall park any truck on Main Street between the
intersection of North Railway Street and Third Street.
   1203.2. Abandonment Of Vehicles: No person shall abandon any vehicle within
the town and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town for
such time under circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to
have been abandoned.
   1203.3. Leaving Of Wrecked, Non-Operating Vehicles On Private Property: No
person in charge or control of any property within the town whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
non- operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than thirty (30) days; except that this ordinance shall not apply with
regard to a vehicle within an enclosed building, a vehicle on premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to
the operation of such business enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place maintained in a lawful manner by the town.
   1203.4. Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles: The town administrator
or an employee of the town designated by him is hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any vehicle left at any place within the town which reasonably
appears to be in violation of this ordinance or lost, stolen or unclaimed. Such
vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance
with the law.
   1203.5. Leaving Or Parking Of Wrecked, Nonoperating, Or Unlicensed Vehicles:
No person shall leave or park any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked,
junked, or unlicensed vehicle at any time on any street, alley, highway, public
right-of-way, or easement within the town of Akron, Colorado.
   As used in this section, "unlicensed vehicle" means any motor vehicle
required to be registered or licensed pursuant to title 42, article 3 of the
Colorado Revised Statutes that is not properly registered or licensed.
1204.1. Dynamic Braking Devices Prohibited: The use of dynamic braking devices,
also known as jake brakes, or any other similarly designated auxiliary engine
braking system upon trucks and other motor vehicles is hereby prohibited within
the confines of the limits of the town. Any person who utilizes such braking
system and thereby creates an annoying and disturbing noise within the town
shall be guilty of a violation of this section. It shall be sufficient for
prosecution and conviction of a violation of this offense if the dynamic
braking is overheard, and if the vehicle is observed to be operating in the
general proximity of the occurrence of the noise.
1204.2. Exceptions: It shall be an affirmative defense to an alleged violation
of this chapter if the vehicle is in an emergency situation and in an effort to
avoid collision with any other vehicle, stationary object, or moving object,
use of dynamic braking devices is required for purposes of avoiding said
collision.
1204.5. Parking Time Limited On Certain Streets: In accordance with the
provisions of section 1204, and when official signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a period of time longer than the
hours or minutes marked between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. of any day
except Sundays and public holidays upon any streets or parts of streets as
follows:
 
Name Of Street Portion Affected (Terminal Limits)
Main Street    Railroad to Third, places and times as marked
 
1205(3). Angle Parking: In accordance with the authority granted to the board
of trustees under section 1205(3) of the model traffic code, angle parking
shall be permitted and the streets will be painted on the following portions of
streets:
             From Fifth Street south 51 feet from the southeast corner, on the
Adams Avenue east side of the street only, in front of the Washington County
             clinic
Adams Avenue The east side only from First Street on the south to Second Street
             on the north
             Both sides from Railroad Avenue on the south to Second Street on
Ash Avenue   the north; and the east side only from Third Street on the north,
             one-half block south
             The west side only from First Street on the south to Second Street
Birch Avenue on the north; and the east side only from Second Street on the
             south to Third Street on the north; and from Fourth Street on the
             north, one-half block south
             The west side only from Fourth Street on the south to Fifth Street
Delta Avenue on the north; both sides from Sixth Street on the south to Seventh
             Street on the north; and the west side only from Seventh Street on
             the south to Eighth Street on the north
Eagle Avenue From Sixth Street north to the driveway of St. Joseph's Catholic
             Church, on the east side of the street only
Main Avenue  Both sides from Railroad Avenue on the south to Fifth Street on
             the north
Sixth Street The north side only from Ash Street on the west, one- half block
             east to the alley on the east
 
1210(3). Section 1210(3) is amended to read:
   “Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (2) of this section is
guilty of a class 2 petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of twenty five dollars.”
(1997 Code §§ 10.04.030, 10.08.035; amd. Ord. 468, 6-7-2004; Ord. 476, 7-5-
2005; Ord. 497, 8-3-2010; Ord. 512, 11-4-2013; Ord. 513, 11-4-2013; Ord. 577,
7-6-2021)
7-1-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk area,
driveway, park, and to every other public way or public place or public parking
area, either within or outside the corporate limits of the town, the use of
which this town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate.
   B.   The provisions of sections 1401, 1402, 1413, and part 16 of the adopted
model traffic code, respectively concerning reckless driving, careless driving,
eluding a police officer, and accidents and accident reports shall apply not
only to public places and ways but also throughout the town. (Ord. 497, 8-3-
2010)
7-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its general
purpose to conform with the state of Colorado's uniform system for the
regulation of vehicles and traffic. Article and section headings of this
chapter and the adopted model traffic code shall not be deemed to govern,
limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or extent of the
provisions of any article or section thereof. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010)
7-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
chapter:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions adopted
in this chapter. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010)
   B.   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in this
chapter shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 497, 8-3-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   The penalties for specific violations of the model traffic code may be
set or modified from time to time by resolution of the board of trustees. (Ord.
497, 8-3-2010)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Driver's License Required Within Town
7-2-2: Speeding Ticket Surcharge
7-2-3: Wireless Telephone Prohibitions For Drivers
7-2-4: Helmet Required For Minors Riding Certain Vehicles
7-2-1: DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED WITHIN TOWN:
   A.   State License Or Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in title
42, article 2, parts 1 and 4 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, no person shall
drive any motor vehicle within the town unless such person has been issued a
currently valid driver's or minor driver's license or an instruction permit by
the state of Colorado or another state or country.
   B.   Possession Of License Or Permit:
      1.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle within the town unless such
person has in his or her immediate possession a current driver's or minor
driver's license or an instruction permit issued by the state of Colorado or
another state or country.
      2.   A charge of a violation of subsection B1 of this section shall be
dismissed by the municipal court if the defendant elects not to pay the penalty
assessment and at or before the defendant's scheduled court appearance exhibits
to the municipal court a currently valid driver's or minor driver's license.
   C.   Certain Type Or Class Of Vehicle: No person who has been issued a
currently valid driver's or minor driver's license or an instruction permit
shall drive a type or general class of motor vehicle within the town for which
such person has not been issued the correct type or general class of license or
permit.
   D.   Justifiable Conduct:
      1.   The conduct of a driver of a motor vehicle which would otherwise
constitute a violation of this section is justifiable and not unlawful when:
         a.   It is necessary as an emergency measure to avoid an imminent
public or private injury which is about to occur by reason of a situation
occasioned or developed through no conduct of the driver and which is of
sufficient gravity that, according to ordinary standards of intelligence and
morality, the desirability and urgency of avoiding the injury clearly outweigh
the desirability of avoiding the injury sought to be prevented by this section;
or
         b.   The defendant is exempt from the requirements of licensure as
those exemptions are set forth in Colorado Revised Statutes section 42-2-102.
      2.   The issue of justification or exemption is an affirmative defense.
As used in this subsection, "affirmative defense" means that, unless the town's
evidence raises the issue involving the particular defense, the defendant, to
raise the issue, shall present some credible evidence on that issue. If the
issue involved in an affirmative defense is raised, then the liability of the
defendant must be established beyond a reasonable doubt as to that issue as
well as all other applicable elements of this section.
   E.   Effect Of Previous Convictions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to any defendant who has been convicted
two (2) or more times of violating this section or if the person has been
convicted two (2) or more times under the laws of the state of Colorado or
under the laws of any other state, the United States, or any territory subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States, of an act that, if committed within
the town, would constitute an offense under this section.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, "conviction" means a verdict of
guilty by a judge or jury or a plea of guilty, no contest, or nolo contendere
that is accepted by the court for an offense or adjudication for an offense
that would constitute a violation of this section. "Conviction" also includes
having received a deferred judgment and sentence or deferred adjudication;
except that a person shall not be deemed to have been convicted if the person
has successfully completed a deferred sentence or deferred adjudication.
      3.   If it is determined that a defendant charged with a violation of
this section has two (2) or more prior convictions, the charge brought pursuant
to this section shall be dismissed by the municipal court and shall be filed in
the Washington County court.
   F.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   Upon a first violation of this section, the municipal court shall
assess a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon a second violation of this
section, the municipal court shall assess a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   The municipal court retains the power to assess other additional
penalties in its discretion and within its jurisdiction to impose. (Ord. 500,
4-4-2011)
7-2-2: SPEEDING TICKET SURCHARGE:
   A.   Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes section 42-4-1701(4)(e), an
additional surcharge of seventeen dollars ($17.00) shall be assessed for
speeding violations under the model traffic code for Colorado municipalities,
as revised in 2003, as adopted by the town.
   B.   The surcharge shall be paid to the clerk of the municipal court by the
defendant. Of the surcharge, two dollars ($2.00) shall be retained by the town
and the remaining fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be transmitted to the Colorado
state treasurer for credit to the Colorado traumatic brain injury trust fund,
within fourteen (14) days after the end of each fiscal year. (Ord. 494, 9-1-
2009)
7-2-3: WIRELESS TELEPHONE PROHIBITIONS FOR DRIVERS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the following terms have the following meanings:
    EMERGENCY: A situation in which a person:
      1.   Has reason to fear for such person's life or safety or believes that
a criminal act may be perpetrated against such person or another person,
requiring the use of a wireless telephone while the car is moving; or
      2.   Reports a fire, a traffic accident in which one or more injuries are
apparent, a serious road hazard, a medical or hazardous materials emergency, or
a person who is driving in a reckless, careless, or otherwise unsafe manner.
   HANDHELD COMPUTER: A mobile and compact computer built to function as a
personal scheduling assistant or that provides a connection to the internet or
other wireless technology.
   OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE: Driving a motor vehicle on a public highway.
"Operating a motor vehicle" shall not mean maintaining the instruments of
control while the motor vehicle is at rest in a shoulder lane or while the
motor vehicle is lawfully parked.
   PERSONAL DIGITAL ASSISTANT: A handheld computer, often pen based or with a
keyboard input system, that provides software, especially organizational
software such as an appointment calendar, contacts, note taking applications,
or other applications, and communications hardware, such as a fax modem.
   USE: Talking on or listening to a wireless telephone or engaging the
wireless telephone, a personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or other
similar device for text messaging or other forms of manual data entry or
transmission.
   WIRELESS TELEPHONE: A telephone that operates without a physical, wireline
connection to the provider's equipment. The term includes, without limitation,
cellular and mobile telephones.
   B.   Prohibited Acts; Exception:
      1.   A person under eighteen (18) years of age shall not use a wireless
telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or other similar
device while operating a motor vehicle.
      2.   A person eighteen (18) years of age or older shall not use a
wireless telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or other
similar device for the purpose of engaging in text messaging or other forms of
manual data entry, typing, or transmission while operating a motor vehicle.
      3.   The prohibitions of subsections B1 and B2 of this section shall not
apply to a person who is using the wireless telephone, personal digital
assistant, handheld computer, or other similar device to contact a public
safety entity or during an emergency.
   C.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   A person who operates a motor vehicle in violation of subsection B1
or B2 of this section commits a class A traffic infraction, as that term is
defined in Colorado Revised Statutes section 42-4-1701(3), as amended. Upon a
first violation of this section, the court shall assess a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00). Upon a second or subsequent violation of this section, the court
shall assess a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   An operator of a motor vehicle shall not be cited for a violation of
subsection B1 of this section unless the operator was under eighteen (18) years
of age and a law enforcement officer saw the operator use a "wireless
telephone", "personal digital assistant", "handheld computer", or other similar
device, as those terms are defined in subsection A of this section. An operator
of a motor vehicle shall not be cited for a violation of subsection B2 of this
section unless the operator was eighteen (18) years of age or older and a law
enforcement officer saw the operator use a wireless telephone, personal digital
assistant, handheld computer, or other similar device for the purpose of
engaging in text messaging or other similar forms of manual data entry, typing,
or transmission.
   D.   Seizure Of Device Not Authorized: The provisions of this section shall
not be construed to authorize the seizure and forfeiture of a wireless
telephone, personal digital assistant, handheld computer, or other similar
device, unless otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 496, 3-1-2010)
7-2-4: HELMET REQUIRED FOR MINORS RIDING CERTAIN VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
    FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows and mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, including every motorscooter, with a
motor which produces not to exceed six (6) brake horsepower and every bicycle
with a motor attached, but not trail bikes, minibikes, go-carts, golf carts,
and similar vehicles which are not designed for or approved by the Colorado
department of transportation for use on the public roads or highways and not
motorized bicycles as defined in this subsection.
   MOTOR SCOOTER AND MOTORBICYCLE: Every motor vehicle designed to travel on
not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, except any such
vehicle as may be included within the term "farm tractor" as defined in this
subsection and any "motorized bicycle" as defined in this subsection, which
motor vehicle is powered by an engine of not to exceed six (6) brake
horsepower.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle designed to travel on not more than three
(3) wheels in contact with the ground, except any such vehicle as may be
included within the term "farm tractor" and except a "motorized bicycle" as
defined in this subsection.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE: A vehicle having two (2) or three (3) wheels, a cylinder
capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeters, and an automatic
transmission which produces a maximum design speed of not more than thirty (30)
miles per hour on a flat surface.
   B.   Use Of Helmet Required: A person less than eighteen (18) years of age
may not operate or carry a passenger who is less than eighteen (18) years of
age on a motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter, motorbicycle, or
motorized bicycle on any road, street, alley, or highway within the town
unless:
      1.   The person and the passenger are wearing protective helmets of a
type and design manufactured for use by operators of motorcycles;
      2.   The protective helmet conforms to the design and specifications set
forth in subsection C of this section; and
      3.   The protective helmet is secured properly on the person's head with
a chinstrap while the motorcycle, motor driven cycle, motor scooter,
motorbicycle, or motorized bicycle is in motion.
   C.   Helmet Standards: A protective helmet required to be worn by this
section shall:
      1.   Be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting from head
impacts and to protect the user by remaining on the user's head, deflecting
blows, resisting penetration, and spreading the force of impact;
      2.   Consist of lining, padding, and chinstrap; and
      3.   Meet or exceed the standards established in the United States
department of transportation federal motor vehicle safety standard no. 218, 49
CFR 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
   D.   Additional Fee: An additional fee pursuant to section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall be assessed and imposed and shall not be suspended
for any violation of this section. The fee assessed pursuant to section
7-2-2 of this chapter shall be remitted as set forth in section
7-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 486, 4-7-2008)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Parking Of Certain Vehicles Unlawful; Definitions
7-3-2: Parking Allowed In Certain Specified Places In Residential Areas
7-3-3: Parking On Residential Streets
7-3-4: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES UNLAWFUL; DEFINITIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to park any of the following defined vehicles on
any residential property or street located in a residential district in the
town, except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter:
CAMPER: A separate vehicle designed for human habitation at which can be
attached or detached from a pickup truck or automobile.
MOTOR HOME: A self-contained vehicle designed for human habitation, with its
own motor power, and with a passageway from the body of the home to the
driver's and front passenger seat.
TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or
property on its own structure and to be drawn by a vehicle with motor power.
The term "trailer" includes trailer coach, semitrailer, travel trailer or
utility trailer. (1997 Code § 10.08.010)
7-3-2: PARKING ALLOWED IN CERTAIN SPECIFIED PLACES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter except in certain specified places as follows:
   A.   Carports: A detached or attached structure with a covered roof
containing one or more parking spaces and open on one or more sides. A carport
located upon a lot developed with a residential dwelling or dwellings serve a
similar use as a private garage.
   B.   Driveway: A permanently surfaced area on a lot designed and required to
provide direct access for vehicles between a street and private garage,
carport, or other permitted parking space or parking area or loading area.
   C.   Private Garage: A detached accessory building located upon a lot
developed with a residential dwelling or dwellings, or a portion of the main
residential building, used by the occupant's resident upon the premises,
principally for the storage of passenger vehicles, and other vehicles and
equipment permitted to be located upon the lot.
   D.   Back Yard Or Side Yard: In areas zoned for residential purposes, the
vehicles may be stored outside of a garage but shall not be closer than ten
feet (10') to any building on the same lot, nor shall it be stored closer than
ten feet (10') to any adjoining lot or parcel of land not owned by the owner of
the subject lot, and in no event shall the vehicle be stored in the front yard
of any lot. (1997 Code § 10.08.020)
7-3-3: PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS:
   A.   Compliance With Local Or State Traffic And Zoning Regulations:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the parking of
any vehicle on a street remains subject to the regulation of parking
established pursuant to the town or state traffic and zoning regulations.
   B.   Exemptions: Any motor vehicle not exceeding twenty feet (20') in
length, except a commercial vehicle or motor truck, is exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Prohibitions Against Extended-Term Parking for Trailers, Campers, Motor
Homes, and Boats.
      1.   No trailer shall be detached from a towing vehicle and left standing
on the same block within in any public right of way adjacent to any lot zoned
AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential, or C Residential, or to any lot
within a mobile home subdivision or mobile home park, for a period of longer
than five (5) days.
      2.   No camper shall be unloaded from a motor vehicle and left standing
on the same block within in any public right of way adjacent to any lot zoned
AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential, or C Residential, or to any lot
within a mobile home subdivision or mobile home park, for a period of longer
than five (5) days.
      3.   No motor home shall be left standing on the same block within any
public right of way adjacent to any lot zoned AA Residential, A Residential, B
Residential, or C Residential, or to any lot within a mobile home subdivision
or mobile home park, for a period of longer than five (5) days.
      4.   No boat, whether standing on a trailer or standing by itself, shall
be left standing on the same block within any public right of way adjacent to
any lot zoned AA Residential, A Residential, B Residential, or C Residential,
or to any lot within a mobile home subdivision or mobile home park, for a
period of longer than five (5) days.
   D.   Prohibition Against Obstructing Intersections. No person shall park any
motor vehicle exceeding twenty feet (20') in length, any commercial vehicle or
motor truck which is not a passenger vehicle notwithstanding that such vehicle
does not exceed twenty feet (20') in length, or any nonmotorized vehicle
attached or connected to a motor vehicle, which together exceed twenty feet
(20') in length measured from the front of the motor vehicle to the end of the
nonmotorized vehicle, within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or in any
manner which obstructs the view of any driver approaching such any
intersection. (Ord. 565, 12-9-2019)
7-3-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00), or
by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days for each offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (1997 Code § 10.08.040)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Golf Car Defined
7-4-2: Operation Of Golf Cars Authorized
7-4-3: Registration Required; Fee
7-4-4: Restricted Operations
7-4-5: Operation Within Roadway
7-4-6: Violation; Penalty
7-4-1: GOLF CAR DEFINED:
GOLF CAR: A self-propelled vehicle not designed primarily for operation on
roadways and that has:
   A.   A design speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour;
   B.   At least three (3) wheels in contact with the ground;
   C.   An empty weight of not more than one thousand three hundred (1,300)
pounds; and
   D.   A carrying capacity of not more than four (4) persons. (Ord. 519, 11-3-
2014)
7-4-2: OPERATION OF GOLF CARS AUTHORIZED:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter, and except as prohibited herein, the
operation of golf cars within the town's corporate limits shall be permitted;
provided, however, that this authorization does not permit the operation of
golf cars on county roads outside of the town. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)
7-4-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Registration; Form: No golf car shall be operated in the town without
first being registered with the town clerk on such form and with such
information as shall be determined by the town clerk.
   B.   Registration Stickers: Upon such registration, the golf car shall have
affixed, as evidence of such registration, stickers on the front and rear of
the golf car.
   C.   Annual Renewal: Such registration shall be renewed annually in the same
month in which first registered.
   D.   Fee: The registration fee shall be thirty five dollars ($35.00) and may
be adjusted in the future by resolution of the board of trustees. (Ord. 519,
11-3-2014)
7-4-4: RESTRICTED OPERATIONS:
Notwithstanding the authorization set forth in section
7-4-2 of this chapter, the following restrictions shall apply to the operation
of golf cars within the town:
   A.   Age Restriction: No golf car shall be operated by any person under the
age of sixteen (16) years.
   B.   Driving Privileges Required: No golf car shall be operated by any
person unless such person holds valid driving privileges pursuant to Colorado
Revised Statutes title 42, or the equivalent under the law of any other
jurisdiction within the United States.
   C.   Use On Sidewalks And Trails Prohibited: No golf car shall be operated
upon any sidewalk, pedestrian trail or recreational facility within the town,
whether or not such trail or recreational facility is operated under authority
of the town, with the exception of golf courses and associated golf facilities.
   D.   State And Federal Highway Use Prohibited: No golf car shall be operated
upon any portion of Colorado Highway 63 (Cedar Avenue) and U.S. Highway 34 (1st
Street) within the town's corporate limits.
   E.   Model Traffic Code Compliance: The operator of a golf car shall obey
all traffic and parking regulations otherwise applicable to motor vehicles,
including, but not limited to, the following parts of article I of the model
traffic code:
      1.   Part 1, section 107;
      2.   Part 6, sections 603(1), 608(1), 609, 614 and 615;
      3.   Part 7, all sections except sections 708 and 711;
      4.   Part 8, sections 802(1), 806, 807 and 808;
      5.   Part 9, all sections;
      6.   Part 10, all sections except sections 1010, 1011 and 1012;
      7.   Part 11, section 1101, except that the maximum speed of a golf car
shall not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour under any circumstances, and
section 1105;
      8.   Part 12, all sections except 1207 and 1210; and
      9.   Part 14, all sections except sections 1405, 1407.5, 1408, and 1412.
      10.   Every golf car operated on town streets shall be insured as
provided in section 1409 of the model traffic code.
   F.   Time Limitation; Headlamps: No golf car shall be operated between
sunset and sunrise or at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the street are not
clearly discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000') ahead, unless
such golf car is equipped and illuminated with headlamps, tail lamps, stop
lamps and turn signals as required under part 2 of article I of the model
traffic code.
   G.   Display Of Slow Moving Vehicle Emblem: Every golf car operated upon any
road within the town shall at all times display the slow moving vehicle emblem
as required under article I, section 234 of the model traffic code and as
further regulated by the provisions of 1 CCR section 204-5. (Ord. 519, 11-3-
2014)
7-4-5: OPERATION WITHIN ROADWAY:
Golf cars shall be operated as close to the right side of the roadway as
practicable, exercising due care when approaching, overtaking or passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, or when approaching,
overtaking or passing a pedestrian or bicyclist. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)
7-4-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Fines and fees for violation of this chapter may be set or modified by
resolution of the board of trustees from time to time. (Ord. 519, 11-3-2014)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Authority For Construction
8-1-2: Permit Required; Specifications
8-1-3: Permit Application; Fee
8-1-4: Bond Required
8-1-5: Requirements For New Homes
8-1-6: Barricades And Lights
8-1-1: AUTHORITY FOR CONSTRUCTION:
All streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and curb walks constructed
within the town shall be done only on authority of an ordinance or on authority
of a permit issued by the town administrator. (1997 Code § 12.04.010)
8-1-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, other than those under
contract with the town, to construct, reconstruct, alter or repair any street,
alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter or curb walk without having first obtained a
permit from the town administrator.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: A complete set of rules and regulations shall be
prepared and approved by the board, describing the procedures, precautions and
specifications under which such work shall be done and any other provisions
deemed necessary to the best interests of the town in connection therewith.
(1997 Code § 12.04.020)
8-1-3: PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   Application For Permit; Required Information: Every person desiring to
construct, reconstruct, alter or repair any streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters or curb walks shall apply to the town administrator for a permit
therefor on a form provided by the town stating the applicant's name, the
location, length, dates of commencement and completion of the work and a
statement that the work will be performed in strict compliance with the plans,
specifications, lines and grades approved or furnished by the town
administrator. (1997 Code § 12.04.030)
   B.   Permit Fee: A permit fee, such amount to be determined by resolution of
the board of trustees, shall be paid to the town prior to the issuance of a
permit; provided, however, that the fee may be waived by the town
administrator, in his sole discretion, in the event of small or minor
installations or repairs. (1997 Code § 12.04.040; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-4: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond Amount And Conditions: Every person applying for a permit
authorized by this chapter and prior to the issuance thereof shall file a
surety bond, good for one year in favor of the town in the penal sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
such work in strict compliance with the plans, specifications, rules,
regulations and ordinances of the town; that such person will forthwith repair
or replace any defective or unskilled work and that such person will indemnify
and save harmless the town against and from any and all damages or claims for
damages, loss, costs, charges or expenses that may be brought against it by
reason of such work.
   B.   Waiver Of Bond: The bond may be waived by the town administrator in his
sole discretion in the event of small or minor installation or repairs. (1997
Code § 12.04.050)
8-1-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW HOMES:
All building permits issued for the construction of new residences on lots
located in all areas, excluding R residential, which do not already have curb
and gutter and sidewalks shall include the installation of curb and gutter and
sidewalks, and all such permits shall require the construction of curb and
gutter and sidewalks according to town specifications. (1997 Code § 12.04.035)
8-1-6: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Every person doing or causing to be done any of the work authorized by this
chapter shall keep the work barricaded at all times and, between the hours of
sunset and sunrise, he shall keep the same properly lighted as to warn all
persons thereof. (1997 Code § 12.04.060)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Authority Of Board Generally
8-2-2: Notice To Property Owners Of Action Of Board
8-2-3: Sidewalks Mandatory
8-2-4: Refusal By Owner To Install
8-2-5: Petition By Property Owners
8-2-6: Construction Under Supervision Of Town Administrator
8-2-7: Schedule Of Costs Of Improvements; Lien
8-2-8: Collection Of Delinquent Payments
8-2-9: Installation Of Mains
8-2-10: Maintenance; Keeping Clean
8-2-11: Disturbance Of Grade Stakes
8-2-1: AUTHORITY OF BOARD GENERALLY:
The board of trustees is authorized and empowered to construct and maintain
sidewalks, curbs and gutters or any one or more of such improvements and
provide for the payment of the expense thereof by special assessments upon the
adjacent or abutting property in the manner designated and provided in this
chapter. (1997 Code § 12.08.080)
8-2-2: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS OF ACTION OF BOARD:
Within three (3) days from the time the board orders the construction of any
sidewalks, curb or gutter, the town clerk shall mail a notice to or otherwise
actually notify the owners of the abutting property or their agents of the
action taken by the board concerning such improvements and shall call for
sealed bids for the construction of such improvements to be presented to the
board at its next regular meeting. The notice to the property owners shall
state the time and place of the opening of bids. (1997 Code § 12.08.100)
8-2-3: SIDEWALKS MANDATORY:
   A.   Duty To Install: It shall be the duty of every owner of real property
within the town to provide, install and maintain a sidewalk, curb and gutter,
or curb walk in front of or upon his property, and in such location as may be
designated by the town administrator.
   B.   Compliance With Town Specifications: Such sidewalk, curb and gutter, or
curb walk shall be installed and constructed in strict accordance with
specifications to be provided by the town administrator. (1997 Code §
12.08.040)
8-2-4: REFUSAL BY OWNER TO INSTALL:
   A.   Notice To Owner; Time Limit To Install: Whenever any owner of property
within the town shall refuse to install a sidewalk, curb and gutter, or curb
walk in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the town administrator
or chief of police, pursuant to authority given by the board, shall give notice
to such person directing him to install same within ninety (90) days after
receipt of the notice.
   B.   Installation By Town; Assessment Of Cost: In the event such notice
shall not be obeyed, the town administrator or chief of police may order the
installation and construction of such sidewalk, curb and gutter, or curb walk
and the costs and expenses thereof shall be assessed against the responsible
person. (1997 Code § 12.08.050)
8-2-5: PETITION BY PROPERTY OWNERS:
Whenever the owners of one-half (1/2) of the frontage upon any sidewalk, curb
or gutter of any street or specified portion of any street within the town
shall petition the board for the construction of such sidewalk, curb or gutter
or whenever a two-thirds (2/3) majority of all of the members of the board
shall decide that such improvements are necessary, the board may at any regular
meeting, by resolution, order the construction of such sidewalk, curb or gutter
and the cost of construction thereof shall be apportioned between the owners of
the abutting property and the town as follows:
The town shall pay the cost of construction of such sidewalks, curbs and
gutters across all streets and alleys and the owners of the abutting property
shall pay all other costs of construction in proportion to the number of feet
each owner has of property fronting or abutting upon such sidewalk, curb or
gutter; provided, however, that the board shall not order the construction of
such improvements or any of them upon such petition unless, in its opinion, the
same will be for the best interests of the town. (1997 Code § 12.08.090)
8-2-6: CONSTRUCTION UNDER SUPERVISION OF TOWN ADMINISTRATOR:
All sidewalks, curbs or gutters built within the town shall be constructed
according to this chapter and under the direction and supervision of the town
administrator. (1997 Code § 12.08.070)
8-2-7: SCHEDULE OF COSTS OF IMPROVEMENTS; LIEN:
   A.   Filing Of Schedule: After the completion of any sidewalk, curb or
gutter, as specified in this chapter and to the satisfaction of the town
administrator, the town administrator shall prepare and file with the town
clerk a schedule showing the whole cost of construction, exclusive of the
street and alley crossings, together with a schedule showing the number of feet
abutting on such improvements and the names of the owners of each lot fronting
or abutting thereon and showing the number of feet each owner has fronting or
abutting on such improvements.
   B.   Assess And Proportion Costs: After the schedule is placed in the hands
of the town clerk, he shall assess and proportion the cost of such sidewalks,
curb and gutter among the property owners according to the number of feet of
property each owner has fronting or abutting upon such improvement.
   C.   Assessment A Lien: The amount so assessed shall become a valid and
subsisting lien against such fronting or abutting property and shall be due and
payable at the time of such assessment by the owner or owners of such property.
Such assessment must be paid within thirty (30) days from the time it is made.
(1997 Code § 12.08.110)
8-2-8: COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
If the owners of any abutting property shall fail to pay to the town clerk the
amount assessed against him for the construction of curbs, gutters or sidewalks
within thirty (30) days from the time the assessment is made, the town clerk
shall certify the same to the county treasurer, who shall place the same upon
the tax list for the current year and collect the same in the same manner as
other taxes, with ten percent (10%) penalty thereon to defray the cost of
collection. Such assessments shall be and remain a lien upon such lots or
parcels of land until paid by the owner. (1997 Code § 12.08.120)
8-2-9: INSTALLATION OF MAINS:
It shall be the duty of every person and every utility company to install all
mains, conduits, cables, poles and the like which may be deemed necessary for
water, gas, sewer, storm drainage, telephone and electricity facilities prior
to the installation, construction or paving of any streets, alleys, sidewalks
and curb walks. (1997 Code § 12.08.060)
8-2-10: MAINTENANCE; KEEPING CLEAN:
   A.   Maintenance: All sidewalks, curbs, gutters and curb walks shall be
maintained with an even surface in good repair and in conformity with the
established grade of the streets along which they are constructed. (1997 Code §
12.08.010)
   B.   Duty To Keep Clean: It shall be the duty of all owners or occupants of
every premises within the town to keep the sidewalks, gutters, curbs and curb
walks in front of and adjacent to the tenements and grounds occupied by them
free and clear of snow, ice, mud, dirt, debris, rubbish and filth. (1997 Code §
12.08.020)
8-2-11: DISTURBANCE OF GRADE STAKES:
It is unlawful for any person to remove or disturb any grade or line stakes or
marks set by the town administrator for the purposes specified in this chapter.
(1997 Code § 12.08.030)
CHAPTER 3
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Encroachments Prohibited
8-3-2: Notice And Removal Of Encroachments
8-3-1: ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No encroachment or obstruction whatever, other than provided by law, authorized
by the board of trustees, or by ordinance of the town, shall be made or placed
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, curb walk or other public place
within the town. (1997 Code §12.12.010)
8-3-2: NOTICE AND REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Notice; Time Limit For Removal: Whenever any encroachments or
obstruction including ice, snow, mud, dirt, debris, rubbish and filth, is made,
located, permitted or maintained contrary to this chapter, the town
administrator or the town’s law enforcement designee, shall give notice to the
person who made, caused or permitted same, or to the person who owns or
controls the premises on which same is located or connected, directing such
person to remove such encroachment or obstruction within four (4) hours after
receipt of the notice.
   B.   Removal By Town; Assessment Of Costs: In the event such notice shall
not be obeyed, the town administrator or chief of police may order the removal
of the encroachment or obstruction and the costs and expenses of such removal
shall be assessed against the responsible person. (1997 Code § 12.12.020; amd.
Ord. 576, 6-7-2021)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Authority And Supervision
8-4-2: Permit Required; Specifications
8-4-3: Permit Application
8-4-4: Commencement And Completion
8-4-5: Barricades And Lights
8-4-6: Width And Minimum Inconvenience To Public
8-4-7: Sidewalks And Gutters Clear
8-4-1: AUTHORITY AND SUPERVISION:
All work on any excavation, cut, trench or opening in or under any street,
curb, gutter, curb walk, alley or other public place shall be done only on
authority of a permit issued by the town administrator and such work shall be
supervised by the town administrator. (1997 Code §12.16.010)
8-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person, other than those under
contract with the town, to excavate, cut, open or trench in or under any
street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, curb walk, alley or other public place without
having first obtained a permit from the town administrator.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: A complete set of rules and regulations shall be
prepared by the town administrator and approved by the board describing the
procedures, precautions and specifications under which the excavation work and
backfilling shall be done and any other provisions deemed necessary to the best
interests of the town in connection therewith. (1997 Code §12.16.020)
8-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
Every person desiring to do any excavation work shall apply to the town
administrator for a permit therefor on a form provided by the town, stating the
applicant's name, the location, length, width and purpose of the proposed
excavation, the amount of the permit fee, the dates of commencement and
completion of the work and a statement that the work will be performed in
strict compliance with the plans, specifications, and procedures furnished by
the town administrator. (1997 Code §12.16.030)
8-4-4: COMMENCEMENT AND COMPLETION:
   A.   Time Of Commencement: All work authorized by a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be commenced within a reasonable time after issuance of
the permit and shall be diligently and continuously performed until completion.
   B.   Stoppage Of Work; Order Excavation Refilled: In the event that weather,
process of law, or any other unexpected obstacles shall cause work to be
stopped for so long a time that public travel shall be unreasonably obstructed,
the town administrator may order the excavation refilled and repaved as if the
work contemplated in the permit were actually completed. (1997 Code §12.16.040)
8-4-5: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
Every person making or causing to be made any excavation shall keep the
excavation barricaded at all times and, between the hours of sunset and
sunrise, he shall keep such excavation properly lighted so as to warn all
persons thereof. (1997 Code §12.16.050)
8-4-6: WIDTH AND MINIMUM INCONVENIENCE TO PUBLIC:
   A.   Width Allowing Street Access: No opening or excavation shall be
undercut or have a greater width at the bottom than at the top. In no case
shall more than one-half (1/2) of the width of any street, alley or other
public place be opened or excavated at any one time, and in all cases, one-half
(1/2) of such street, alley or other public place shall remain untouched for
the accommodation of traffic until the other one-half (1/2) is restored for
safe use.
   B.   Minimum Inconvenience: All such work shall be performed in such way as
to cause minimum inconvenience and restriction to the public and to both
pedestrian and vehicular traffic. (1997 Code §12.16.060)
8-4-7: SIDEWALKS AND GUTTERS CLEAR:
It is unlawful for any person performing any excavation work to place any dirt
or other materials upon any sidewalk or in any gutters, and such work shall be
performed so as to permit the free passage of water along the gutters. (1997
Code §12.16.070)
CHAPTER 5
PAVING ALLEYS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Petition Of Property Owners
8-5-2: Compliance With Grade; Materials
8-5-3: Notice To Property Owners To Construct Or Repair
8-5-4: Assessment Of Costs When Owner Fails To Construct Or Repair
8-5-1: PETITION OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
Whenever the owners of the majority of the frontage of the lots or land
adjacent to or abutting upon any alley or designated portion thereof within the
town shall petition the board of trustees for the grading of alley or the
grading and paving of such alley, the board shall immediately order the grading
or grading and paving to be done. (1997 Code §12.20.010)
8-5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH GRADE; MATERIALS:
   A.   Construction Material: All paving constructed in any of the alleys in
the town shall be constructed of either concrete or asphaltum and the same
shall cover the entire surface of the alley, except as hereinafter provided,
and shall be laid with a firm and permanent foundation of suitable material,
according to the specifications of the town administrator.
   B.   Grade: Such paving shall be laid upon the established grade of the
alleys and in all respects be under the supervision and to the satisfaction of
the town administrator.
   C.   Repairs: Paving shall be repaired with the same kind of material as
that used in the construction thereof. (1997 Code §12.20.020)
8-5-3: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
   A.   Notice; Time Limit To Comply: Whenever the board shall order the
grading or paving of any alley or portion thereof or the construction or repair
of any pavement, the town administrator shall forthwith serve a written or
printed notice upon the owner or agent of each lot or parcel of land fronting
upon, adjacent to or abutting upon such pavement or alley to be so graded or
paved, requiring him to grade, construct or repair as much thereof as abuts the
lot or parcel of land owned by him or for which he is agent within thirty (30)
days from the date of the service of such notice, in case of grading and
construction, and in fifteen (15) days in case of repair of such pavement,
according to the plans and specifications provided by the town administrator
and under the direction and to the satisfaction of the town administrator.
   B.   Nonresidents; Publication Of Notice: In case the owner of any such
parcel of land or lot is a nonresident and has no agent in the town upon whom
such notice can be served, the town administrator shall publish a notice of
like tenor and effect for a period of two (2) weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town. (1997 Code §12.20.030)
8-5-4: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS WHEN OWNER FAILS TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR:
   A.   Construction Or Repair By Town; Costs; Lien:
      1.   In case the owner or agent fails to grade such alley or to construct
or repair such pavement within the time specified in the notice provided for by
this chapter, the town administrator may cause the same to be done under the
direction of the town and shall, upon the completion of such work, make out and
deliver to the town clerk a certificate showing the cost thereof and a
description of the property adjacent to or abutting upon such work and
pavement, the name of the parties who performed the work or furnished the
materials therefor and the amounts owing to each.
      2.   The board shall, at their next regular meeting, assess the cost of
such grading, construction or repair of such pavement against the land adjacent
to or abutting upon such pavement or grading, specifying the exact amount so
assessed.
      3.   The expense of the construction or repair of such pavement is
assessed against such property and is made and declared to be a lien against
the same until the agreement is paid.
   B.   Hearing; Appeal By Landowner; Failure To Pay Assessment:
      1.   Upon filing with the town clerk of any such certificate and the
assessment by the board, the board shall designate and set a time and place
when and where such land or lot owner may appear before the board and be heard
as to the justness and correctness of the amount so certified and assessed
against his lot or parcel of land. (1997 Code §12.20.040)
      2.   The town clerk shall then cause to be published in some newspaper of
general circulation in the town, for a period of ten (10) days, a notice to
such lot owner or landowners, setting forth the time and place so fixed and
when and where he or they may appear before the board for the purpose of an
appeal. At the time and place mentioned in such notice, the board shall meet
and hear and consider any and all complaints of any lot owner affected by such
assessments, and correct any errors, and remedy any injustice there may be in
any such certificate and assessment. (1997 Code §12.20.040; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   In case the owner of any lot or parcel of land shall fail to pay any
such assessment to the town clerk within thirty (30) days after the meeting of
the board mentioned in subsection A2 of this section, the same shall be
certified to the county treasurer to be placed upon the tax roll for the
current year and collected in the same manner as other taxes assessed upon such
property. (1997 Code §12.20.040)
CHAPTER 6
TREES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Planting And Maintenance
8-6-2: Trimming Trees
8-6-3: Species And Location
8-6-4: Collection Of Costs Of Trimming By Town
8-6-1: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE:
It shall be the obligation of each property owner within the town to plant,
water and maintain all trees and other vegetation in the parking area, being
the area between the lot line and the curb line, to the front and on the side
of property owned by the property owner within the town. (1997 Code §12.24.010)
8-6-2: TRIMMING TREES:
Every property owner shall be responsible for the trimming of trees in the
parking in front and at the side of his property and also along the alley
adjoining his property. The trees shall be kept trimmed at all times so that
there is a clearance of at least fourteen feet (14') between the surface of the
street or alley and the overhanging branches. (1997 Code §12.24.020)
8-6-3: SPECIES AND LOCATION:
All trees hereafter planted in the parking area along the streets of the town
and in the parks thereof shall be planted under the supervision of the town
administrator. Only such species as may be approved by the town will be
planted, and only in such spacing or arrangement as may be approved by the
town. (1997 Code §12.24.030)
8-6-4: COLLECTION OF COSTS OF TRIMMING BY TOWN:
   A.   Trimming By Town; Assessment Of Cost: In the event any property owner
shall fail or neglect to trim the trees or maintain parking as provided by
sections 8-6-1 through 8-6-3 of this chapter, then the town board may order the
work done by the town and the whole cost thereof, plus five percent (5%) for
inspection and other incidentals, shall be paid to the town clerk within thirty
(30) days after mailing by the town clerk to the owner of the property, by
registered or certified mail, notice of the assessment of such cost.
   B.   Failure To Pay; Lien: Failure to pay such assessment within such period
of thirty (30) days shall cause such assessment to become a lien against such
property and shall have priority over all liens, except general taxes and prior
special assessments, and the same may be certified at any time, after such
failure to so pay the same within thirty (30) days, by the town clerk to the
county treasurer to be placed upon the tax list for the current year and to be
collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected, with ten percent
(10%) penalty to defray the cost of collection. (1997 Code §12.24.040)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-7-1: Establishment; Administration And Supervision
8-7-2: Duties Of Superintendent
8-7-3: Rules And Regulations; Fees
8-7-4: Map And Records; Burial Permits
8-7-5: Applications For Burial Spaces; Contract
8-7-6: Space Fees; Cemetery Trust Fund
8-7-7: Perpetual Care Defined; Cost
8-7-8: Transfer, Assignment Or Conveyance Of Property Right
8-7-9: Selling Lots Or Spaces For Resale
8-7-10: Rights And Interest In Lot Or Space Reverting To Town
8-7-11: Interments
8-7-12: Erection Of Monuments, Markers And Vaults
8-7-13: Fences; Decorations; Planting Vegetation
8-7-14: Prohibitions Within Cemetery
8-7-15: Closing Driveways; Establishing Grades
8-7-16: Nonliability Of Town For Acts Of Trespassers
8-7-17: Abandoned Plots Revert To Town
8-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT; ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION:
   A.   Cemetery Established: There is established as the town cemetery the
following described property:
The North 710 feet of the East Half, Northeast Quarter of Section seven,
Township Two North, Range Fifty-two West.
   B.   Administration And Supervision: The administration and supervision of
the town cemetery shall be by direction of the town administrator through a
superintendent appointed by him, who will employ such other persons as may be
necessary for the care and maintenance of the town cemetery. (1997 Code
§12.28.010)
8-7-2: DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the superintendent to dig graves,
supervise funerals, set monuments or markers, supervise all decoration of lots
and graves, plant and care for all vegetation, maintain and repair driveways
and walks, endeavor to prevent the defacing, destruction or damage of
monuments, markers and other property in the cemetery and carry out and enforce
the rules and regulations of the cemetery.
   B.   Burial; Report Location Of Grave: After each burial, the superintendent
shall report to the town clerk in writing in detail the location of the grave.
(1997 Code §12.28.030)
8-7-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS; FEES:
   A.   Adoption By Board:
      1.   The board of trustees shall adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter governing the cemetery, which
rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public examination in
the office of the town clerk.
      2.   Failure to comply with any rule or regulation promulgated under this
chapter shall be deemed a violation of this code. (1997 Code §12.28.020)
   B.   Fees: Fees for opening graves, disinterring bodies, and use of
equipment shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the cemetery. (1997
Code §12.28.130)
8-7-4: MAP AND RECORDS; BURIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Keeping Map And Records; Permit Issuance:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the town clerk to keep a map and the records
of the cemetery and issue required permits.
      2.   No permits shall be issued without the name and address of the lot
owner and the lot and block number for which application is made. Burial
permits shall be addressed to the superintendent giving the lot and block
number for burial and time of the funeral.
   B.   Time Of Application: The town clerk shall require application for all
burial permits to be made at least eight (8) working hours before the funeral
and shall not issue permits for funerals less than one hour apart. (1997 Code
§12.28.040)
8-7-5: APPLICATIONS FOR BURIAL SPACES; CONTRACT:
Applications for the purchase of burial spaces shall contain a description of
the space, purchase price and method of payment, and when executed by the
purchaser and the town, it shall become a binding contract of purchase and
sale. Upon payment of the full purchase price to the town, a cemetery deed by
the town, executed by the mayor conveying the space free and clear of all
encumbrances shall be executed and delivered to the purchaser. (1997 Code
§12.28.050)
8-7-6: SPACE FEES; CEMETERY TRUST FUND:
   A.   Price Of Spaces: The sale price of grave spaces shall be:
 
         Lot Only Price With Perpetual Care
1 space  $100.00        $180.00
2 spaces 200.00         320.00
3 spaces 300.00         460.00
4 spaces 400.00         600.00
5 spaces 500.00         740.00
6 spaces 600.00         880.00
 
   B.   Cemetery Trust Fund: The fees set forth in this section and subsection
8-7-7B of this chapter shall be placed into the cemetery trust fund established
by the town. (Ord. 504, 9-6-2011)
8-7-7: PERPETUAL CARE DEFINED; COST:
   A.   Perpetual Care Defined: The term "perpetual care" means the cutting of
the grass at reasonable intervals; the raking and cleaning of the plots; the
general care and pruning of the trees and shrubs that may be placed along the
walks, roadways and boundaries by the town. The term shall not include the
maintenance, repair or replacement of any gravestones, monuments or memorials;
nor the planting of flowers or ornamental plants; nor the maintenance or doing
of any special or unusual work in the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.140)
   B.   Obtaining Perpetual Care; Cost:
      1.   All persons purchasing cemetery spaces shall pay a cost of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per space for the actual space, and a onetime fee for
perpetual care in the following amount:
 
1 space  $ 80.00
2 spaces 120.00
3 spaces 160.00
4 spaces 200.00
5 spaces 240.00
6 spaces 280.00
 
      2.   The fees set forth in this subsection B shall, from time to time, be
established by resolution of the board of trustees.
      3.   The fees set forth in this subsection B shall be placed into the
cemetery trust fund established by the town. (Ord. 504, 9-6-2011)
8-7-8: TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT OR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY RIGHT:
No transfer, assignment or conveyance of any property right or interest in the
town cemetery shall be valid without the consent in writing of the town. The
town shall not consent to the transfer of any property right or interest in the
town cemetery upon which there is any indebtedness due the town. (1997 Code
§12.28.070)
8-7-9: SELLING LOTS OR SPACES FOR RESALE:
No lot or space shall be sold to or purchased by a funeral director or other
persons for purposes of resale or speculation. (1997 Code §12.28.080)
8-7-10: RIGHTS AND INTEREST IN LOT OR SPACE REVERTING TO TOWN:
In the event a lot or space is vacated by reason of bodies being removed
therefrom, all right and interest in the lot or space shall revert to the town.
(1997 Code §12.28.090)
8-7-11: INTERMENTS:
   A.   Town Authority To Allow Interments: Applications and permission for
interment, interment charges and payments, and permissible use of burial space
shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the cemetery. It shall be
conclusively presumed, unless written notification to the contrary is filed
with the town clerk, that the purchase of any space in the town cemetery is
being acquired for family use, and the town shall have the right, without
obtaining any interment permit from the owners, to allow interment in such
space of any members of the family of the owners.
   B.   Interments In Akron Cemetery Only: Under no circumstance shall
interment be allowed in any location within the town, other than designated
spaces at the Akron Cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.100)
8-7-12: ERECTION OF MONUMENTS, MARKERS AND VAULTS:
All monuments or markers shall be placed at least six inches (6") inside the
space lines and shall be made of granite, marble or real bronze and shall be
erected upon a foundation. Erection, construction, specifications, materials
and placing of marker foundations, monuments, vaults and corner stones shall be
governed by the rules and regulations of the cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.110)
8-7-13: FENCES; DECORATIONS; PLANTING VEGETATION:
Fences, railings, hedges and other obstructions and decorations other than
flowers, vases, wreaths and flags are prohibited, and will be removed without
notice. All decoration of lots or spaces and planting of vegetation within the
cemetery shall be under the control, supervision and direction of the
superintendent, who will be governed by the rules and regulations of the
cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.120)
8-7-14: PROHIBITIONS WITHIN CEMETERY:
No person in the town cemetery shall:
   A.   Drive or ride any machine or animal on lots, lawns or walks.
   B.   Drive an automobile or other vehicle in excess of twenty (20) miles per
hour or such lesser speed as shall be prudent under the conditions and
circumstances then existing. (1997 Code §12.28.190)
   C.   Picnic or discard paper boxes and other unsightly articles in the
cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.190; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Cause any employee to do work for lot owners without an order from the
superintendent or give to any employee any valuable consideration to do work
for a lot owner.
   E.   Do work on the grounds, except by permission of the superintendent.
   F.   Perform or cause to be performed a burial in the cemetery on Sunday,
Christmas, Thanksgiving or Memorial Day.
   G.   Hunt or in any way disturb the birds or fowl or discharge any firearms,
fireworks or other missiles within or over any portion of the cemetery or
around the gates, fences or roads adjoining the same, except as a part of
military funerals or similar occasion.
   H.   Take any animal or permit any animal to be taken into the cemetery.
   I.   Deface, damage, destroy or injure any monuments, markers or other
property or thing in the town cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.190)
8-7-15: CLOSING DRIVEWAYS; ESTABLISHING GRADES:
The town shall have the right to close any walk or driveway in the cemetery
heretofore existing or hereafter constructed and to establish grades. (1997
Code §12.28.200)
8-7-16: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN FOR ACTS OF TRESPASSERS:
The town shall not be liable for any act of lot owners, visitors, licensees or
trespassers within the cemetery or for any damage to person or property while
within the town cemetery. (1997 Code §12.28.210)
8-7-17: ABANDONED PLOTS REVERT TO TOWN:
Any cemetery plot for which perpetual care has not been paid shall be deemed to
have been abandoned, and title to any unused portion of said lot shall revert
to the town, which shall have the right to make resale of such lot, plot or
unused portion thereof. (1997 Code §12.28.180)
CHAPTER 8
PARKS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Authority To Establish
8-8-3: Rules And Regulations
8-8-4: Daily Park Hours
8-8-5: Destruction Of Park Property
8-8-6: Erection Of Tents And Buildings
8-8-7: Lighting Fires
8-8-8: Riding Or Leading Animals
8-8-9: Huckstering
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, unless the context
requires otherwise, shall have the following meanings:
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the town, either now existing or which shall be subsequently acquired
in accordance with the provisions of section 8-8-2 of this chapter, owned or
used by the town, and devoted to active or passive recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
TOWN: The town of Akron. (1997 Code §12.32.020)
8-8-2: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH:
The town, which is incorporated under the laws of the state, shall have
authority to acquire, establish and maintain in the manner provided for by
state law, public parks or pleasure grounds, boulevards, parkways, avenues and
roads. (1997 Code §12.32.010)
8-8-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The town administrator is empowered and authorized to adopt rules and
regulations for the management, operation and control of parks, parkways and
recreational areas. (1997 Code §12.32.090)
8-8-4: DAILY PARK HOURS:
   A.   Hours: The city park, the library grounds, and the swimming pool park
will be open daily from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
All other municipal parks shall be open daily to the public from five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   B.   Extend Time Limits By Permit: No person not an employee of the parks
shall remain in any of them at any other time; provided, however, that the town
administrator may, by permit first having been obtained, extend or limit the
times herein specified. (1997 Code §12.32.030)
8-8-5: DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to cut, mark, remove, break or climb upon, or in any way injure,
damage or deface the trees, shrubs, plants, turf, or any of the buildings,
fences, bridges or other structures or property within or upon park premises;
or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any
park or recreation area. (1997 Code §12.32.040)
8-8-6: ERECTION OF TENTS AND BUILDINGS:
It is unlawful to build or place any tent, building, booth, stand or other
structure in or upon any of the parks, parkways or other recreational
facilities without first having obtained a permit to do so from the town
administrator. (1997 Code §12.32.050)
8-8-7: LIGHTING FIRES:
   A.   Prohibition; Exception: It is unlawful to light, make or use any
unenclosed picnic or trash fire within the parks, parkways or other recreation
facilities owned or operated by the town; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to authorized park employees.
   B.   Certain Fires Allowed: Fires may only be built in fireplaces or on
grills constructed for that purpose in such areas and under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the town administrator. (1997 Code
§12.32.060)
8-8-8: RIDING OR LEADING ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person to ride or lead any horse or other livestock in
any public park or recreational area except upon paths or other ways expressly
provided and posted for that purpose. (1997 Code §12.32.070)
8-8-9: HUCKSTERING:
It is unlawful to offer any goods, services or things for sale within parks,
parkways or recreational facilities, or on the streets and sidewalks within
three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of the same without first having
obtained a license or permit to do so in the manner and pursuant to the terms
and conditions fixed by the town board. (1997 Code §12.32.080)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITIES GENERALLY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Lien Procedure For Unpaid Bills
9-1-1: LIEN PROCEDURE FOR UNPAID BILLS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    COST OF COLLECTING: The service charge which will be required to be paid in
addition to full payment of the bill. Such service charge shall be the greater
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or the actual costs of attorney fees, filing
expenses, labor, and any other cost incurred as a result of collection or
filing a lien with the Washington County treasurer.
   LANDOWNER: The landowner of property as listed on the records of the
Washington County assessor as well as legal representatives, assigns,
authorized agents, and successors in interest of the landowner of record of the
property served by the town.
   UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES: All charges applicable to water, sewer, sanitation
collection services and all charges applicable to any other town services as
are designated as utility charges by this code or any other ordinance of the
town.
   B.   Landowner Liability: Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the landowner of every premises, building, lot, house, or dwelling
unit is liable for all charges for utility services furnished to the premises,
building, lot, house, or dwelling unit.
   C.   Prior And Superior Lien: All utility service charges, together with
interest and the cost of collecting them, if any, are a lien that is prior and
superior to all other liens, claims, titles, and encumbrances, whether prior in
time or not, except liens for general taxes, and remain a lien upon the
property to which utility services are delivered from the date such charges,
together with interest and the cost of collecting them, if any, become due
until they are paid.
   D.   Enforcement Of Lien: The town may enforce the lien against the property
or the liability against the landowner in an action at law or an action to
enforce the lien. If any person in possession of any premises, building, lot,
house, or other dwelling unit pays the entire charges due and owing, the
payment relieves the landowner from such liability and the premises, building,
lot, house, or dwelling unit from the lien. But the town is not required to
look to any person other than the landowner of the premises, building, lot,
house, or other dwelling unit for the payment of the charges.
   E.   Multi-Family Dwellings: For condominiums, town homes, and any such
multi-family dwellings to which utility services are furnished by means other
than by metering the consumption of each dwelling unit, the lien for the unpaid
utility service charges, interest, and costs of collection, if any, imposed by
subsection B of this section attaches upon each dwelling unit an amount
computed by dividing the total amount of the lien by the number of dwelling
units.
   F.   Change Of Ownership Or Occupation: No change of ownership or occupation
shall be deemed to affect the application of this section or any of its
provisions. The failure of any landowner to learn that the landowner purchased
any property against which a lien for unpaid utility services exists does not
affect the landowner's liability for such payment in full and is not a basis
for any claim of any kind whatsoever against the town for refusing to turn on
utility services until the charges are paid in full.
   G.   Collection Remedies: If any landowner fails or refuses to pay when due
any tax, charge, or assessment imposed by this section, any other ordinance of
the town, or this code, the town clerk may, in addition to taking other
collection remedies, certify due and unpaid taxes, charges, and assessments,
including interest and cost of collection, to the Washington County treasurer
to be levied against the landowner's property for collection by the county in
the same manner as delinquent general taxes upon such property are collected.
   H.   Hearing To Contest Town Authority:
      1.   Before certifying taxes, charges, interest, cost of collection, and
assessments to the county for collection as prescribed by subsection G of this
section and if requested by the landowner in writing, the town clerk shall
provide to the landowner an opportunity for a hearing to contest the authority
of the town to incur the taxes, charges, or assessments or the amount thereof.
The town clerk shall conduct such hearing as a quasi-judicial hearing.
      2.   The town clerk shall mail the notice to the landowner by first class
mail addressed to the last known landowner of the property as listed on the
records of the Washington County assessor.
      3.   If, after a hearing, the town clerk's decision affirms the
imposition of charges, the decision shall include notice that the charges are
due and payable within ten (10) days of the date of the decision and that, if
not paid when due, the charges will be certified to the Washington County
treasurer for collection.
   I.   Notice Of Certification: Whenever the town clerk certifies any tax,
charge, interest, cost of collection, or assessment to the Washington County
treasurer for collection, the town clerk shall record notice of such
certification to the Washington County clerk and recorder.
   J.   Perpetual Lien; Collection:
      1.   Any tax, charge, or assessment imposed by this section, any other
ordinance of the town, or this code, together with interest and cost of
collection, if any, if not paid by the due date specified, constitutes a
perpetual lien on the property to which service was delivered.
      2.   The attachment of such lien is not dependent on the recording of
written notice, and the lien is prior and superior to all other liens, claims,
titles, and encumbrances whether or not prior in time except liens for general
taxes. The lien remains attached to the property from the date the fees and
charges became due until the delinquent fees and charges, together with
interest and costs of collection, if any, are paid.
      3.   When the tenant in possession of the property served or any third
person pays the utility bill, it relieves the landowner from the obligations
and lien imposed by this section, but the town is not required to seek payment
of utility charges from any person other than the landowner. No change of
ownership, occupation, or possession affects the application of this section,
and the failure of any landowner to discover that he or she purchased property
against which a lien for utility services exists in no way affects such
landowner's liability for payment in full.
      4.   The town may enforce the lien by a suit for foreclosure and sale of
the property subject to the lien. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
the unpaid fees and charges and allowable costs in the manner provided for
foreclosure of statutory liens. The lien may also be enforced by certification
of assessment upon the property to the county treasurer for collection by the
county in the same manner as delinquent general taxes and special assessments
upon such property are collected or by any other means provided by law.
      5.   Delinquent utility service charges together with interest and cost
of collection may also be collected by civil suit against the landowner of the
property served at any time after the charges become delinquent. The remedies
provided in this section are cumulative and supplemental to each other. (Ord.
475, 4-4-2005)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2-1: Creation Of Water Department
9-2-2: Town Authority And Powers
9-2-3: Town Clerk Duties; Receipts And Deposits
9-2-4: Inspections
9-2-5: Regulations Part Of Contract
9-2-6: Application For Permit For Water Connection
9-2-7: Tapping Charges And Requirements
9-2-8: Metering Of Water
9-2-9: Service Line Regulations
9-2-10: Water Rates
9-2-11: Billing And Delinquency Procedures
9-2-12: Waste Of Water Prohibited
9-2-13: Use Curtailed During Fire Alarms
9-2-14: Limitation On Water Use
9-2-15: Unauthorized Tampering
9-2-16: Cross-Connection And Backflow Prevention Program
9-2-1: CREATION OF WATER DEPARTMENT:
There is created and established a water department of the town for the purpose
of management, maintenance, care and operation of the waterworks of the town.
(1997 Code § 13.04.010)
9-2-2: TOWN AUTHORITY AND POWERS:
   A.   Town Administrator: The town administrator shall have the immediate
control and management of all things pertaining to the town waterworks system,
and he shall perform all acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient
and economical management and protection of said waterworks, subject to the
approval and confirmation of the board of trustees.
   B.   Town Board: The town board of trustees shall have the power to
prescribe such other and further rates, rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary. (1997 Code § 13.04.020)
9-2-3: TOWN CLERK DUTIES; RECEIPTS AND DEPOSITS:
The town clerk shall keep a correct account of all receipts, make out all bills
for water rents and materials furnished to consumers, collect the same, and
deposit the proceeds so collected with the town treasurer to the credit of the
waterworks fund of the town, and in accordance with the direction of the board.
(1997 Code § 13.04.030)
9-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever in the judgment of the administrator he deems it necessary, he may
inspect the premises or buildings of any water consumer for the purpose of
examining the condition of all pipes, motors, meters and water fixtures, of the
manner in which the water is used. He shall be vigilant to protect and remedy
all abuses whether from waste or other improper use of water. (1997 Code §
13.04.040)
9-2-5: REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT:
All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every person taking water from the waterworks of the town, and
every person taking water shall be considered as having expressly consented to
be bound thereby. (1997 Code § 13.04.180)
9-2-6: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR WATER CONNECTION:
An application may be made to the town clerk for a permit to have tapped the
street mains forming a part of the town waterworks. If granted, such permit
shall be signed by the officer in his official capacity, shall set forth the
name of the person for whose benefit such permit shall be granted, and the size
of the stop for discharging the water from the mains to the service pipes, and,
as near as may be, the point at which such tapping shall be done and the place
to which the water is to be thus conducted, and such officer shall keep a
record of all such permits in a book kept for that purpose in his office, which
record shall set forth the substance of every permit. (1997 Code § 13.04.050)
9-2-7: TAPPING CHARGES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Meter Deposit: Upon the application for a new tap and service
connection by any consumer within the corporate limits of the town, the
applicant shall pay a meter deposit in an amount set forth by resolution of the
board of trustees. (1997 Code § 13.04.060; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Tapping Installation; Trenching: The tap shall be installed by the
town. All necessary trenching and backfilling shall be at the expense of the
applicant and under the supervision of the town administrator.
   C.   Ownership Of Line: The town shall own and maintain the water line from
the main to the curb box and the property owner shall own and maintain the
service line from the curb box to the premises served.
   D.   Work By Licensed Plumber: All work upon the service line shall be
performed by a licensed plumber. (1997 Code § 13.04.060)
9-2-8: METERING OF WATER:
   A.   Location Of Meter: All water sold by the town shall be metered by
meters which may be installed either in a curb box or inside of the building at
the option of the property owner.
   B.   Meters Owned By Town: All water meters shall be owned and kept in
repair by the town. (1997 Code § 13.04.080)
9-2-9: SERVICE LINE REGULATIONS:
   A.   No more than one building shall be permitted to use a water service
line.
   B.   Only copper or its equivalent approved by the town administrator or his
representative shall be used for the installation of a service line and all
service lines shall be installed at a depth at least forty inches (40") below
the surface of the ground.
   C.   Each service line shall contain a stop and waste cock where the water
may be turned off. (1997 Code § 13.04.090)
9-2-10: WATER RATES:
All water sold by the town shall be sold at a rate set forth each year when the
following year's annual budget is adopted. (1997 Code § 13.04.120; amd. 2016
Code)
9-2-11: BILLING AND DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Billing; Due Date:
      1.   Water meters shall be read around the twentieth day of each month,
as nearly as possible, and bills shall be mailed so as to reach the customer on
or around the first day of the following month.
      2.   All water bills shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the
month following the reading of the meter. (1997 Code § 13.04.130; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Failure To Pay; Water Disconnection: If any consumer does not pay for
water, sewer fees, or garbage collection fees so used by him by the twenty
fifth day of the following month, then and in that event the town administrator
shall forthwith disconnect the consumer from town water and the water shall not
again be furnished until all services used by the consumer shall be fully paid
for. (1997 Code § 13.04.140; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Payment Of All Charges Before Reconnection: In case there shall be any
water rent, sewer fees or garbage collection fees delinquent and the supply of
water has been turned off, the water shall not be turned on again until all
such delinquent rents or fees have been paid. (1997 Code § 13.04.150)
   D.   Fees And Rates Charged Against Property: All water rents, sewer fees
and garbage collection fees shall be charged against the property served and
against the owner thereof, and if for any cause any sums owing therefor become
delinquent, the water shall be cut off and in no case shall it be turned on to
the same property until such delinquencies shall have been paid in full. Change
of ownership or occupation shall not affect the application of this chapter.
(1997 Code § 13.04.160)
   E.   Charge For Turning Water On: If the water supply to any premises is
turned off for nonpayment of water bill, sewer fees or garbage collection fees,
a charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be made for turning the water back
on, provided said work is done during regular working hours on Monday through
Friday; further, the charge shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) if the work has to
be done outside of regular working hours. (1997 Code § 13.04.170; amd. 2016
Code)
9-2-12: WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and
keep all water outlets closed when not in actual use. Hydrants, urinals, water
closets, bathtubs and other fixtures must not be left running for any purpose
other than the use for which they were intended.
   B.   Turning Off Water: In addition to the penalty provided therein for code
violations, the water supply may be turned off where any such waste occurs.
(1997 Code § 13.04.100)
9-2-13: USE CURTAILED DURING FIRE ALARMS:
During all alarms of fire, the use of hose and all outlets where a constant
flow of water is maintained is discouraged. (1997 Code § 13.04.110; amd. 2016
Code)
9-2-14: LIMITATION ON WATER USE:
   A.   Town Authority: The town administrator shall have full power and
authority to limit the use of water for irrigating purposes, whenever he deems
it necessary or expedient.
   B.   Notice Of Limitation: In the event of any limitation on the use of
water for sprinkling or irrigation, notice of the limitation shall be published
in one issue of the official newspaper of the town. From and after giving the
notice, such order shall be effective and all consumers shall comply therewith.
(1997 Code § 13.04.190)
9-2-15: UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING:
No person shall tap, tamper or otherwise disturb any water main, curb cock,
meter or other property of the town used in connection with its water plant and
supply system, and no one shall use water from the town plant unless a
qualified consumer who has duly made application to the town clerk as
hereinabove provided; provided, however, that this shall not apply to the town
administrator or a licensed plumber in the discharge of his duties. (1997 Code
§ 13.04.200)
9-2-16: CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Applicability. This Sub-Section 16 applies to all commercial,
industrial and multi-family residential service connections within the public
water system and to any persons outside the Town who are, by contract or
agreement with the public water system, users of the public water system. This
Sub-section 16 does not apply to single-family-residential service connections
unless the public water system becomes aware of a cross connection at the
single-family connection.
   B.   Definitions.
ACTIVE DATE:  The first day that a backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method
              is used to control a cross-connection in each calendar year.
              A physical separation between the free flowing discharge end of a potable water
AIR GAP:      supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel installed in
              accordance with standard AMSE A112.1.2.
              The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water and other liquids,
BACKFLOW:     gases or other substances into the public water systems distribution system from
              any source or sources other than its intended source.
BACKFLOW      Backflow into a public water system from an uncontrolled cross connection such
CONTAMINATIO  that the water quality no longer meets the Colorado Primary Drinking Water
N EVENT:      Regulations or presents an immediate health and/or safety risk to the public.
BACKFLOW      Any mechanical assembly installed at a water service line or at a plumbing
PREVENTION    fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event, provided that the mechanical
ASSEMBLY:     assembly is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross connection
              and is an in-line field-testable assembly.
BACKFLOW      Any method and/or non-testable device installed at a water service line or at a
PREVENTION    plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event, provided that the
METHOD:       method or non-testable device is appropriate for the identified contaminant at
              the cross connection.
CERTIFIED     A person who possesses a valid Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester certification
CROSS-        from one of the following approved organizations: American Society of Sanitary
CONNECTION    Engineering (ASSE) or the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA). If a
CONTROL       certification has expired, the certification is invalid.
TECHNICIAN:
              The installation of a backflow prevention assembly or a backflow prevention
CONTAINMENT:  method at any connection to the public water system that supplies an auxiliary
              water system, location, facility, or area such that backflow from a cross
              connection into the public water system is prevented.
CONTAINMENT   The installation of backflow prevention assemblies or backflow prevention methods
BY ISOLATION: at all cross connections identified within a customer’s water system such that
              backflow from a cross connection into the public water system is prevented.
              Having a properly installed, maintained, and tested or inspected backflow
CONTROLLED:   prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that prevents backflow through
              a cross connection.
              Any connection that could allow any water, fluid, or gas such that the water
CROSS         quality could present an unacceptable health and/or safety risk to the public, to
CONNECTION:   flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture, or a customer’s water system into a public
              water system’s distribution system or any other part of the public water system
              through backflow.
MULTI-FAMILY: A single residential connection to the public water system’s distribution system
              from which two or more separate dwelling units are supplied water.
              i.   A single dwelling which is occupied by a single family and is supplied by a
SINGLE-       separate service line; or
FAMILY:       ii.   A single dwelling comprised of multiple living units where each living unit
              is supplied by a separate service line.
              Not having a properly installed and maintained and tested or inspected backflow
UNCONTROLLED: prevention assembly or backflow prevention method, or the backflow prevention
              assembly or backflow prevention method does not prevent backflow through a cross
              connection.
WATER SUPPLY  A water distribution system, piping, connection fittings, valves and
SYSTEM:       appurtenances within a building, structure, or premises. Water supply systems are
              also referred to commonly as premise plumbing systems.
 
   C.   Requirements.
      1.   Commercial, industrial and multi-family service connections shall be
subject to a survey for cross connections. If a cross connection has been
identified an appropriate backflow prevention assembly and or method shall be
installed at the customer’s water service connection within 120 days of its
discovery. The assembly shall be installed downstream of the water meter or as
close to that location as deemed practical by the public water system. If the
assembly or method cannot be installed within 120 days the public water system
must take action to control or remove the cross connection, suspended service
to the cross connection or receive an alternative compliance schedule from the
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.
      2.   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or tees
between the meter and the containment backflow prevention assembly.
         a.   In instances where a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow
prevention devices or methods at all cross-connections within the owner’s
plumbing system.
      3.   Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed in a
location which provides access for maintenance, testing and repair.
      4.   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed in manner subject to flooding.
      5.   Provisions shall be made to provide adequate drainage from the
discharge of water from reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assemblies. Such discharge shall be conveyed in a mater which does not impact
waters of the state.
      6.   All assemblies and methods shall be protected to prevent freezing.
Those assemblies and methods used for seasonal services may be removed in lieu
of being protected from freezing. The assemblies and methods must be
reinstalled and then tested by a certified cross-connection control technician
upon reinstallation.
      7.   Where a backflow prevention assembly or method is installed on a
water supply system using storage water heating equipment such that thermal
expansion causes an increase in pressure, a device for controlling pressure
shall be installed.
      8.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such tests must be conducted
by a Certified Cross-Connection Control Technician.
      9.   The public water system shall require inspection, testing,
maintenance and as needed repairs and replacement of all backflow prevention
assemblies and methods, and of all required installations within the owner’s
plumbing system in the cases where containment assemblies and or methods cannot
be installed.
      10.   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, testing and as
needed repair and replacement are to be borne by the customer.
      11.   No grandfather clauses exist except for fire sprinkler systems
where the installation of a backflow prevention assembly or method will
compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system.
      12.   For new buildings, all building plans must be submitted to the
public water system and approved prior to the issuance of water service.
Building plans must show:
         a.   Water service type, size and location
         b.    Meter size and location
         c.   Backflow prevention assembly size, type and location
         d.   Fire sprinkler system(s) service line, size and type of backflow
prevention assembly.
            (1)   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum protection of
an approved double check valve assembly for containment of the system.
            (2)   All glycol (ethylene or propylene), or antifreeze systems
shall have an approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer for
containment.
            (3)   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check valve
assembly installed upstream of the air pressure valve.
            (4)   In cases where the installation of a backflow prevention
assembly or method will compromise the integrity of the fire sprinkler system
the public water system can chose to not require the backflow protection. The
public water system will measure chlorine residual at location representative
of the service connection once a month and perform periodic bacteriological
testing at the site. If the public water system suspects water quality issues
the public water system will evaluate the practicability of requiring that the
fire sprinkler system be flushed periodically.
      13.   The following is a partial list of facilities which require
backflow prevention. The type of backflow device for any water service serving
multiple uses shall be based on the most restrictive use. The list includes,
but is not limited to:
         a.   Apartment houses.
         b.   Auto repair garages.
         c.   Car washes.
         d.   Department stores.
         e.   Exterminators and veterinary clinics.
         f.   Facilities with boilers, condenser water or chilled water
systems.
         g.   Fire sprinkler with or without chemical additives.
         h.   Food processing plants.
         i.   Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, health clinics,
morgues, mortuaries, nursing homes.
         j.   Hotels and motels.
         k.   Laundries and dry cleaners.
         l.   Plating operations.
         m.   Photo developing.
         n.   Radiator and battery shops.
         o.   Restaurants.
         p.   Restricted, classified, or other facilities closed to inspection.
         q.   Sand, gravel, and concrete plants.
         r.   Schools with instructional laboratories.
         s.   Swimming pools.
         t.   Commercial farms.
   D.   Ownership. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed downstream
of the water meter and shall be owned by and shall be the responsibility of the
customer of the water enterprise.
   E.   Installation and Costs. Customers of the water enterprise requiring
backflow prevention assemblies shall pay all costs associated with installation
and testing of the appropriate size and type of backflow preventer under
private contract. For newly constructed facilities, backflow preventers shall
be installed prior to the final plumbing inspection so that the device can be
included as part of the inspection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed in accordance with the Colorado Cross-Connection Control Manual,
latest edition.
   F.   Inspection, Testing, and Repair.
      1.    Backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be tested by a
Certified Cross-Connection Control Technician upon installation and tested at
least annually, thereafter. The tests shall be made at the expense of the
customer.
         a.   Any backflow prevention assemblies or methods that are non-
testable, shall be inspected at least once annually by a certified cross-
connection control technician. The inspections shall be made at the expense of
the customer.
      2.   As necessary, backflow prevention assemblies or methods shall be
repaired and retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the customer
whenever the assemblies or methods are found to be defective.
      3.   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at least
once annually.
   G.   Reporting and Recordkeeping.
      1.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests, or
replacements shall be kept by the customer for a minimum of three (3) years.
      2.   Copies of records of test reports, repairs and retests shall be
submitted to the public water system by mail, facsimile or e-mail by the
testing company or testing technician.
      3.   Information on test reports shall include, but may not be limited
to,
         a.   Assembly or method type
         b.   Assembly or method location
         c.   Assembly make, model and serial number
         d.   Assembly size
         e.   Test date; and
         f.   Test results including all results that would justify a pass or
fail outcome
         g.   Certified cross-connection control technician certification
agency
         h.   Technician’s certification number
         i.   Technician’s certification expiration date
         j.   Test kit manufacturer, model and serial number
         k.   Test kit calibration date
   H.   Right of Entry. A properly credentialed representative of the public
water system shall have the right of entry to survey any and all buildings and
premises for the presence of cross-connections for possible contamination risk
to and for determining compliance with this section. This right of entry shall
be a condition of water service in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of customers throughout the public water system’s distribution system.
   I.   Compliance.
      1.   Customers shall cooperate with the installation, inspection,
testing, maintenance, and as needed repair and replacement of backflow
prevention assemblies and with the survey process. For any identified
uncontrolled cross-connections, the public water system shall complete one of
the following actions within 120 days of its discovery:
         a.   Control the cross connection
         b.   Remove the cross connection
         c.   Suspend service to the cross connection
      2.   The public water system shall give notice in writing to any owner
whose plumbing system has been found to present a risk to the public waters
system’s distribution system through an uncontrolled cross connection. The
notice and order shall state that the owner must install a backflow prevention
assembly or method at each service connection to the owner’s premises to
contain the water service. The notice and order will give a date by which the
owner must comply.
         a.   In instances where a backflow prevention assembly or method
cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow prevention
assemblies or methods at all cross-connections within the owner’s water supply
system. The notice and order will give a date by which the owner must comply.
   J.   Non-Compliance and Enforcement. In emergency situations when the public
potable water supply is being contaminated or is in immediate danger of
contamination, the water service to the customer will be discontinued by the
water enterprise. Delivery of water to any water customer may be discontinued
by the water enterprise if any protective device required by this division has
not been installed, or is defective, or has been removed or bypassed.
Discontinued water service shall not resume until conditions at the consumer’s
premise have been abated or corrected to the satisfaction of the water
enterprise.
   K.   Violations and Penalties. Any violation of the provisions of this
ordinance, shall, upon conviction be punishable as provided in all applicable
statues, laws, and regulations. (Ord. 559, 6-3-2019)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SERVICE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Rules And Regulations
9-3-3: Connection With Sanitary Sewer Required; Exception
9-3-4: Connection Permit Requirements; Fee
9-3-5: Construction Of Sewers
9-3-6: Discharge Of Nonacceptable Wastes Into Sewer Prohibited
9-3-7: Use Of Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
9-3-8: Control Manhole Required
9-3-9: Abandonment Of Connection
9-3-10: Interference With Town Employees; Digging Up Streets
9-3-11: Prohibited Acts
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
NONACCEPTABLE WASTES: The following wastes:
   A.   Any water or waste having a five (5) day biological oxygen demand which
may contain more than one thousand (1,000) parts per million by weight as
averaged during any twelve (12) hour period.
   B.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   C.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   D.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, woods, paunch manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx,
carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of obstruction of the
flow of the sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewage works.
   E.   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.
   F.   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to injure or interfere with sewage process, constituting
a hazard to humans or animals or creating any hazard in the receiving waters of
the sewage treatment plant.
   G.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character or
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such material
at the sewage treatment plant.
   H.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
SANITARY SEWAGE: The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar flood drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigeration drips, drinking fountains and any other
waterborne waste not constituting an industrial waste. (1997 Code § 13.08.010;
amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The board of trustees shall make and enforce such rules and regulations
as it may deem necessary for the safe, efficient and economical management of
the town sewer system.
   B.   Such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to this code or any
other ordinances of the town and laws of the state, shall have the same force
and effect as ordinances of the town. (1997 Code § 13.08.160)
9-3-3: CONNECTION WITH SANITARY SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Privies, Septic Tanks Restricted: Except where otherwise provided, no
person shall maintain within the town any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended for use for the disposal of sewage.
   B.   Private Sewage Disposal System:
      1.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available within the town or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the town, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions and
recommendation of the department of public health of the state.
      2.   Such private sewage disposal system shall be constructed, maintained
and operated at all times in a sanitary manner.
   C.   Connection To Public Sanitary Sewer When Available: At such time as a
public sanitary sewer becomes available to property served by a private sewage
disposal system, a direct system connection shall be made to the public
sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and any septic
tank, cesspool or similar sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and
filled with suitable material. (1997 Code § 13.08.020)
9-3-4: CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to open, uncover or in
any manner make connection with any sewer main or line of the town, or to lay
drain or sewer pipes on any premises or in any street or alley in the town
without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the town administrator.
(1997 Code § 13.08.030)
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for the permit shall be in
writing and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant.
      2.   Name and address of owner of the premises where the connection is to
be made; drain or line is to be laid.
      3.   Location of the proposed connection, drain or sewer pipes.
      4.   Statement as to the type of connection and type of materials to be
discharged into the sewer.
      5.   Statement as to whether the connection is to be made to the storm
sewer or the sanitary sewer. (1997 Code § 13.08.040)
   C.   Issuance Of Permit:
      1.   If the proposed connection does not violate any provision herein and
does not violate any other laws of the town, the town clerk shall issue a
permit for such connection.
      2.   Such permit shall contain all information contained in the
application and shall specify the type and kind of grease and sand traps to be
used. (1997 Code § 13.08.050)
   D.   Tapping Fee: At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall
pay a tapping fee as set forth by resolution of the board of trustees for the
connection to the sewer of any property. (1997 Code § 13.08.060; amd. 2016
Code)
9-3-5: CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS:
   A.   User Responsible For Personal Sewer Line: Any user of the sewer system,
either inside or outside of the corporate limits, must build his own sewer line
if there is no line available for him to connect with.
   B.   Connection To Town Sewer System: All connections to the town's sewer
system must be made by a licensed plumber, subject to the supervision and
inspection of the town administrator, and in compliance with the state plumbing
code. (1997 Code § 13.08.070)
9-3-6: DISCHARGE OF NONACCEPTABLE WASTES INTO SEWER PROHIBITED:
The discharge of nonacceptable wastes into the town sewer system whether
directly or indirectly is prohibited, and where investigation reveals the
presence in the system of nonacceptable wastes emanating from any lot, land,
building or premises, the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of such lot, land,
building or premises shall be, at his own expense, required to treat,
neutralize or in other ways prepare the noxious substance therein to the
satisfaction of the town administrator in order to convert the same into
acceptable wastes. (1997 Code § 13.08.080)
9-3-7: USE OF GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Interceptors Required; Exception: Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the town administrator, they are
necessary for the proper handling of any liquid waste containing grease in
excessive amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except, that such interceptor shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units.
   B.   Type And Capacity; Accessibility: All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the town administrator, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (1997 Code §
13.08.090)
9-3-8: CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED:
   A.   When required by the town administrator, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of
the waste.
   B.   Such manholes, when required, shall be accessible and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved by the town
administrator.
   C.   The manholes shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1997 Code §
13.08.100)
9-3-9: ABANDONMENT OF CONNECTION:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall abandon any building connection
without first obtaining a written permit therefor.
   B.   Sealing Abandoned Sewer: Such building connection shall be effectively
sealed with a vitrified clay stopper inserted in the bell of the sewer
extending to the property line which stopper shall be jointed as directed by
the town administrator. (1997 Code § 13.08.110)
9-3-10: INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN EMPLOYEES; DIGGING UP STREETS:
   A.   Interference With Town Employees: No person shall in any way interfere
with the employees of the town in any discharge of their duties either in the
tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral.
   B.   Digging Up Street; Permit Required: No person shall dig up or cause to
be dug up any street or alley in the town for the purpose of connecting with
the sewer system of the town, without first obtaining a permit, and no person
having a permit shall dig up any portion of any street or alley of the town for
the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the town and fail or neglect
to place the street or alley in its original condition. (1997 Code § 13.08.120)
9-3-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Deposit Of Unsanitary Wastes On Property: No person shall deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property
within the town, or within any area within the jurisdiction of the town, any
human or animal excrement wastes. (1997 Code § 13.08.130)
   B.   Deposit Of Untreated Industrial Waste Into Natural Outlets: No person
shall discharge into any natural outlet within the town, or any area within the
jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewer industrial waste or other polluted
waste, except where suitable treatment has been provided. (1997 Code §
13.08.140)
   C.   Damaging Or Tampering With Sewers: No person shall maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage or destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the town
sanitary sewer system. (1997 Code § 13.08.150)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Collection By Town; Fee
9-4-3: Container Requirements
9-4-4: Rental Housing
9-4-5: Billing; Delinquencies
9-4-6: Bagging Animal Waste
9-4-7: Uncovered Garbage
9-4-8: Windblown Refuse
9-4-9: Deposits On Streets
9-4-10: Consent Of Owner For Dumping Of Garbage
9-4-11: Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
GARBAGE: Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish, including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles; provided, refuse shall not include earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings. (1997 Code § 8.16.010)
9-4-2: COLLECTION BY TOWN; FEE:
   A.   Collection Of Garbage: The town administrator shall have charge of the
collection of garbage, refuse and ashes in the town. The collection shall be
made from all premises at least once a week, weather permitting; provided, that
the material is properly stored for collection in a container complying with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Fee Set By Board: The fee for private residences, commercial
establishments, and other business places shall be such as may be set from time
to time by the town board. (1997 Code § 8.16.070)
9-4-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Container Construction; Capacity: All garbage, refuse and ashes for
collection by the town shall be placed in metal or plastic containers designed
for the storage of such garbage, refuse and ashes and designed so that they can
be lifted and carried by one man. No such container shall have a capacity of
less than ten (10) gallons or more than ninety (90) gallons.
   B.   Commercial Establishments: All commercial establishments and other
business places which produce garbage, refuse and ashes for collection by the
town in an amount deemed by the town administrator to be excessive in quantity
shall place its garbage, refuse and ashes in containers designed for said
purpose, equipped with a cover and with a structure so that they may be lifted
and dumped by the garbage truck presently operated by the town. No such
container shall have a capacity that the town garbage truck cannot properly
lift and deposit. (1997 Code § 8.16.080; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-4: RENTAL HOUSING:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all structures in the town
containing three (3) or more rental dwelling units, and the owner of such
building or structure, or part thereof, shall be responsible for conforming to
the requirements of this chapter. All such owners shall be required to place on
their premises sufficient metal or plastic containers for the use of his
tenants. If a sufficient amount of garbage, refuse and ashes exists as shall be
determined by the town administrator, the town may require such owner to
provide a container suitable for commercial establishments and other business
places, as set forth in subsection 9-4-3B of this chapter. (1997 Code §
8.16.090; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-5: BILLING; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Time For Billing: Bills for the collection of garbage, refuse and ashes
shall be sent out at such times as may be directed by the town board. (1997
Code § 8.16.100; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Failure To Pay Bill; Service Stopped:
      1.   When an occupant or owner of any premises fails to pay the fee for
removal of garbage, refuse or ashes, the town administrator shall notify the
occupant or owner of this fact and shall refuse further collection until the
required fee is paid.
      2.   The fact that garbage, refuse or ashes remains on any occupant's
premises in the town in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence
that the occupant of such premises is responsible for the violation of this
chapter occurring. (1997 Code § 8.16.110)
9-4-6: BAGGING ANIMAL WASTE:
All animal, fowl and rodent waste will be bagged in a plastic bag prior to
being placed in metal or plastic containers designed for storage, which
container shall be covered. (1997 Code § 8.16.081; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-7: UNCOVERED GARBAGE:
It is unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the town any garbage,
or other materials subject to decay other than leaves or grass, excepting in a
tightly covered metal or plastic container intended for such purpose. (1997
Code § 8.16.020)
9-4-8: WINDBLOWN REFUSE:
It is unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes or trash of
such a material that it can be blown away by wind anywhere in the town
excepting in a covered container. (1997 Code § 8.16.030)
9-4-9: DEPOSITS ON STREETS:
It is unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any garbage,
refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the town; provided, that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse or ashes in
a container complying with the provisions of this chapter preparatory to having
such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein. (1997
Code § 8.16.040)
9-4-10: CONSENT OF OWNER FOR DUMPING OF GARBAGE:
It is unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on any premises or
in any container in the town without the consent of the owner of such premises
or container. (1997 Code § 8.16.050)
9-4-11: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
It is unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes anywhere in the town
excepting in a disposal device, properly constructed and operated, or in a
lawfully established garbage or refuse dump. Such material not so properly
disposed of shall be placed in containers for collection by the town as herein
prescribed. (1997 Code § 8.16.060)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Inspector; Fees
10-1-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
10-1-3: Standards Maintained
10-1-4: Stop Orders
10-1-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR; FEES:
   A.   Appointment: At its first regular meeting following each biennial
election, the board of trustees shall appoint a qualified person as building
inspector.
   B.   Duties: The building inspector shall be the chief enforcement officer
for all building regulations contained in this title, including the various
codes adopted herein by reference, except the fire prevention code. He shall
make the required inspections, and he shall perform such other duties as the
board may direct.
   C.   Fees: All fees provided herein shall be paid to the town clerk and
deposited in the general fund. (1997 Code § 15.04.010)
10-1-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Wherever in the building code or other codes contained in this title it is
provided that anything must be done for the approval of or subject to the
direction of, the inspecting agents or any other officer of the town, this
shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining
whether the rules and standards established by ordinance or the respective
codes have been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as
giving any officer or agent discretionary powers as to such conditions and
things not prescribed by ordinance or code, or to enforce ordinance provisions
in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. (1997 Code § 15.04.030)
10-1-3: STANDARDS MAINTAINED:
All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures and any form of work done in connection therewith shall be performed
in a good, workmanlike manner according to accepted standards and practices in
the trade. (1997 Code § 15.04.040)
10-1-4: STOP ORDERS:
   A.   Issuance Of Stop Order; Notice: Whenever any work is being done in
violation of the provisions of this title, or in variance with the terms of any
permit issued for such work, the building inspector or his agent may order all
work on the job stopped until such violation or variance is eliminated and any
work or installation made in violation of this title corrected. Such stop
order, if oral, shall be followed by a written order within twenty four (24)
hours (excluding Saturday, Sunday or holidays).
   B.   Violation Of Stop Order: It is unlawful to do or perform any work in
violation of such stop order, except as may be necessary to prevent injury or
damage to persons or property.
   C.   Revocation Of Order: Such stop order may be revoked by the building
inspector or his agent, the mayor, or the board of trustees. (1997 Code §
15.04.020)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Code Adopted
10-2-2: Revisions To Adopted Code
10-2-3: Violations; Penalties
10-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   A certain document, one (1) copy of which is on file in the office of the
town clerk, being marked and designated as the International Building Code,
2018 edition, including chapters 1 through 35, inclusive, and appendices C, E,
G, H, I, and J, as published by the International Code Council, 5203 Leesburg
Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, VA 22041-3401, be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the town for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions, and terms of said Building Code on file in the office of the town
clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if
any, prescribed in section
10-2-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 514, 1-6-2014; amd. Ord. 589, 6-5-2023)
10-2-2: REVISIONS TO ADOPTED CODE:
The following sections of the code adopted in section
10-2-1 of this chapter are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado
Section 105.2. Delete: Building: 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, & 12
Section 105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after
its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended
or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced.
A permit shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months, and the building
official shall cancel the permit at the end of the twelve-month period, except
in the following circumstances:
            (1)   If an applicant makes a showing at the time of the
application that the work is substantial and is likely to take longer than
twelve (12) months, then a permit valid for a period longer than twelve (12)
months, but no more than three (3) years, may be issued.
            (2)   If a permittee notifies the building official prior to the
expiration of the twelve-month period, the building official is authorized to
grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than
180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable
cause demonstrated.
            (3)   If, after a permit has expired or has been cancelled, the
work remains incomplete and one or more inspections is required to be
performed, a new permit must be applied for and granted before the work can
proceed and inspections performed.
Section 1612.3. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado
Section 1612.3. Insert: April 1, 1988
Section 3412.2. Insert: February 3, 2014
(Ord. 548, 1-3-2018)
10-2-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure
in the Town, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of the
Building Code or any other Construction Code of the Town. (Ord. 514, 1-6-2014)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions of the Building Code, as adopted and amended herein, or any
other Construction Code of the Town, or who shall fail to comply therewith, or
who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who
shall build, construct, fabricate, or install anything in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications of plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, or who shall fail
to comply with such an order within the time fixed therein, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of competent jurisdiction,
within the required time, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that a violation occurs or
that a prohibited condition is maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 514, 1-6-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Removal Of Prohibited Condition: The application of the above penalty
or penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of any
prohibited condition. (Ord. 514, 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Code Adopted
10-3-2: Revisions To Adopted Code
10-3-3: Violations; Penalties
10-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Residential Code, 2009
edition, including chapters 1 through 43, inclusive, and appendices B, C, D, E,
G, H, J, and K, as published by the International Code Council, 5203 Leesburg
Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, VA 22041-3401, be and is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of the Town for regulating and governing the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, location,
removal, and demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and
multiple-, single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three (3) stories
in height with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Residential
Code on file in the Office of the Town Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014)
10-3-2: REVISIONS TO ADOPTED CODE:
The following sections of the code adopted in section
10-3-1 of this chapter are hereby revised:
Section R101.1. Insert: Town of Akron, Colorado
Section R105.2. Delete: Building: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 9
Section R105.5. Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after
its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended
or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time the work is commenced.
A permit shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months, and the building
official shall cancel the permit at the end of the twelve-month period, except
in the following circumstances:
            (1)   If an applicant makes a showing at the time of the
application that the work is substantial and is likely to take longer than
twelve (12) months, then a permit valid for a period longer than twelve (12)
months, but no more than three (3) years, may be issued.
            (2)   If a permittee notifies the building official prior to the
expiration of the twelve-month period, the building official is authorized to
grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than
180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable
cause demonstrated.
            (3)   If, after a permit has expired or has been cancelled, the
work remains incomplete and one or more inspections is required to be
performed, a new permit must be applied for and granted before the work can
proceed and inspections performed.
Table R301.2(1). Insert: Ground Snow Load = 20; Wind Speed = 90; Topographic
Effects = No; Seismic Design Category = C; Weathering = Severe; Frost Line
Depth = 30; Termite = Slight-Moderate; Winter Design Temp. = 0; Ice Shield
Underlayment Required = No; Flood Hazards = 76/04; Air Freezing Index = 0-1000;
Mean Annual Temp. = 47
Section R313.1. shall be modified as follows:
R313.1. Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler System. Effective February 3, 2014,
an automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in all
townhouses.
Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do not have
an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
Section R313.2. One- And Two-Family Dwellings Automatic Fire Systems. (Deleted)
Section P2603.6.1. Insert 12"
(Ord. 549, 1-3-2018)
10-3-3: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure
in the Town, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of the
Residential Code or any other Construction Code of the Town. (Ord. 515, 1-6-
2014)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions of the Residential Code, as adopted and amended herein, or
any other Construction Code of the Town, or who shall fail to comply therewith,
or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who
shall build, construct, fabricate, or install anything in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications of plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, or who shall fail
to comply with such an order within the time fixed therein, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of competent jurisdiction,
within the required time, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that a violation occurs or
that a prohibited condition is maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 515, 1-6-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Removal Of Prohibited Conditions: The application of the above penalty
or penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of any
prohibited condition. (Ord. 515, 1-6-2014)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Board Authority
10-4-2: Numbers Required
10-4-3: System Of Numbering
10-4-4: Placing Numbers
10-4-5: Material Of Numerals
10-4-6: Unauthorized Numbers
10-4-7: Map Of Streets
10-4-8: Certificate Of Numbers
10-4-1: BOARD AUTHORITY:
The board of trustees shall have the power to name or rename any of the streets
or public highways of the town and the board shall have the power to divide or
subdivide any of the streets, public highways or public lands into streets,
roadways, gutters, sidewalks and parks. (1997 Code § 15.28.080)
10-4-2: NUMBERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Numbers Required; Assignment: It is the duty of the owner or occupant
of every building in the town to number such building in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and with the numbers assigned by the town
administrator. The town administrator shall assign to every building its proper
number.
   B.   Expense: The expense of such numbering shall be paid by the owner or
occupant of the building. (1997 Code § 15.28.010)
10-4-3: SYSTEM OF NUMBERING:
In numbering the buildings upon the streets of the town, all even numbers shall
be on the south and east side of each street or avenue, and all odd numbers
shall be on the north and west side of each street or avenue; provided,
however, that where the street or avenue shall curve or change direction, the
street or avenue shall nevertheless be numbered in accordance with the
principal direction thereof. (1997 Code § 15.28.020)
10-4-4: PLACING NUMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of any building to place assigned
numerals in a conspicuous position at the front of each building and, upon
notice from the town administrator or chief of police, such numerals shall be
so placed within thirty (30) days after service of such notice. (1997 Code §
15.28.030)
10-4-5: MATERIAL OF NUMERALS:
All numerals shall be of some metallic, glass, porcelain or other durable
material, or gilt lettering on the inside of a glass transom of door, and shall
be distinctly legible and at least three inches (3") in height. (1997 Code §
15.28.040)
10-4-6: UNAUTHORIZED NUMBERS:
It is unlawful for any owner or occupant of any building to use or permit to be
used upon any building any number other than the number assigned by the town
administrator. (1997 Code § 15.28.050)
10-4-7: MAP OF STREETS:
The town administrator shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, from time to
time when directed by the board, a map of the streets of the town showing the
numbers of all buildings and lots and the names of all streets. (1997 Code §
15.28.060)
10-4-8: CERTIFICATE OF NUMBERS:
Upon proper application, the town administrator shall issue to the owner or
occupant of any building or lot a certificate designating the proper number for
such building or lot. Any certificate so issued shall pertain to the number of
only one building or lot. (1997 Code § 15.28.070; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COLORADO PLAINS REGIONAL AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONING
SECTION:
10-5-1: Short Title
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Airport Height Restriction Zones
10-5-4: Airport Zone Height Limitations
10-5-5: Compatible Land Use Regulations
10-5-6: Nonconforming Uses
10-5-7: Permit Requirements
10-5-8: Enforcement
10-5-9: Board Of Adjustment
10-5-10: Appeals
10-5-11: Conflicts; More Stringent Requirements Govern
10-5-12: Violations; Penalties
10-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the COLORADO PLAINS REGIONAL
AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: Colorado Plains Regional Airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet from mean sea level.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
10-5-4 of this chapter. In plan, the perimeter of the approach surface
coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, AND CONICAL ZONES: The zones set forth in
section
10-5-3 of this chapter.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the board of trustees for the town of Akron,
Colorado.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HELIPORT PRIMARY SURFACE: The primary surface coincides in size and shape with
the designated takeoff and landing area of a heliport. This surface is a
horizontal plane at the elevation of the established heliport elevation.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be
used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than twelve thousand five hundred
(12,500) pounds' maximum gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
NAVD 88: North American vertical datum 1988. All elevations in this chapter are
referenced to the 1988 North American vertical datum.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of and which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment thereto.
NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance or
area type navigation equipment, for which a straight in nonprecision instrument
approach procedure has been approved or planned. It also means a runway for
which a nonprecision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an
approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity or a trustee, a receiver, an
assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY: A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS), a precision approach
radar (PAR), or a global positioning system (GPS). It also means a runway for
which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved
airport layout plan or any other planning document.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; for military runways, or when the
runway has no specially prepared hard surface or planned hard surface, the
primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary
surface is set forth in section
10-5-3 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is
the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: Any object, including mobile objects, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: These surfaces extend outward at ninety degree (90°)
angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope
of seven feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and
conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision
approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical
surface, extend a distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured horizontally
from the edge of the approach surface and at ninety degree (90°) angles to the
extended runway centerline.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-3: AIRPORT HEIGHT RESTRICTION ZONES:
   A.   Zones Created; Filing Of Maps: In order to carry out the provisions of
this chapter, there are hereby created and established certain zones which
include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional
surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the
Colorado Plains Regional Airport. Such zones are shown on the Colorado Plains
Regional Airport federal aviation regulation (FAR) part 77 airspace drawing.
Three (3) original, official, and identical copies of the FAR part 77 airspace
drawings reflecting the boundaries of the airport height restriction overlay
zoning districts of the town are hereby adopted, and the board of trustees
acting through the mayor of the town is hereby authorized to sign and attest
each map as the official Colorado Plains Regional Airport FAR part 77 airspace
drawing and such maps shall be filed and maintained as follows:
      1.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office of the
town clerk-administrator and shall be designated as exhibit A. This copy shall
not be changed in any manner.
      2.   One copy shall be filed with the planning commission and shall be
designated as exhibit B. This copy shall be maintained by the planning
commission by posting thereon all subsequent changes and amendments.
      3.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport manager and
shall be designated as exhibit C.
   B.   Zones Established And Defined: Each portion of an area located in more
than one of the following zones shall be evaluated independently according to
the zone in which it is located. The various zones are hereby established and
defined as follows:
      1.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility
Runway): The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the
primary surface and is one thousand feet (1,000') wide. The approach zone
expands outward uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000') at a
horizontal distance of fifty thousand feet (50,000'). Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      2.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility
Runway): The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the
primary surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands
outward uniformly to a width of three thousand five hundred feet (3,500') at a
horizontal distance ten thousand feet (10,000') from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      3.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Utility Aircraft): The
inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary
surface and is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of two thousand feet (2,000') at a horizontal distance
five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      4.   Visual Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility Runway): The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach surface expands uniformly to a
width of one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') at a horizontal distance five
thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. Its centerline is the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      5.   Visual Runway Approach Zone (Utility Aircraft): The inner edge of
this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is two
hundred fifty feet (250') wide. The approach surface expands uniformly to a
width of one thousand two hundred fifty feet (1,250') at a horizontal distance
of five thousand feet (5,000') from the primary surface. The centerline of the
approach zone is a continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      6.   Transitional Zone: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces.
      7.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs
of five thousand (5,000) or ten thousand feet (10,000') radii from the center
of each end of the primary surface of the primary runway and connecting the
adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does
not include the approach and transitional zones. The horizontal zone was
constructed with ten thousand feet (10,000') radii.
      8.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
      9.   Airport Critical Zones: The dimensions of this zone coincide with
the dimension of the precision instrument runway approach zones. The inner edge
of this zone is one thousand feet (1,000') wide. The zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of sixteen thousand feet (16,000') at a horizontal
distance of fifty thousand feet (50,000') from the beginning of the approach
surface. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-4: AIRPORT ZONE HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created
by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit herein
established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
   A.   Precision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: Slopes fifty feet (50')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation
as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand
feet (10,000') along the extended runway centerline. Then slopes forty feet
(40') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the first ten thousand feet (10,000') and extending to a
horizontal distance of forty thousand feet (40,000') along the extended runway
centerline.
   B.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Larger Than Utility
Runway): Slopes thirty four feet (34') outward for each foot upward beginning
at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to
a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') along the extended runway
centerline.
   C.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone (Utility Aircraft): Slopes
twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at
the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal
distance of five thousand feet (5,000') along the extended runway centerline.
   D.   Visual Runway Approach Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each
foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000')
along the extended runway centerline.
   E.   Transitional Zone: Slopes seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the airport elevation. In addition to the foregoing, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface and
extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision
instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are
established height limits sloping seven feet (7') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface and
extending a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000') measured at
ninety degree (90°) angles to the extended runway centerline.
   F.   Horizontal Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
airport elevation.
   G.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   H.   Airport Critical Zone: Established at one hundred fifty feet (150')
above the airport elevation. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-5: COMPATIBLE LAND USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning Districts: For the purpose
of regulating the development of noise sensitive land uses; to promote
compatibility between the airport and the surrounding land uses; to protect the
airport from incompatible development; and to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of property users, the controlled area of Colorado Plains
Regional Airport is divided into airport compatible land use overlay zoning
districts. The airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts established
herein shall be known as:
 
Off Airport Land Use Zone Number Zoning District Name
1                                Runway protection zone
2                                Inner safety zone
3                                Inner turning zone
4                                Outer turning zone
5                                Sideline safety zone
6                                Traffic pattern zone
 
   B.   Off Airport Land Use Drawing:
      1.   The boundaries of the airport compatible land use overlay zoning
districts set out herein are delineated upon the Colorado Plains Regional
Airport off airport land use drawing. The off airport land use drawing is
adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as fully as if the off
airport land use drawing were set forth herein in detail.
      2.   Three (3) original, official, and identical copies of the off
airport land use drawing reflecting the boundaries of the airport compatible
land use overlay zoning districts of the town are hereby adopted and the board
of trustees acting through the mayor of the town are hereby authorized to sign
and attest each map as the official off airport land use drawing and such maps
shall be filed and maintained as follows:
         a.   One copy shall be filed for permanent record in the office of the
town clerk-administrator and shall be designated as exhibit D. This copy shall
not be changed in any manner.
         b.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the planning commission
and shall be designated as exhibit E. The planning commission shall maintain
this copy by posting thereon all subsequent changes and amendments.
         c.   One copy shall be filed in the office of the airport manager and
shall be designated as exhibit F.
   C.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zoning District Boundaries:
      1.   The airport compatible land use overlay zoning district boundary
lines shown on the official off airport land use drawing shall be located and
delineated along contour lines established for Colorado Plains Regional
Airport. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the airport
compatible land use overlay zoning districts as shown on the official map, the
following rules shall apply:
         a.   Boundaries shall be scaled from the nearest runway end shown on
the map.
         b.   Boundaries shall be scaled from the nearest physical feature
shown on the map.
         c.   Boundaries may be scaled from the nearest platted lot line as
shown on the map.
         d.   Distances not specifically indicated on the original off airport
land use drawing shall be determined by a scaled measurement on the map.
      2.   Where physical features on the ground differ from the information
shown on the official off airport land use drawing or when there arises a
question as to how or where a parcel of property is zoned and such questions
cannot be resolved by the application of subsection C1 of this section, the
property shall be considered to be classified as the most restrictive airport
compatible land use overlay zoning district.
      3.   Where a parcel of land lies within more than one airport compatible
land use overlay zoning district, the zone within which each portion of the
property is located shall apply individually to each portion of the
development.
   D.   Use Of Land And Buildings:
      1.   Within the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts as
defined herein, no land shall hereafter be used and no structure or other
object shall hereafter be erected, altered, converted, or modified other than
for those compatible land uses permitted by underlying comprehensive zoning
districts, as specified in this code. Additional land uses are prohibited in
the airport compatible land use overlay zoning districts, regardless of
underlying zoning, as set forth in the land use compatibility table included in
subsection F of this section.
      2.   Where any use of prohibited land and buildings set forth in
subsection D1 of this section conflicts with any use of land and buildings set
forth in this code, as an allowed use on the zoning district map, this chapter
shall apply.
      3.   This subsection does not apply to property within the official
boundaries of the airport.
      4.   Where specified on the airport compatible land use table in
subsection F of this section, the property owner shall dedicate, in advance of
receiving a building permit, an aviation clear zone easement to the town. The
purpose of this easement shall be to establish a maximum height restriction on
the use of property and to hold the public harmless for any damages caused by
noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles, or other effects that may
be caused by the operation of aircraft landing at, taking off from, or
operating on or at public airport facilities.
   E.   Additional Land Use Regulations:
      1.   Within the town, the more restrictive of this code or subsection D1
of this section, shall apply to the development of all property covered by the
off airport land use drawing.
      2.   On property within the off airport land use drawing jurisdiction,
but outside the jurisdictional limits of the town, subsection D1 of this
section shall apply to formulate land use recommendations or responses to land
use comment requests from other jurisdictions.
      3.   When a provision of this section conflicts with any airport height
hazard restrictions, the most restrictive provision shall apply.
      4.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or other
provisions of this code, no use may be made of land, water, or structures
within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create
electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication
between the airport and aircraft; make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others; or result in glare in the eyes of pilots
using the airport; impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; create
bird strike hazards; or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the
landing, taking off, or flight operations of aircraft utilizing the airport.
      5.   When a subdivision plat is required for any property within an
airport compatible land use overlay zoning district or within an area shown on
the FAR part 77 airspace drawing for Colorado Plains Regional Airport, the
property owner shall dedicate an aviation hazard easement to the town over and
across that property. This easement shall establish a height restriction on the
use of the property and hold the public harmless from any damages caused by
noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles, or other effects that may
be caused by the operation of aircraft taking off, landing, or operating on or
near the Colorado Plains Regional Airport.
   F.   Land Use Compatibility Table: The following table shall apply:
LAND USE COMPATIBILITY TABLE
P - Permitted, C - Conditional, X - Not Allowed
Colorado Runway                 Inner
Plains   Protection Inner       Turning Outer        Sideline    Traffic
Regional Zone       Safety Zone Zone    Turning Zone Safety Zone Pattern Zone
Airport
Colorado Plains  Runway     Inner       Inner   Outer   Sideline    Traffic
Regional Airport Protection Safety Zone Turning Turning Safety Zone Pattern
                 Zone                   Zone    Zone                Zone
Residential:                                                    
  Single-family,
  nursing homes,
 multi-family,  X          X           C 1,3   C3,4    X           C3
  apartments,
  condominiums
  Transient
 lodging,       X          X           C1,3    C3,4    X           C3
  motels, hotels
Public:
 Parking and    X          C5          P       P       P           P
  cemeteries
  Schools,
 libraries,     X          X           C4      C4      X           C3
  churches
Commercial/
industrial:
  Airport
 revenue        X          P           P       P       P           P
  producing
  enterprises
  Offices,
  retail trades,
  light
  industrial,
 general        X          C6          C3,4    C3,4    C6          P
  manufacturing,
  utilities,
  extractive
  industry
Agricultural and
recreational:
 Amphitheaters  X          X           X       X       X           C3
 Cropland       P          P           P       C2      P           P
  Livestock
  breeding,
  zoos, golf
 courses,       X          C6          P       P       P           P
  riding
  stables, water
  recreation
 Open space     P          P           P       P       P           P
  Outdoor
 spectator      X          X           C1,3    C1,3,4  X           X
  sports, parks,
  playgrounds
 
Conditions:
   1.    If allowed, avigation easements and disclosure must be required as a
condition of development. Limit residential density to 1 unit per 5 acres.
Limit commercial density to 25 people per acre.
   2.    Any structures associated with uses allowed in the 65 Ldn noise
contour must be located outside the 65 Ldn noise contour.
   3.    If no reasonable alternative exists, use should be located as far from
extended centerline as possible. Avigation easement should be required as a
condition of development.
   4.    If allowed, disclosure of airport proximity must be required as a
condition of development. An avigation easement should be considered based on
proximity to runway centerline. Limit residential density to 1 unit per 5
acres. Limit commercial density to 40 people per acre inside buildings and 75
people per acre outside.
   5.    Transportation facilities in the 65 Ldn noise contour (i.e., roads,
railroads, waterways) must be configured to comply with FAR part 77
requirements.
   6.    Disclosure of airport proximity should be required as a condition of
development, Limit density to 5 people per acre.
Note: All facilities should be configured to comply with FAR part 77
requirements.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof and is
diligently prosecuted. Nonconforming land uses existing as of the effective
date hereof may be modified such that: 1) only existing structures may be
enlarged or expanded; 2) that they do not result in any greater violation of
height restrictions; and 3) a variance in accordance with subsection 10-5-7D of
this chapter is obtained.
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the town to indicate to the
operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of the Colorado Plains Regional Airport. (Ord. 473,
11-1-2004)
10-5-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections A1 and A2
of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the regulating use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. A federal aviation administration
(FAA) form 7460-1, "Notice Of Proposed Construction Or Alteration", shall
accompany each application. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in
accordance with subsection D of this section.
      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the approach zone, transition
zone, horizontal zone, and conical zone, no permit shall be required by this
chapter for any tree or structure less than two hundred feet (200') above
ground level which is also lower than an imaginary surface extending outward
and upward at a slope of one hundred feet (100') horizontal for each one foot
(1') vertical beginning at the closest point of the closest runway.
      2.   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration of
any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits
established by this chapter.
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of any obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof, or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the town determines
that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more than eighty
percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from this chapter.
   D.   Variances:
      1.   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, permit the growth of any tree, or use property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the board of
adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance
shall be accompanied by a determination from the FAA as to the effect of a
proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient
use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed only when it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result
in unnecessary hardship and that the requested relief, if granted, will not be
contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation,
will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this
chapter.
      2.   Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of
this chapter may be considered by the board of adjustment unless a copy of the
application has been furnished to the town of Akron and Washington County for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the town and county
do not respond to the application within fifteen (15) days after receipt, the
board of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny the application.
   E.   Obstruction Marking And Lighting: Any permit or variance granted may,
if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter
and to be reasonable under the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and
maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as condition may
require in accordance with FAA provisions. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the town to administer and enforce the regulations
prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the
town upon a form published for that purpose. Applications required by this
chapter to be submitted to the town shall be promptly considered and granted or
denied. Application for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the town. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-9: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: The board of adjustment shall
continue to act pursuant to title 11, chapter 3 of this code and any other such
ordinances and statutes as may be applicable.
   B.   Membership And Terms: As set forth in section 11-3-1 of this code, the
board of adjustment shall consist of members appointed by the mayor with the
approval of the board of trustees. Each member shall serve for a term of three
(3) years until a successor is duly appointed and qualified.
   C.   Powers: The jurisdiction of the board of adjustment is hereby extended
to include and exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the town in the enforcement of this chapter;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter;
and
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances requested under this chapter.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals To Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
town made in the administration of this chapter may appeal to the board of
adjustment.
      2.   All appeals hereunder must be taken within thirty (30) days from the
date of the ruling by the town, by filing with the town a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The town shall forthwith transmit to the board
of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      3.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the town certifies to the board of adjustment, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in
the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the town cause imminent peril to
life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by the
order of the board of adjustment on notice to the town and on due cause shown.
      4.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or attorney.
      5.   The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances.
   B.   Appeals From Board Of Adjustment: Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer
affected by any decision of the board of adjustment may appeal as provided by
the ordinances of the town and the statutes of the state of Colorado. (Ord.
473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-11: CONFLICTS; MORE STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS GOVERN:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirements shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 473, 11-1-2004)
10-5-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter or of any regulation,
order, or ruling promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall be punished for
each violation as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day during which such a violation occurs shall be a
separate offense.
(Ord. 473, 11-1-2004; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 10
SHIPPING CONTAINERS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Definitions
10-6-2: Residential Zone As A Permanent Use
10-6-3: Special Review; Variance
10-6-4: Commercial And Industrial Zone As A Permanent Use
10-6-5: Self-Storage Facilities Using Cargo Containers For Permanent Use
10-6-6: Temporary Use Of Containers In Residential, Commercial, And Industrial
Zones
10-6-7: Permanent Use Of Temporary Storage Containers
10-6-8: Previously Placed Containers
10-6-9: Violations; Penalties
10-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY: Property zoned as business and commercial
or industrial.
PARCEL: Any lot or contiguous group of lots owned by the same person, persons,
or entity.
PORTABLE/RENTAL CONTAINER BUSINESS: A business that leases or sells containers
that are transported to another site.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Property zoned as AA Residence, A Residence, B Residence,
C Residence, Ranchette, or mobile home park.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: Real property designed for renting or leasing
individual storage space to occupants for storing and removing personal
property. Not a public warehouse.
SEMI-TRUCK TRAILER: A mobile trailer towed by a truck or tractor, including dry
van trailers and refrigerated van trailers, with or without a chassis, axles,
and wheels. Includes box trailers. (Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
SHIPPING CONTAINERS: Detachable prefabricated reusable containers intended for
transporting cargo, commonly known as cargo containers, storage containers,
transport containers (truck, rail, or marine cargo containers), or Conex.
Shipping containers are self-contained without axles or wheels. Shipping
containers may be allowed as buildings in the Town of Akron, subject to the
requirements and conditions contained in this chapter 6.
SLAB: A flat and solid foundation constructed of concrete or similar material,
typically used as a base for the placement of shipping containers or other
structures within the Town of Akron. Slabs provide stability and support,
ensuring the proper placement and securement of containers on properties
subject to the regulations outlined herein.
10-6-2: RESIDENTIAL ZONE AS A PERMANENT USE:
   A single shipping container is allowed in all residential zones for
permanent use subject to the conditions set forth in this section
10-6-2. Failure to comply with any of the conditions, in the sole subjective
discretion of the town manager or their designee, shall be grounds for
immediate revocation of any permit issued under subsection (K) of this Section
10-6-2.
   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and stable
surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).
   B.   Each residential zone permits up to three (3) accessory buildings,
including a garage. Only one (1) container is allowed, and shall be counted as
one (1) accessory building.
   C.   Limit of one (1) container per lot, unless under a building permit for
habitation or attachment to a permanent structure is obtained from the town.
   D.   Shipping container must be on the same lot as the principal structure
and included in lot coverage calculation of open and built space as specified
in the Akron Municipal Code.
   E.   Stacking of shipping containers is prohibited unless permitted for
habitation. No other materials may be stacked on shipping containers except for
optional roofs.
   F.   All structures, including shipping containers, must be finished neatly
and resemble or be compatible with principal structures.
   G.   Shipping container placement requires approval from the building
inspector and must not impair driver visibility.
   H.   Shipping containers must be placed at a distance from the street equal
to or greater than the primary structure's setback.
   I.   All shipping containers placed within a residential zone must be
screened from public rights-of-way and adjacent properties, to provide a visual
barrier from the street/streets. A seventy-five percent (75%) screening
visibility, six (6) feet in height must be erected to screen the entire
container. Permitted forms of screening are permanent enclosures, using brick,
stone, or similar material; permanent fence or wall; landscaping and berming;
or any combination thereof. Chain-link fencing shall not to be used for
required screening. Containers are to be placed on the lot in a manner that
minimizes their visual impact on adjacent properties.
   J.   Shipping containers cannot be placed on vacant land in a residential
zone.
   K.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping container
size with their application.
   L.   If shipping containers are to be attached to each other or to another
structure, the permit application must include a site plan and foundation
details.
   M.   Moving an unattached shipping container requires a new building permit
application and town approval.
   N.   Semi-truck trailers are not allowed for storage, unless a temporary
permit is obtained from the town. Such temporary permit shall be limited to
thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-3: SPECIAL REVIEW; VARIANCE:
   Special review may permit more than one (1) container in residential zones,
subject to approval from the Town Board of Adjustment, and subject to the
following conditions:
   A.   Applications for review must be submitted with a building permit at
least thirty (30) days before scheduled placement.
   B.   Shipping containers must be placed a minimum of three (3) feet apart,
unless permanently attached.
   C.   Approval is valid for one (1) year, after the permit is void.
10-6-4: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONE AS A PERMANENT USE:
   Up to three (3) shipping containers are allowed in commercial and industrial
zones for permanent use subject to the conditions set forth in this Section
10-6-4. Failure to comply with any of the conditions, in the sole subjective
discretion of the Town Manager of their designee, shall be grounds for
immediate revocation of any permit issued under subsection (J) of this Section
10-6-4.
   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and stable
surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).
   B.   Each commercial and industrial zone permits up to three (3) accessory
buildings, including a garage. Three (3) shipping containers are allowed,
counted as one (1) accessory building, per container.
   C.   Limit of three (3) shipping containers per lot, unless under a building
permit for habitation or attachment to a permanent structure.
   D.   Shipping containers must be on the same lot as the principal structure
and included in lot coverage calculation.
   E.   Stacking of shipping containers is prohibited unless permitted for
habitation. No other materials may be stacked on containers except for optional
roofs.
   F.   All structures, including shipping containers, must be finished neatly
and resemble or be compatible with principal structures.
   G.   Shipping container placement requires approval from the building
inspector and must not impair driver visibility.
   H.   Shipping containers must be placed at a distance from the street equal
to or greater than the primary structure's setback.
   I.   Shipping containers placed on vacant land must be placed on the rear
half of the property, as determined by the town. Containers must be the same
color if multiple containers are placed on a vacant lot.
   J.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping container
size with their application.
   K.   If shipping containers are to be attached to each other or to another
structure, the permit application must include a site plan and foundation
details.
   L.   Moving an unattached shipping container requires a new building permit
application and town approval.
   M.   Semi-truck trailers are not allowed for storage, unless a temporary
permit is obtained from the town. Such temporary permit shall be limited to
thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-5: SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES USING CARGO CONTAINERS FOR PERMANENT USE:
   In zones that allow self-storage as a use by right, more than three (3)
shipping containers may be allowed for self-storage businesses, subject to the
conditions set forth in this section
10-6-5. Failure to comply with any of the conditions, in the sole subjective
discretion of the town manager or their designee, shall be grounds for
immediate revocation of any permit issued under subsection H. of this section
10-6-5.
   A.   The shipping container shall be placed on a flat, level, and stable
surface (e.g., slab, footings, hard-packed soil).
   B.   Shipping containers must not be stacked.
   C.   No additional materials may be stacked on top of shipping containers,
except for an optional roof, which must be built in accordance with the other
requirements of the Akron Municipal Code, including its adopted building code.
   D.   Shipping containers must resemble each other and must be the same
color.
   E.   Shipping containers must be placed only in approved designated areas,
with approval obtained of the building inspector before installation.
   F.   Shipping containers shall not be placed so as to impede the visual
safety of drivers from the road.
   G.   If more than one (1) shipping container is placed on the same lot, each
shipping container must be positioned a minimum of three (3) feet apart from
each other to ensure safety. Shipping containers placed closer than three (3)
feet must be permanently attached to each other. No variance from this
requirement shall be allowed.
   H.   A building permit is required for shipping container placement.
Applicants must provide a plat showing lot dimensions and shipping container
size with their application.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-6: TEMPORARY USE OF CONTAINERS IN RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL
ZONES:
   Temporary use of shipping containers is permitted in all zones, subject to
the following conditions:
   A.   Temporary Use For Loading, Unloading, Or Construction Purposes: Up to
three (3) shipping containers are allowed on residential, commercial, and
industrial properties for a temporary period not exceeding sixty 60 days,
specifically for loading and unloading household contents or for construction
purposes. The following conditions apply:
      1.   A temporary permit must be obtained from the town clerk's office at
least fifteen (15) days prior to placing any shipping container.
      2.   Shipping containers shall not be situated closer than five (5) feet
to any side or rear lot line, and at least fifteen (15) feet from the front lot
line.
      3.   For safety reasons, shipping containers shall not be placed on any
street or alley unless a temporary permit is first obtained through the town
clerk's office. The town clerk has sole discretion to deny a request for
temporary permit if, in the town clerk's sole subjective discretion, the
requested placement of a shipping container in a street or alley would be
unsafe.
   B.   Temporary Placement On Construction Sites: Up to three (3) shipping
containers may be temporarily placed on a construction site in all zones for
storage related to an active construction or remodeling project, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   A building permit must be obtained for the construction site, and
the permit must remain valid. Shipping containers shall be removed promptly
once construction is completed or when the building permit expires, whichever
occurs first. A separate sixty (60) day permit shall not be required.
      2.   A temporary permit for shipping container placement must be obtained
from the town clerk's office.
      3.   Shipping containers shall not be placed on any street or alley
unless required by the town.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-7: PERMANENT USE OF TEMPORARY STORAGE CONTAINERS:
   A business operating within the Town of Akron that utilizes shipping
containers for their operations, and regularly moves shipping containers on and
off its property for construction or other business purposes, the shipping
containers may maintain such shipping containers at their business location,
with a certificate of exemption from the town clerk's office. The town clerk
shall have discretion to grant or deny any request for a certificate of
exemption.
   Upon issuance of the certificate of exemption, the business is permitted to
use the container in accordance with the zoning regulations applicable to their
property. If the business ceases operations the certificate of exemption shall
be considered expired, and any shipping containers must be removed from the
property. The town clerk reserves the right to revoke any certificate of
exemption issued hereunder at the town clerk's discretion.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-8: PREVIOUSLY PLACED CONTAINERS:
   All shipping containers placed within the Town of Akron prior to the
effective date of this chapter are exempt from its requirements. However, any
relocation, movement, or change in the character of any previously placed
shipping containers shall require town approval and compliance with the
requirements of this chapter 6.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
10-6-9: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to place or maintain any shipping container within the town, or
cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of this
chapter 6, Title 10 of the Akron Municipal Code, or in violations of any other
ordinance of the town.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions of this
chapter 6, Title 10 of the Akron Municipal Code shall severally for each and
every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each day that a violation occurs or
that a prohibited condition is maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Nuisance; Removal Of Prohibited Condition: Any shipping container
placed within the town in violation of this
chapter 6, Title 10 of the Akron Municipal Code is hereby declared a nuisance,
which may be abated pursuant to
chapter 1, Title 5 of the Akron Municipal Code. The application of the above
penalty or penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of any
prohibited condition.
(Ord. 594, 10-11-2024)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
The regulations of this title shall be for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of Akron, Colorado, by: the lessening of congestions in the
streets and roads or reducing the waste of excessive amounts of roads; securing
safety from fire and other dangers; providing adequate light and air;
classification of land uses and the distribution of land development and
utilization; protection of tax base; securing economy in governmental
expenditures; and the protection of urban and nonurban development. (1997 Code
§17.04.010)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is authorized by Colorado Revised Statutes title 31, article 23, as
amended, and is declared to be in accordance with all provisions of these
statutes. (1997 Code §17.04.020)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and words in the plural include the singular; the
word "building" includes the word "structure"; the word "shall" is mandatory.
The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or portion of main building, the use
of which is incidental to that of the main building or dwelling.
ALLEY: A minor public thoroughfare upon which the rear of building lots
generally abuts and which is generally used for service purposes only.
APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or portion thereof designated for or containing
both dwelling units and six (6) or more guestrooms or suites of rooms.
AUTO COURT OR COTTAGE CAMP OR MOTEL: A group of dwellings of not less than two
hundred (200) square feet floor space per unit, facing a common court, place or
street, and designed for or used temporarily for automobile tourists or
transients, with adequate off street parking space for each unit.
AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA: An open area other than a street used for the display or
rental of new or used automobiles to be displayed, sold or rented on the
premises.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, obsolete or wrecked
vehicles or their parts, but not including the incidental storage of damaged
vehicles in connection with the operation of a repair garage.
BASEMENT HOUSE: A dwelling or structure constructed partly or wholly below the
grade level of any property.
BOARDING, ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE: A building other than a motel where lodging
and/or meals for five (5) or more persons are provided for compensation.
CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the junction of a front street and a side street.
CURB CUTS: A cut in the curb line for passage of vehicles, not to exceed twelve
feet (12') in width for single drive and thirty feet (30') for double drive.
DRIVE-IN BUSINESS: A place of business where persons are served in automobiles
from a refreshment stand, restaurant, food store and the like.
DWELLING: A structure used as a residence containing not less than a living
room, bedroom, kitchen and a completely equipped bathroom containing a toilet
and a bathtub or shower, lavatory, all connected to the sewer and supplied with
town water and shall also include a "modular unit" or "sectional home" as
defined in this section.
ERECT: Means and includes moving of existing buildings.
FRONT STREET: A street on which the lots of a town block, or subdivision
thereof, generally front.
HOTEL: A building occupied as a more or less temporary abiding place of
individuals who are lodgers with or without meals for compensation, and in
which there are more than ten (10) sleeping rooms, usually occupied singly, and
in which no provision is made for cooking in any individual apartment or room.
JUNKYARD: The use of more than two hundred (200) square feet of area of any lot
or site for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals
or other scrap materials or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of
automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory building
together with such open spaces as are required under this title and having its
principal frontage on a street or officially approved place.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A preconstructed building unit, or combination of
preconstructed building units, without motive power, designed and commonly used
for residential occupancy by persons in either temporary or permanent location,
which unit or units are manufactured in a factory or at a location other than
the residential site of the completed home. After December 31, 2024, no
manufactured homes built prior to 2006 may be brought into the Town of Akron.
Manufactured homes permanently placed within the Town of Akron after December
31, 2024 shall have perimeter skirting between the ground and the manufactured
home floor within thrity (30) days of their placement in the Town.
MODULAR UNIT: A manufactured home, built prior to June 1, 1976, which is
constructed off-site with a permanent chassis designed for over the road
transportation and delivered to the home site in one (1) or more sections.
Mobile homes are not allowed anywhere in the Town of Akron unless already
located in the Town of Akron prior to January 1, 2025.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or land lawfully occupied by a use that does not
conform with the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PORCH: A roofed or unroofed open structure projecting from the front, side or
rear wall of a building. For the purpose of this title, a porch is considered a
part of the principal building and is not permitted to extend into any required
yards.
REAR YARD: A yard unoccupied except by an accessory building as hereinafter
permitted, extending across the full width of the lot between the rear line of
the building and the rear line of the lot.
SECTIONAL HOME: A dwelling made of two (2) modular units, factory fabricated
and transported to the homesite where they are put on a foundation and joined
to make a single house.
SELF-STORAGE FACILITY: A place of business operated for the purpose of renting
or leasing individual storage space to occupants who are given access to a
self-storage space for the sole purpose of storage and removing personal
property. Self-storage facilities may be operated as a use by right in areas
zoned industrial.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the property line and front
line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding steps.
SIDE YARD: A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the street line to the rear of the lot.
SIGN: Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication produced in
whole or in part by the construction, erection, affixing or placing of a
structure on any land or on any other structure, or produced by painting on or
pasting or placing any printed, lettered, pictured, figured or colored
materials on any building, structure or surface; provided, however, that signs
placed or erected by the town or the state for the purpose of showing street
names or traffic directions or regulations or for other municipal or government
purposes shall not be included herein nor shall this include signs which are
part of the architectural design of the building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
STORY, HALF: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two (2) opposite, exterior walls, are not more than two feet
(2') above the floor of such story.
STREET: A public thoroughfare fifty feet (50') or more in width and not less
than forty feet (40') between curbs.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
substantially permanent location on the soil, but not including utility poles
or garbage or trash disposal units. A manufactured home that is transported to
its site and permanently affixed to the ground, attached to a permanent
concrete foundation around the perimeter, so that it is no longer capable of
being drawn over the public highways, and which has become real property as
described in Colorado Revised Statutes section 38-29-114(2), and which
manufactured home is of substantially equal value to other improvements in the
immediate neighborhood, shall be considered as a structure.
TEMPORARY: Less than twelve (12) months.
YARD: An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, which
is on the same lot with a building, except as otherwise provided herein.
(1997 Code § 17.04.030; amd. Ord. 598, 11-15-2024; Ord. 599, 11-15-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Enforcement
11-2-2: Interpretation And Conflict Of Provisions
11-2-3: Boundaries Of Districts
11-2-4: Permit Requirements; Fees
11-2-5: Certificate Of Occupancy
11-2-6: Inspections And Tests
11-2-7: Changes And Amendments
11-2-8: Notice Of Filing Application For Variance
11-2-1: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to see that this title is
enforced. Appeal from the decision of the building inspector may be made to the
board of adjustment as provided in section
11-3-3 of this title. (1997 Code §17.48.120)
11-2-2: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals, order, convenience, happiness, prosperity and general welfare. It is
not intended by this title to interfere with, or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however,
that wherever this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, regulations or
permits, or by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this title
shall govern. (1997 Code §17.48.090)
11-2-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the building zone map attached to the ordinance codified
in this title and made a part of this title, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the designation on the map attached to the ordinance codified
in this title and made a part of this title indicates that the various
districts are approximately bounded by street or alley lines, the streets shall
be construed to be the boundary of such district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks, and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines; and where the
designation on the map attached to the ordinance codified in this title and
made a part of this title indicates that the various districts are
approximately bounded by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the
boundary of such district, unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the
map. (1997 Code §17.48.100)
11-2-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to construct or alter any building or
structure in the town, excepting fences, when the cost of such construction
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), or where the effect of such construction
or alteration is to enlarge the capacity or affect the bearing walls or the
roof thereof, without having first secured a permit therefor. (1997 Code
§17.48.010)
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for such permits shall be made to
the office of the town clerk and should be accompanied by plans and
specifications in duplicate showing the work to be done. Such plans shall be
verified by the signature of both the owner of the premises and the contractor
in charge of the operation. (1997 Code §17.48.020)
   C.   Plan Approval With Application: Such applications with plans shall be
referred to the building inspector, who shall examine same to determine whether
or not the proposed construction or alteration will comply with the ordinance
provisions relative thereto. Upon approval, one set of plans shall be returned
to the applicant with a permit and the other shall be retained by the building
inspector. No permit shall be issued until after approval of the plans. (1997
Code §17.48.030)
   D.   Variations To Plans And Specifications: It is unlawful to vary
materially from the submitted plans and specifications unless the variations
are submitted in an amended plan to the building inspector and approved by him.
(1997 Code §17.48.040)
   E.   Plat Required: Applications for building permits shall be accompanied
by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot
to be built upon, the size of the building to be erected, and such other
information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of these
regulations. A careful record of such applications shall be kept in the office
of the building inspector. (1997 Code §17.48.080)
   F.   Permit Fees: The fees for building permits shall be set by resolution
of the board of trustees. (1997 Code §17.48.060; amd. 2016 Code)
11-2-5: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required; Issuance: Certificate of occupancy for the use of
vacant land or the change in the use of land as herein provided shall be
applied for before any such land shall be occupied or used, and a certificate
of occupancy shall be issued within ten (10) days after the application has
been made, provided such use is in conformity with the provisions of this
title.
   B.   Statement Of Compliance; Records Kept:
      1.   Certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or proposed
use of a building or land, complies with all the building and health laws and
ordinances and with the provisions of this title.
      2.   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the building inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenant's interest in the building affected.
      3.   No fee shall be charged for an original certificate applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit; for all other
certificates or for copies of the original certificate there shall be a fee
charged of one dollar ($1.00) each.
   C.   Excavation Permit: No permit for excavation for any building shall be
issued before application has been made for certificate of occupancy. (1997
Code §17.48.070)
11-2-6: INSPECTIONS AND TESTS:
The building inspector shall make or cause to be made such inspections as are
necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this title, and shall
make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to be used for the
purpose of seeing that they comply with the provisions of this title. (1997
Code §17.48.050)
11-2-7: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Procedure Outlined: The board of trustees may, from time to time, on
its own motion or on petition, after public notice and hearing as provided by
law, amend, supplement or change the boundaries or regulations herein or
subsequently established. Whenever the owners of fifty percent (50%) or more of
the frontage in any district or part thereof present a petition duly signed and
acknowledged to the board of trustees, requesting an amendment, supplement or
change of the regulation prescribed for such district or part thereof, it shall
be the duty of the board of trustees to vote upon such petition within ninety
(90) days after the filing by the petitioners with the board of trustees; in
the case of a protest to the proposed amendment, supplement or change be
presented duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%),
or more, either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or
those immediately adjacent in the area thereof, extending one hundred feet
(100') from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment or change
shall not be passed except by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board of trustees.
   B.   Publication Of Notice: Whenever under this section, it shall be
necessary to publish notice of public hearing in connection with changes or
amendments in the zoning regulations or zoning classification, the person or
persons applying for the change shall pay to the town the cost of the
publication. (1997 Code §17.48.110)
11-2-8: NOTICE OF FILING APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
A written notice of the filing of an application for a variance from the
application of the zoning regulations shall be sent by the town clerk to all
landowners on the same block and to all landowners whose land is adjacent to
the street of the property described in any such application. Notice shall be
sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall also be
posted at town hall in the same manner as notices of regular or special
meetings of the board of trustees. Notice shall be sent and shall be posted at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. In the event that adjacent
property is held in common ownership, notice shall be sent to the appropriate
homeowners' or condominium association. (Ord. 499, 2-7-2011)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Board Established; Terms; Meetings
11-3-2: Jurisdiction
11-3-3: Appeals; Notice
11-3-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; TERMS; MEETINGS:
   A.   Established; Membership; Terms: The board of adjustment is established.
The word "board", when used in this chapter, shall be construed to mean the
board of adjustment. The board shall consist of five (5) members and shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the board of trustees, each to be
appointed for a term of three (3) years, except that the board first appointed,
two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, two (2)
members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and one member for a
term of one year.
   B.   Quorum; Voting: The presence of three (3) members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum and when three (3) only are present, their unanimous vote
shall be required to make a decision.
   C.   Meetings; Rules Of Procedure: Meetings of the board shall be held at
the call of the chairman, the request of the building inspector or by any party
wishing to appeal the decision of the building inspector. The board shall adopt
its own rules of procedure and shall keep a record of its proceedings, showing
the action of each question considered.
   D.   Clerk Of Board: The town clerk shall act as clerk of the board. (Ord.
531, 9-1-2015)
11-3-2: JURISDICTION:
In specific cases, the board of adjustment may authorize by permit a variation
of the application of the use, height, and area district regulation herein
established in harmony with their general purpose and intent as follows:
   A.   Permit a temporary building for commerce or for industry in a residence
district which is incidental to a residential development, such permit to be
issued for not more than a period of one year.
   B.   Permit the erection and use of a building or the use of land in any
location for a public service corporation for public utility purpose which the
board admits reasonably necessary for the public convenience and welfare.
   C.   Interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry out
the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the building zone map, fixing
the several districts accompanying and made part of this title where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
building zone map aforesaid.
   D.   Where there are no practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of this title, the board of
adjustment shall have the power in passing upon appeals to vary or modify the
application of any of the regulations or provisions of this title relating to
use, construction or alterations of buildings or structures or the use of land
so that the spirit of this title shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done. (1997 Code §17.44.030)
11-3-3: APPEALS; NOTICE:
   A.   Appeal From Ruling Of Building Inspector: Appeal from the ruling of the
building inspector concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this title
may be made to the board of adjustment within thirty (30) days from the date of
the ruling by the building inspector. The applicant shall file with the
building inspector and with the board of adjustment a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The building inspector shall forthwith transmit
to the board all papers constituting the record from which the appealed action
was taken.
   B.   Appeals As To Class Of Certain Districts: When any district has been
classified or is about to be classified, the owners thereof may appeal to the
board for a higher classification. It shall be the duty of the board to
carefully examine all the facts and to determine all present usages which are
below the requirements of the higher class requested and the board shall have
authority to require the elimination or correction of any one, any part, or all
of the nonconforming usages as may be justified by the circumstances before
such higher classification is assigned to such district. (1997 Code §17.44.020)
   C.   Notice Sent And Posted: A written notice of an appeal to or an appeal
from the board of adjustment shall be sent by the town clerk to all landowners
on the same block and to all landowners whose land is adjacent to the street of
the property described in any such appeal. Notice shall be sent by first class
United States mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall also be posted at town hall
in the same manner as notices of regular or special meetings of the board of
trustees. Notice shall be sent and shall be posted at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing. In the event that adjacent property is held in common
ownership, notice shall be sent to the appropriate homeowners' or condominium
association. (Ord. 499, 2-7-2011)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL DESIGN AND USE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Nonconforming Uses
11-4-2: Area Exceptions
11-4-3: Akron-Washington County Airport Clear Zone
11-4-4: Modular Units And Sectional Homes
11-4-5: Basement Houses And Moving Houses
11-4-6: Setback On Corner Lots
11-4-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing Large Residences: In the A residence district, large
residences which exist at the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in
this title may be used as two-family dwellings; provided, however, that the
provisions of this title as to the lot area per family and the floor area per
dwelling are observed.
   B.   Existing Land Uses: The lawful use of land existing at the time of the
passage of said ordinance, although such use does not conform to the provisions
hereof, may be continued, but if such nonconforming use is discontinued, any
future use of the land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
title.
   C.   Existing Use Of Buildings: The lawful use of a building or part
thereof, existing at the time of the passage of said ordinance, may be
continued although such use does not conform to the provisions hereof, and such
use may be extended throughout the building, provided no structural
alterations, except those required by law or ordinance, are made therein.
   D.   Changing Building Use: Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has
been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall
not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use. When a building, the use of
which does not conform to the use regulations of this title, is damaged by
fire, explosion, flood, act of God, or a public enemy, to the extent of more
than seventy five percent (75%) of its fair value, it shall not be restored
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
situated.
   E.   Reconstruction Of Church Buildings: Nothing in this section, however,
shall prevent the reconstruction of church buildings existing at the time of
the passage of said ordinance. (1997 Code §17.40.010)
11-4-2: AREA EXCEPTIONS:
The area regulations in the various districts shall be subject to the following
exceptions, and regulations:
   A.   In the C residence district, a living room and bedroom may be combined.
   B.   Building on through lots and running from street to street may waive
the requirements of rear yard by furnishing required open space in lieu of such
required rear yard.
   C.   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest
point to the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary projection of sills,
cornices, ornamental features and eaves; provided, however, that none of the
above projections shall project into a court more than six inches (6") nor into
a minimum side yard more than twenty four inches (24").
   D.   No cornice shall project over the street line more than five percent
(5%) of the width of such street, and shall in no case project more than four
feet (4'); provided, further, no projection, sign or fixture shall interfere
with the proper driving or parking of legal vehicles.
   E.   An accessory building may occupy not more than thirty percent (30%) of
the rear yard, and shall not be closer to the main building than seven feet
(7') unless it is made a portion of the main building.
   F.   No yard, court or other open space provided about any building for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of these regulations shall be used as
a yard, court or other open space for another building. (1997 Code §17.40.020)
11-4-3: AKRON-WASHINGTON COUNTY AIRPORT CLEAR ZONE:
   A.   Akron-Washington County Airport Restriction: No structure will be
constructed on any land in the area of the Akron- Washington County Airport
which could be used for an incompatible land use. No structure shall be
permitted which in any way would interfere with the clear zone as established
and as same may be amended from time to time by federal aviation administration
rules and regulations.
   B.   Landfills And Treatment Plants Near Runway: No landfills or treatment
plants will be constructed within ten thousand feet (10,000') of any runway at
the airport. (1997 Code §17.40.030)
11-4-4: MODULAR UNITS AND SECTIONAL HOMES:
   A.   Modular Units: Any modular unit or sectional home which bears the
certificate from the state of Colorado, division of housing, that it is a
factory built unit and that it complies with the Colorado standards for factory
built construction shall be considered as a permanent structure and may be
placed in any location in any district within the town; provided, that it
complies with the required use, dwelling area, height, rear yard, side yard and
setback provisions of this title.
   B.   Mobile Homes: A mobile home which bears the certification from the
state of Colorado, division of housing, that it is a mobile home and is
constructed under mobile home construction standards of the state of Colorado,
and also any mobile home, modular unit or sectional home which does not bear
any certification from the state of Colorado shall be considered as a mobile
home and may be placed only within districts D, E or F. (1997 Code §17.40.040)
11-4-5: BASEMENT HOUSES AND MOVING HOUSES:
   A.   Basement Houses Prohibited: No "basement house", as defined in this
title, shall be erected in the town.
   B.   Moving Houses; Requirements:
      1.   No house, already constructed or partially constructed, shall be
moved into or within the town without the approval of the board of adjustment.
      2.   Before moving a house into the town, or from one lot to a different
lot within the town, application shall be made to the board of adjustment.
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by a detailed set of plans and
specifications of the finished house. (1997 Code §17.40.050)
11-4-6: SETBACK ON CORNER LOTS:
On all corner lots within all areas within the town, the following setback
regulations shall apply:
   A.   There shall be a forty two inch (42") setback from both corners for a
chainlink fence which shall be no more than forty eight inches (48") high.
   B.   Private fences shall have a forty two inch (42") setback from the curb
and an eleven foot (11') setback from the corner itself with a diagonal clear
space between the two (2) 11-foot setbacks.
   C.   Buildings will be placed and bushes and other vegetation will be
trimmed to allow the same clear view to motorists as provided in subsections A
and B of this section. (Ord. 460, 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Districts Established; Map; General Regulations
11-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; MAP; GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Districts Established; Annexations:
      1.   In order to regulate and restrict the location of trades, callings,
industries and location of buildings designated for specific uses, and in order
to regulate and limit the height of the buildings hereinafter erected or
structurally altered, to regulate and determine the area of yards and other
open spaces about buildings, the town is divided into major districts known as:
         AA residence district
         A residence district
         B residence district
         C residence district
         D business and commercial district
         E industrial district
         F mobile home park district
         R ranchette district
(1997 Code §17.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Provided, however, that any area annexed to the town after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section shall by such
annexation be automatically classified as an AA residence district; provided
further, that the petition for annexation may incorporate a request for a
different zoning and if the zoning request in the petition to annex is approved
by the town board in the annexing ordinance, the new zoning shall apply to the
area annexed. (1997 Code §17.08.010)
   B.   Map; Restrictions And Requirements: The town is divided into districts
as shown upon the map attached to the ordinance codified in this section, being
designated as the "building zone map", and the map and all notations,
references and other things shown thereon, shall be as much a part of this
title as if the matter and things set forth by the map were fully described
herein, except as hereinafter provided: (1997 Code §17.08.010; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered,
nor shall any building or premises be used for any purpose other than is
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located.
      2.   No building shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed in
height the limit herein established for any district in which such building is
located.
      3.   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that the yards or
other open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by this title, nor shall the
lot area per family be reduced in any manner except in conformity with the area
regulations established for the district in which such building is located.
      4.   No garage larger than a three (3) car garage shall be built in any
district without first being allowed through variance. The height of any garage
shall be appropriate to the adjacent home (i.e., single-story homes shall have
single-story garages, two-story homes may have two-story garages, etc.).
      5.   The primary entrance to the dwelling must face the street upon which
the address is based.
      6.   Covenants shall be required and must be presented before acceptance
of any subdivision plat or approval of any annexation plat.
      7.   Any variance which shall be granted by the board of adjustment
allowing for a nonconforming use shall be in writing, with specific provisions
included therein.
      8.   Any business granted by variance shall be subject to an annual fee,
to be set from time to time by the board of trustees in the policies of the
town. (1997 Code §17.08.010)
ARTICLE A. AA RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5A-2: Dwelling Area Per Family
11-5A-3: Height
11-5A-4: Rear Yard
11-5A-5: Side Yard
11-5A-6: Setback
11-5A-7: Corner Lots
11-5A-8: Lot Area
11-5A-9: Finish
11-5A-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided in this title, except for one
or more of the following uses:
   A.   One-family dwellings.
   B.   Schools (elementary and high).
   C.   Churches; provided, that before a new church may be constructed upon
the property, where no church was there before located, the written consent of
sixty percent (60%) of the persons owning property within three hundred feet
(300') of such location shall first be obtained.
   D.   Accessory buildings including one private garage which may be multiple
spaces when located not less than sixty feet (60') from the front property line
or a private garage within or attached to a dwelling.
   E.   Parks and playgrounds. (1997 Code §17.12.010)
11-5A-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:
The total dwelling area per family shall be not less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of living area above grade, excluding basement.
(1997 Code §17.12.020)
11-5A-3: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above foundations or basement. (1997
Code §17.12.030)
11-5A-4: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code
§17.12.040)
11-5A-5: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a building of not less than five
feet (5') in width. (1997 Code §17.12.050)
11-5A-6: SETBACK:
There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided, however,
that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of the frontage of
any block are developed with buildings having a predominant setback, no
building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall project beyond the
predominant setback line so established; provided further, that this regulation
shall not be interpreted so as to require a setback of more than fifty feet
(50'). (1997 Code §17.12.060)
11-5A-7: CORNER LOTS:
On corner lots, the front of the building shall comply with the setback
requirement of the street upon which the front of the building faces. The side
of the building shall be set back as per the requirements for the setback for
the front of the building. (1997 Code §17.12.070)
11-5A-8: LOT AREA:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a lot
area of not less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet per family. (1997 Code
§17.12.080)
11-5A-9: FINISH:
All structures, including accessory buildings or structures, shall be finished
in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other finish suitable for
the type of materials used in their construction. (1997 Code §17.12.090)
ARTICLE B. A RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5B-2: Dwelling Area Per Family
11-5B-3: Height
11-5B-4: Rear Yard
11-5B-5: Side Yard
11-5B-6: Setback
11-5B-7: Corner Lots
11-5B-8: Lot Area Per Family
11-5B-9: Finish
11-5B-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in this title, except for
one or more of the following uses:
   A.   Any use permitted in AA residence district.
   B.   The keeping of not more than two (2) roomers, boarders, convalescent
patients or tourists for compensation in a single-family dwelling.
   C.   Home occupations:
      1.   Customary home offices when situated in the same dwelling or garage;
provided, that the office is not used for a general practice, but only
occasionally in conjunction with a principal office elsewhere.
      2.   Computer based or telecommunications based businesses when all work
is done by telecommunications or satellite, and home visits by business
associates, clients or customers is only incidental and is not on a regular
basis.
      3.   Foster family care of not more than two (2) children simultaneously.
      4.   Home visits for all businesses allowed or granted shall be only
incidental to the operation of the business, with the exception of daycare,
homecare and private instruction, in which case home visits may be on a regular
basis, but only incidental; included shall be studio room use for music, voice,
dance, art, or academic instruction of not more than two (2) students at any
one time.
      5.   Daycare homes, staffed by occupant only, as permitted under Colorado
state regulations.
      6.   Single operator custom millinery, tailoring, sewing of fabric for
custom apparel and custom home furnishings and upholstering.
   D.   All home occupations permitted in subsection C of this section shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling or garage and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof and no others.
      2.   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
building for dwelling or garage purposes and shall not change the character
thereof.
      3.   Such office shall not constitute over fifty percent (50%) of the
first floor space, daycare homes excluded.
      4.   There shall be no advertising signs or other display or indications
of home occupation.
      5.   There shall be no retaining or wholesaling of stock, supplies or
products conducted on the premises.
      6.   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used
in the home occupation, nor any highly explosive, toxic or combustible
material.
      7.   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors,
heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      8.   There shall be no body or mechanical repair of motor vehicles, to
include any modification, assembly or painting of motor vehicles nor repair of
internal combustion engines.
      9.   Should any home occupation be granted by variance that includes
studios or rooms for instruction, it shall provide additional off street
parking adequate to accommodate all needs created by the home occupation.
      10.   The hours of such uses and such occupation and the manner of such
use and noise are not such as to interfere with the peace, quiet or dignity of
the neighborhood and the adjoining properties. (1997 Code §17.16.010)
11-5B-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:
The total dwelling area per family shall not be less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of living area above grade, excluding basement.
(1997 Code §17.16.020)
11-5B-3: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above the foundation or basement.
(1997 Code §17.16.030)
11-5B-4: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code
§17.16.040)
11-5B-5: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five feet
(5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt, structurally
altered, or extended along the same line, within the five foot (5') limit,
provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining property line than was the
original structure and provided it is completed within two (2) years of the
time the existing structure is removed or construction commenced. (1997 Code
§17.16.050)
11-5B-6: SETBACK:
There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided, however,
that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of the frontage of
any block are developed with buildings having a predominant setback, no
building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall project beyond the
predominant setback line so established; provided further, that this regulation
shall not be interpreted so as to require a setback of more than fifty feet
(50'). (1997 Code §17.16.060)
11-5B-7: CORNER LOTS:
On corner lots, the dwelling shall set back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
the front of the lot, subject to provisions in setback, as provided in section
11-5B-6 of this article, and no setback from the street side of the lot. (1997
Code §17.16.070)
11-5B-8: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a lot
area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet per family; provided,
however, that where a lot has less than herein required, as shown by the last
recorded sale at the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this
title, the lot may be occupied by not more than one family. (1997 Code
§17.16.080)
11-5B-9: FINISH:
All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be finished
in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other finish suitable for
the type of materials used in their construction. (1997 Code §17.16.090)
ARTICLE C. B RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5C-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5C-2: Dwelling Area Per Family
11-5C-3: Height
11-5C-4: Rear Yard
11-5C-5: Side Yard
11-5C-6: Setback
11-5C-7: Corner Lots
11-5C-8: Lot Area Per Dwelling
11-5C-9: Finish
11-5C-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered, unless otherwise provided for in this title, except for
one or more of the following uses:
   A.   Any use permitted in the A residence district.
   B.   Churches.
   C.   Two-family dwellings.
   D.   Home occupations. Customary home occupation of a physician, dentist or
other professional person or artist when situated in the same dwelling;
provided, that:
      1.   The office is conducted in conjunction with the use of a dwelling
unit as a home occupant.
      2.   The office is not used for a general practice of medicine, surgery,
dentistry, osteopathic or chiropractic treatment, but may be used for
consultation as an adjunct to a principal office located elsewhere.
      3.   The hours of such uses and such office and the manner of use and
noise are not such as to interfere with the peace, quiet or dignity of the
neighborhood and the adjoining properties.
   E.   Home occupations subject to the restrictions in subsection
11-5B-1D of this chapter (A residence district regulations):
      1.   Daycare homes for two (2) elder adults in addition to residents of
the dwelling.
      2.   Placard style window signs only are allowed and must be preapproved.
Size cannot exceed one point five feet by two feet (1.5' x 2') in size. (1997
Code §17.20.010)
11-5C-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:
The total dwelling area per family shall be not less than one thousand (1,000)
square feet measured on the outside walls. (1997 Code §17.20.020)
11-5C-3: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height nor two (2) stories above the foundation level or
basement. (1997 Code §17.20.030)
11-5C-4: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard not less than ten feet (10'). (1997 Code §17.20.040)
11-5C-5: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five feet
(5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt, structurally
altered, or extended along the same line, within the five foot (5') limit,
provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining property line than was the
original structure and provided it is completed within two (2) years of the
time the existing structure is removed or construction commenced. (1997 Code
§17.20.050)
11-5C-6: SETBACK:
There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20'); provided, however,
that where lots comprising twenty five percent (25%) or more of the frontage of
any block are developed with buildings having a predominant setback, no
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall project beyond the
predominant setback line so established; provided further, that this regulation
shall not be interpreted so as to require a setback of more than forty feet
(40'). (1997 Code §17.20.060)
11-5C-7: CORNER LOTS:
The regulations for the A residence district shall apply here. (1997 Code
§17.20.070)
11-5C-8: LOT AREA PER DWELLING:
Every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally altered shall provide a lot
area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet; provided, however, that
where a lot has less area than herein required, as shown by the last recorded
sale at the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this title, the
lot may be occupied by not more than one family. (1997 Code §17.20.080)
11-5C-9: FINISH:
All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be finished
in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other finish suitable for
the type of materials used in their construction. (1997 Code §17.20.090)
ARTICLE D. C RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5D-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5D-2: Dwelling Area Per Family
11-5D-3: Height
11-5D-4: Side Yard
11-5D-5: Setback
11-5D-6: Corner Lots
11-5D-7: Lot Area Per Family
11-5D-8: Parking
11-5D-9: Finish
11-5D-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided for in this title, except one or
more of the following uses:
   A.   Any use permitted in the B residence district.
   B.   Apartment houses.
   C.   Hotels.
   D.   Hospitals, clinics and professional and business offices.
   E.   Boarding and rooming houses.
   F.   Daycare centers and institutions of an educational, philanthropic or
eleemosynary nature.
   G.   Private clubs, fraternities, lodges, excepting those of which the chief
activity is a service customarily carried on as a business.
   H.   Accessory buildings and uses incident to any of the above uses when
located on the same lot and not involving the conduct of a business.
   I.   Mortuaries.
   J.   The keeping of not more than two (2) roomers, boarders, convalescent
patients or tourists for compensation in a single-family dwelling.
   K.   The selling of products and craftwork manufactured and created by the
occupant.
   L.   One operator beauty shops.
   M.   Fine arts studios.
   N.   All signs must be preapproved, and cannot exceed four feet by six feet
(4'x6') in size. (1997 Code §17.24.010)
11-5D-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:
The total dwelling area per family shall not be less than eight hundred (800)
square feet, measured on the outside walls. (1997 Code §17.24.020)
11-5D-3: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty feet
(40') or more than three (3) stories in height. (1997 Code §17.24.030)
11-5D-4: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a building not less than five feet
(5') in width, except that an existing structure may be rebuilt, structurally
altered, or extended along the same line, within the five foot (5') limit,
provided the structure is no closer to the adjoining property line than was the
original structure and provided it is completed within two (2) years of the
time the existing structure is removed or construction commenced; provided
further, that on a lot having a width of less than forty feet (40') as shown by
the last recorded sale, there shall be a side yard on each side of a building
of not less than three feet (3') in width, subject to the same conditions as to
rebuilding, structural alteration or extension. (1997 Code §17.24.040)
11-5D-5: SETBACK:
There shall be a setback of not less than twenty feet (20') subject to the
provision in regard to predominant setback in the B residence district. (1997
Code §17.24.050)
11-5D-6: CORNER LOTS:
The same as requirements for B residence district. (1997 Code §17.24.060)
11-5D-7: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:
For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family shall be
two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For apartment houses, the
minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred (500) square feet. (1997 Code
§17.24.070)
11-5D-8: PARKING:
For apartment houses, the owner shall provide off street parking for at least
one automobile for each family dwelling unit. (1997 Code §17.24.080)
11-5D-9: FINISH:
All structures, including accessory buildings and structures, shall be finished
in a neat and workmanlike manner by paint, stucco or other finish suitable for
the type of materials used in their construction. (1997 Code §17.24.090)
ARTICLE E. D BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5E-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5E-2: Height
11-5E-3: Side Yard
11-5E-4: Setback
11-5E-5: Lot Area Per Family
11-5E-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered unless otherwise provided for in this title, except for
one or more of the following uses:
   A.   Any use permitted in the C residence district.
   B.   Retail business stores and shops.
   C.   Banks, office buildings, studios and hotels.
   D.   Gasoline and oil service stations.
   E.   Restaurant, cafes, tearooms and other places serving food.
   F.   Theaters and amusement houses.
   G.   Personal offices, or service shops, such as barber, shoeshine, beauty
parlors.
   H.   Public buildings, assembly halls or auditoriums.
   I.   Baking confectionery, dressmaking, dyeing, laundry, tailoring,
upholstery, cleaning or other similar establishments, provided all foods or
other products manufactured or processed shall be sold at retail on the
premises; and further provided, that all such manufacturing or processing shall
be done on the premises.
   J.   Bus stations, garages, automobile sales rooms and parking lots, trailer
sales lots, used car lots, taxi stands.
   K.   Feed and seed stores.
   L.   Cottage camps or motels.
   M.   Retail cold storage locker plants, provided slaughtering activities
shall not be permitted.
   N.   Any similar lawful use which, in the opinion of the board of adjustment
is not objectionable to nearby property by reason of odor, dust, smoke fumes,
gas, noise or vibration, or is not hazardous to the health and property of the
surrounding area through danger of fire or explosion. (1997 Code §17.28.010)
11-5E-2: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty feet
(40') or three (3) stories in height. (1997 Code §17.28.020)
11-5E-3: SIDE YARD:
For business buildings, no side yard shall be required; but if provided, shall
be not less than five feet (5'). For residences, the side yard shall be the
same as required in the C residence district. (1997 Code §17.28.030)
11-5E-4: SETBACK:
There are no setback requirements for a business building. For residence
buildings, the setback shall be the same as in the C residence district. (1997
Code §17.28.040)
11-5E-5: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:
For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family shall be
two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For apartment houses, the
minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred (500) square feet. (1997 Code
§17.28.050)
ARTICLE F. E INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5F-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5F-2: Height
11-5F-3: Side Yard
11-5F-4: Setback
11-5F-5: Lot Area Per Family
11-5F-6: Parking
11-5F-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
Buildings and land may be used for any purpose whatsoever, not in conflict with
any ordinance of the town regulating nuisances; provided, however, that no
building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any of the following uses
until and unless the locations of such uses shall have been approved by the
board of adjustment:
   A.   Stockyard or slaughter of animals or fowl.
   B.   Explosives, manufacture or storage.
   C.   Petroleum refining or processing.
   D.   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping.
   E.   The processing, disposal, storage or manufacture of anything which in
itself by process of manufacture or in its completed stage is noxious,
constitutes a fire hazard or is dangerous for any reason. (1997 Code
§17.32.010)
11-5F-2: HEIGHT:
No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed forty feet
(40') or three (3) stories in height. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)
11-5F-3: SIDE YARD:
For business buildings, no side yard shall be required; but if provided, shall
be not less than five feet (5'). For residences, the side yard shall be the
same as required in the C residence district. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)
11-5F-4: SETBACK:
There are no setback requirements for a business building. For residential
buildings, the setback shall be the same as in the C residence district. (Ord.
562, 10-7-2019)
11-5F-5: LOT AREA PER FAMILY:
For one- and/or two-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per family shall be
two thousand seven hundred fifty (2,750) square feet. For apartment houses, the
minimum lot area per family shall be five hundred (500) square feet. (Ord. 562,
10-7-2019)
11-5F-6: PARKING:
There are no parking requirements for business or industrial buildings. For
apartment houses, the owner shall provide off street parking for at least one
automobile for each family dwelling unit. (Ord. 562, 10-7-2019)
ARTICLE G. R RANCHETTE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5G-1: Permitted Uses And Regulations
11-5G-2: Dwelling Area Per Family
11-5G-3: Height
11-5G-4: Improvement Location
11-5G-5: Lot Area
11-5G-6: Sanitary Sewer
11-5G-7: Livestock; Fencing
11-5G-8: Roads And Drainage
11-5G-1: PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected or
structurally altered, unless as provided in this title, except for one or more
of the following uses:
   A.   One-family dwelling.
   B.   Schools (elementary and high).
   C.   Churches; provided, that before a new church may be constructed upon
the property, where no church was there before located, the written consent of
sixty percent (60%) of the persons owning property within three hundred feet
(300') of such location shall first be obtained.
   D.   Accessory buildings not to exceed three (3) in number including a
garage. Any structure, garage, barn, shed, stall or other outbuilding shall be
attached to permanent cement footing, caisson, and/or pole foundation. (1997
Code §17.10.010)
11-5G-2: DWELLING AREA PER FAMILY:
Each residential structure shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square
feet measured on the outside walls. A two-story home or larger must have a
minimum of eight hundred (800) square feet on ground floor level and a minimum
of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living space. (1997 Code
§17.10.020)
11-5G-3: HEIGHT:
No buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') in height or more than two (2) stories above foundations or
basement. (1997 Code §17.10.030)
11-5G-4: IMPROVEMENT LOCATION:
No structure shall be erected less than ten feet (10') from the property line
on all sides. (1997 Code §17.10.040)
11-5G-5: LOT AREA:
Lots will be a minimum of two and one-half (21/2) acres which shall include
rights of way for roads, water line and utility easements. (1997 Code
§17.10.050)
11-5G-6: SANITARY SEWER:
It is understood that current regulations of the Colorado department of health
permit a septic tank on any property containing two and one-half (21/2) acres
or more. The owners of property in this zone shall be required to install and
maintain their own septic system, leachfield and associated waste disposal
facility which will comply with the rules and regulations of the Northeast
Colorado health department and shall be approved by them before installation.
The town shall have no obligation to provide sanitary sewer services to any
lot. (1997 Code §17.10.060)
11-5G-7: LIVESTOCK; FENCING:
Animal Units Limited: No more than five (5) animal units shall be maintained,
pastured or held at any one time. Animal units are defined in Section
6-7-16(C).
TYPE ANIMAL UNITS
TYPE                                      ANIMAL UNITS
Cattle
   Any age                             1.00
Equine
   Horse                               1.00
   Donkey                              0.66
   Miniature Horse                     0.33
Sheep
   Any age                             0.33
Goats
   All breads and ages                 0.33
Swine
   Hog                                 0.33
Elk
   Any age                             1.00
Buffalo
   Any age                             1.33
Llamas and Alpacas
   Any age                             0.50
Fowl, Game Birds, Other Small Animals
   Ostriches, emus, rheas              0.50
   Rabbits                             0.10
   Mature Chickens, Turkeys, Geese, Duc0.10
 
(Ord. 561, 10-7-2019; amd. Ord. 564, 12-9-2019)
11-5G-8: ROADS AND DRAINAGE:
It is understood that the person or persons seeking this zoning shall provide
for adequate drainage of the property and the town will have no obligation to
pave the dedicated streets. (1997 Code §17.10.090)
CHAPTER 6
MOBILE HOMES, MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS AND PARKS
ARTICLE A. MOBILE HOMES GENERALLY
SECTION:
11-6A-1: Purpose
11-6A-2: Definitions
11-6A-3: Location Of Mobile Homes
11-6A-4: Procedure For New Mobile Home Development
11-6A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter and chapter 7 of this title, is to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the town. Furthermore, it is the
intent of said chapters and articles to achieve the following:
   A.   To make provision for an alternative choice in housing.
   B.   To encourage efficient and functional use of land for mobile home parks
and subdivisions.
   C.   To minimize potential impacts on surrounding land uses through the site
plan process. (1997 Code §17.36.010)
11-6A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases in this chapter and chapter 7 of this title have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The designated building inspector of the town.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the town.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of property
ownership or for development.
MOBILE HOME: Manufactured housing designated for long term residential use and
built on a chassis so that it can be transported to a site and be connected to
public utility systems.
MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT: A mobile home park or a mobile home subdivision.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership or control, and
licensed as a mobile home park as provided for in this chapter.
MOBILE HOME PARK PERMITS: A written permit issued by the building official
permitting the construction, alteration or operation of a mobile home park.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended to provide
individual lots for residential occupancy in a mobile home.
TOWN BOARD: The town board of trustees.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle designed primarily for use as a portable temporary
dwelling unit for travel, recreational or camping purposes, either self-
propelled or mounted on or towed by another powered vehicle.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: An area clearly defined and separate from a mobile home
park area, with individual parking spaces for not less than twenty (20) travel
trailers, which may or may not have facilities for a temporary hookup of
electrical and plumbing outlets, commonly known as a camping area. (1997 Code
§17.36.020; amd. 2016 Code)
11-6A-3: LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   Location In Mobile Home Developments: Mobile homes shall be located in
mobile home developments approved by the town in accordance with procedures set
forth in this chapter. The location and establishment of mobile home
developments shall be subject to all applicable provisions of this title.
Further, no mobile home shall be occupied for dwelling purposes unless the
mobile home is properly placed in a mobile home space or lot and is connected
to water, sewage, electric and gas utilities as appropriate.
   B.   Parking Outside Developments Restricted: Except as otherwise provided
for in this code, no mobile home shall be parked anywhere in the town. (1997
Code §17.36.030)
11-6A-4: PROCEDURE FOR NEW MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Site Plan Submittal And Approval: Before any permits can be issued for
construction of a mobile home development, a site plan shall be submitted and
approved by the town board.
   B.   Approval Of Subdivision Plat: Applicants for mobile home subdivisions,
in addition to meeting site plan requirements as stated in subsection A of this
section, shall obtain town board approval of a subdivision plat in accordance
with the provisions of the land subdivision regulations of the town.
   C.   Existing Parks:
      1.   Not Affected: Mobile home parks legally existing on the date of
adoption of this chapter shall not be affected by the provisions of this
chapter unless:
         a.   An expansion of the park is requested; or
         b.   An increase in the number of mobile home spaces over that
approved on their mobile home park permit requested.
      2.   Annual Licensing And Fees: Mobile home parks legally existing on the
date of adoption of this chapter shall be subject to the annual licensing
process and fees as set forth in this chapter. (1997 Code §17.36.040)
ARTICLE B. MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
11-6B-1: Applicability
11-6B-2: Bulk Requirements
11-6B-3: Off Street Parking Requirements
11-6B-4: Street And Sidewalk Design Standards
11-6B-5: Utility Design Requirements
11-6B-6: Building Code Requirements
11-6B-7: Homeowners' Association
11-6B-1: APPLICABILITY:
The following standards and requirements shall apply to mobile home
subdivisions. (1997 Code §17.36.050)
11-6B-2: BULK REQUIREMENTS:
The following are the minimum requirements for mobile home subdivisions.
Aesthetic, environmental or facility design may necessitate exceeding the
minimum specified.
   A.   Parcel size: Five (5) acres.
   B.   Parcel street frontage: Fifty feet (50').
   C.   Singlewide unit lot size: Four thousand (4,000) square feet.
   D.   Singlewide unit lot frontage: Forty feet (40').
   E.   Doublewide unit lot space: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   F.   Doublewide unit lot frontage: Fifty feet (50').
   G.   Front setback from property line: Fifteen feet (15').
   H.   Rear setback: Ten feet (10').
   I.   Side setback: Five feet (5').
   J.   Usable open space per lot: One thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet.
   K.   Side and rear spacing of mobile homes shall provide for a minimum of
twenty feet (20') between units.
   L.   The required lot frontage may be measured along the front setback line;
provided, however, the lot width at the street line, as measured in a straight
line where the lot lines intersect the street lines, is a minimum of twenty
feet (20').
   M.   Only one mobile home dwelling unit shall be allowed on each lot. (1997
Code §17.36.060)
11-6B-3: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every mobile home lot shall include two (2) paved off street parking
spaces located five feet (5') to the rear of the front lot line. In order to
meet this requirement, tandem parking design can be utilized.
   B.   Where open space community facilities or other amenity is provided,
provision shall be made for user parking off the street in accordance with the
provision of this title. (1997 Code §17.36.070)
11-6B-4: STREET AND SIDEWALK DESIGN STANDARDS:
All streets in the mobile home subdivision shall be dedicated to the public and
built to town street construction standards and specifications, and also the
following:
   A.   Sidewalk width shall be four feet (4') plus a one foot (1') gutter pan.
   B.   The cul-de-sac right of way diameter shall be eighty feet (80'). (1997
Code §17.36.080)
11-6B-5: UTILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
All public facilities shall be installed underground in accordance with the
uniform plumbing code of the Colorado department of health, the national
electrical code and town standards for single-family residential service. (1997
Code §17.36.090)
11-6B-6: BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Certification: All mobile homes in mobile home subdivisions shall be
certified as meeting the mobile home construction and safety standards of the
U.S. department of housing and urban development.
   B.   Permit Requirements; Fees:
      1.   Prior to moving any mobile home into a mobile home subdivision, the
owner or the other authorized person shall obtain a permit issued by the
building inspector. The permit shall be valid for a period of ninety (90) days
following its issuance. No permit shall be issued to set up a mobile home
unless the mobile home to be set up is in conformance with the approved site
plan of the mobile home subdivision. This permit shall include provisions that
the mobile home owner shall be responsible for any damages to streets,
sidewalks or other public areas or structures within the mobile home
subdivision that may be caused in moving the mobile home onto the lot.
      2.   A permit shall be required to move a mobile home from a mobile home
lot. The building inspector shall issue these permits and the permit shall
include provisions that the owner shall be responsible for any damages to
streets, sidewalks or other public areas or structures within the mobile home
subdivision that may be caused in moving the mobile home from a lot. The permit
shall also be conditioned upon proper disconnection from public utilities.
      3.   Fees for any of the permits required by this section shall be
established by the town board by resolution from time to time.
   C.   Skirting: Skirting of an acceptable quality shall be attached to all
mobile homes within ninety (90) days of the date of issuance of the permit.
   D.   Tie Down Requirements: Mobile homes shall be tied down in accordance
with the stabilization and anchorage instructions furnished by the mobile home
manufacturers.
   E.   Inspection; Certificate Of Occupancy: Prior to occupancy, the building
inspector shall inspect each mobile home to determine compliance with this
article. No occupancy shall be permitted or certificate of occupancy issued
until the inspection and all connections to public utilities have been made.
(1997 Code §17.36.100)
11-6B-7: HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION:
All mobile home subdivision developers shall establish an association of
property owners. The association shall satisfy standards established by the
town board by resolution to include, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Mandatory participation in association of property owners to maintain
all common areas, buffer areas and vacant lots within the subdivision to
enforce restrictive covenants;
   B.   Binding effect on all future property owners;
   C.   Perpetual existence;
   D.   Unaffected by any change in zoning or land use;
   E.   Assurance of adequate maintenance;
   F.   Enforceable by the town by appropriate legal action; and
   G.   That if maintenance or preservation of common areas or lots no longer
complies with the provision of the association's document, the town shall take
all necessary action to assure compliance and assess the association all costs
incurred by the town for such purposes, including reasonable attorney fees.
(1997 Code §17.36.110)
ARTICLE C. MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
11-6C-1: Office And Register Required
11-6C-2: Permit Requirements; Fees
11-6C-3: Standards
11-6C-4: Bulk Requirements
11-6C-5: Space Markers
11-6C-6: Street Design Standards
11-6C-7: Off Street Parking
11-6C-8: Utility Design Requirements
11-6C-9: Mobile Home Stands
11-6C-10: Outdoor Living Area
11-6C-11: Tenant Storage
11-6C-12: Building Requirements
11-6C-13: Street Names And Addresses
11-6C-14: Solid Waste Disposal
11-6C-15: Revocation Of Permit
11-6C-1: OFFICE AND REGISTER REQUIRED:
   A.   Park Permit And Certificate Of Occupancy Posted: Every mobile home park
shall have an office in which a copy of the park permit and certificate of
occupancy shall be posted and the park registrar shall be kept in such office.
   B.   Register Of Occupancy: It shall be the duty of the owner to keep a
register of park occupancy which shall be current at all times and contain the
following information:
      1.   Full name and address in the park of the owner of the mobile home or
his tenant or agent;
      2.   The make, model, serial number, year and dimension of each mobile
home; and
      3.   The date of arrival and departure of each mobile home and
destination. (1997 Code §17.36.260)
11-6C-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to construct, operate,
maintain or alter a mobile home park in the town without first having secured a
permit from the town to do so.
   B.   Application; Required Information: Application for a mobile home park
permit shall be made in writing to the town clerk and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The name and operator of the mobile home park.
      3.   A copy of the site plan to be approved by the town board and
recorded at the county clerk and recorder's office. Mobile home parks existing
on the date of adoption of this chapter shall utilize plans already on file
with the building inspector unless changes are required.
   C.   Certification Of Taxes And Assessments Paid: No permit may be issued
for a mobile home park unless a certificate is presented that shows all
property taxes, real and personal, and all special assessments have been paid
to date.
   D.   Term Of Permit; Fees: All annual operating permits shall expire on
April 30. Application for permit renewal shall be made at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date. The application for such permit, or renewal
thereof, shall be accompanied by an annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the first twenty (20) mobile home spaces or part thereof, and two dollars fifty
cents ($2.50) for each additional mobile home space in the existing or proposed
mobile home park.
   E.   Permits Nontransferable: No mobile home park permit shall be
transferable or assignable.
   F.   Issuance: If the building inspector determines that the mobile home
park is in compliance with all provisions of this article and other applicable
regulations, he shall issue a mobile home park permit. (1997 Code §17.36.120)
11-6C-3: STANDARDS:
The standards set out in this article shall apply to all mobile home parks
which shall be subject to review and approval through the site plan process.
(1997 Code §17.36.130)
11-6C-4: BULK REQUIREMENTS:
The following are minimum requirements for all mobile home parks:
 
                  Park Site Mobile Home Space
Minimum area      5 acres   4,000 square feet
Minimum lot width 100 feet  40 feet, singlewide
 
   A.   Minimum Yards:
      1.   The distance between any building or mobile home from a property
line of the park shall be twenty feet (20').
      2.   The front setback of a mobile home, exclusive of the towing hitch,
shall be fifteen feet (15') from the back of the curb on interior streets or
drives.
      3.   Side and rear spacing shall provide for a distance of twenty feet
(20') between units.
      4.   There shall be a minimum setback of eighteen feet (18') between any
service facility or mobile home park permanent building and any mobile home.
(1997 Code §17.36.140)
11-6C-5: SPACE MARKERS:
Each mobile home space shall be clearly marked on the ground by permanent
stakes, markers or other suitable means. (1997 Code §17.36.150)
11-6C-6: STREET DESIGN STANDARDS:
All interior streets in mobile home parks shall be privately owned and
maintained by the mobile home park owner and shall be built to town street
construction standards and specifications, and also the following:
   A.   Sidewalk width shall be four feet (4') plus a one foot (1') gutter pan.
   B.   Cul-de-sac right of way diameter shall be eighty feet (80').
   C.   Paved walks shall be provided to each mobile home stand from the
street. (1997 Code §17.36.160)
11-6C-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Every mobile home park space shall have one paved off street parking
space adjacent to the mobile home stand. There shall be one additional
designated parking space for each mobile home space within one hundred feet
(100') of the space for exclusive use of its occupants.
   B.   Where open space, community facilities or other amenity is provided,
provision shall be made for user parking off the street in accordance with the
provisions of this title. (1997 Code §17.36.170)
11-6C-8: UTILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All public utilities shall be installed in accordance with the plumbing
code of the Colorado department of health, the national electrical code and
town standards.
   B.   Each mobile home shall have a separate meter for water service. (1997
Code §17.36.180)
11-6C-9: MOBILE HOME STANDS:
   A.   The mobile home stand in the mobile home space shall be improved to
provide an adequate foundation for the placement and tie down of the mobile
home, to secure the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning.
   B.   The mobile home stand shall not bear, shift or settle unevenly under
the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting on the superstructure.
   C.   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie downs such
as cast in place concrete "dead men", eyelets imbedded in concrete foundations
or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other devices securing the
stability of the mobile home.
   D.   Anchors and tie downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the
mobile home stand and at the midpoints of the mobile home stand, for a total of
at least six (6) tie down points, each able to sustain a minimum tensile
strength of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) pounds.
   E.   The location of each mobile home stand shall be at such elevation,
distance and angle in relation to an access street that placement and removal
of the mobile home is practical. (1997 Code §17.36.190)
11-6C-10: OUTDOOR LIVING AREA:
   A.   An outdoor living area shall be provided on each space equal to at
least ten percent (10%) of its area; provided, that in no case shall such area
be less than three hundred (300) square feet or required to be more than five
hundred (500) square feet.
   B.   Such outdoor living area shall be properly drained, located for
convenience and optimum use and walled, fenced or planted to provide reasonable
privacy. Within such area, a section suitably surfaced shall be provided, not
less than one hundred (100) square feet in area or ten feet (10') in width.
This section may be covered in whole or in part by a roof. (1997 Code
§17.36.200)
11-6C-11: TENANT STORAGE:
   A.   A separate uniform tenant storage structure shall be provided for each
space, located on each space or in compounds not more than one hundred feet
(100') from each mobile home stand serving no more than four (4) mobile homes.
   B.   There shall be a minimum of two hundred twenty four (224) cubic feet of
storage area provided for each mobile home space.
   C.   Design and location shall enhance the appearance of the park and the
structure shall be constructed of suitable weather resistant materials. (1997
Code §17.36.210)
11-6C-12: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   HUD Standards Not Required: Mobile homes in mobile home parks shall not
be required to meet department of housing and urban development standards.
   B.   Skirting: All mobile homes shall be skirted, but such skirting shall
not attach the mobile home permanently to the ground, provide a harborage for
rodents or create a fire hazard.
   C.   Additions:
      1.   Additions to increase the floor areas of mobile homes within the
mobile home park shall be permitted except that such additional room, including
cabanas, patios or porches, does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the square
foot area of the mobile home.
      2.   All additions shall comply with minimum yard requirements, and a
building permit shall be required in advance for any such addition.
   D.   Inspection; Certificate Of Occupancy: Prior to occupancy, the building
inspector shall inspect each mobile home to determine compliance with this
article. No occupancy shall be permitted or certificate of occupancy issued
until the inspection and all connections to public utilities have been made.
Fees for this inspection shall be established by the town board from time to
time. (1997 Code §17.36.220)
11-6C-13: STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSES:
All mobile home park streets shall be named on the plan submitted by the owner
for approval. Each space shall be numerically designated for address and mail
purposes and signs furnished and installed by mobile home owner. (1997 Code
§17.36.230)
11-6C-14: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Compliance With Town, State Or Federal Regulations: The owner of any
mobile home park shall be responsible for the promulgation and enforcement of
rules and regulations governing solid waste storage and handling that meet or
exceed town, state or federal regulations.
   B.   Container Requirements: The owner shall provide containers for the
storage of solid wastes awaiting collection. Containers are to be sized to
completely contain all solid wastes that are generated on the premises. Such
containers shall conform to all applicable town specifications of regulations
including size, sanitary conditions, physical conditions, and container
closure.
   C.   Container Location; Collection:
      1.   The owner shall provide an adequate location or locations for such
containers which shall facilitate the collection of solid wastes from the park.
Such locations shall be accessible to collection vehicles and to occupants of
the park.
      2.   The collection vehicle should be able to remain on a public street
or alley and be able to stop directly adjacent to the container location. If
private drives must be used, they should provide sufficient space around parked
vehicles for easy operation of the collection vehicle without backing the
vehicle.
   D.   Sanitary Condition Of Collection Points: The collection points,
including the containers located therein, shall be kept in a neat and sanitary
condition by the owner or his agent. (1997 Code §17.36.240)
11-6C-15: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Owner Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the owner to
ensure that all requirements of this article are met and maintained.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: When it appears to the building inspector, the
chief of the fire department, or the chief of the police department that any
person holding a license under this article has violated any of the provisions
of this article or any health or safety regulation of the town, a written
notice shall be served upon such owner in person or by certified mail
specifying the violation of this article or any health or safety regulation and
requiring him to appear before the town board at a time specified therein not
less than ten (10) days after such service, and to show cause why such license
should not be suspended or revoked. At such time, the owner and the fire,
police and building inspector of the town may produce such evidence as may be
relevant to determine whether the violation contained in the charge has been
committed. If the town board finds that such violation has been committed, the
board shall also advise the owner and the owner shall be permitted to continue
operation, but if the town board finds from the evidence that such violation
has been committed, the board shall so advise the owner and may suspend or
revoke the license.
   C.   Operation Without License Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person
whose license has been revoked or suspended to operate, continue to operate or
offer to operate any mobile home park after the date of such revocation or
during the term of suspension, as the case may be. (1997 Code §17.36.250)
ARTICLE D. SITE PLAN
SECTION:
11-6D-1: Plan Contents
11-6D-2: Site Plan Requirements
11-6D-3: Site Plan Review Procedure
11-6D-1: PLAN CONTENTS:
Before any permit is issued for construction of a mobile home development, a
site plan and required documentation shall be submitted to and approved by the
town board. The plan shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor or
registered professional engineer and shall be drawn to a scale of no less than
one inch equals one hundred feet (1"=100') and shall include, as a minimum, the
following:
   A.   North arrow, date of plan, engineer's scale and legend.
   B.   Boundaries and area of mobile home development, legal description of
property, and total spaces in the area.
   C.   Names of adjacent public streets, roads, and existing zoning of
adjacent property.
   D.   Name and address of fee owner and record owner of the proposed mobile
home development; and name, address and phone number of firm or individual
responsible for site plan.
   E.   Topography, showing existing and proposed grades, at one foot (1')
intervals.
   F.   All required setback lines, shown as dashed lines.
   G.   Landscaping and buffer areas.
   H.   Location and dimensions of all mobile home lots or spaces and a
schedule of units per acre.
   I.   Lot and block numbering system of lots or numbering system for each
mobile home space.
   J.   Location and dimension of existing and proposed rights of way,
easements and proposed street names.
   K.   Location and plan of any buildings to be constructed in the mobile home
development.
   L.   Surface drainage and storm sewer plan.
   M.   Paving and draining plans showing the directions and calculated
quantities of runoff. Street and drainage construction shall be to the
specifications of the town as to location and grade. Drainage improvements
shall be sufficient to contain drainage flows.
   N.   Plans and profiles of all roads and main storm drainage and sanitary
sewer facilities.
   O.   Location and dimension of trash disposal areas or enclosures.
   P.   Location and size of proposed water and sewer service connections.
   Q.   Either proposed homeowners' association and restrictive covenants for a
mobile home subdivision or tenant rules and regulations and plans for operation
of mobile home park. (1997 Code §17.36.270)
11-6D-2: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Traffic Flow: Principal vehicular points shall be designed to encourage
smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. In general, minor streets shall not be
connected with the streets outside the district in such a way as to encourage
the use of such minor streets by substantial amounts of through traffic. No
site within the park shall have direct vehicular access to a street bordering
the development. There shall be at least two (2) connections to the public
street system.
   B.   Access For Pedestrians And Cyclists: Access for pedestrians and
cyclists to and from the mobile home development shall be by safe and
convenient routes. Such ways need not be adjacent or limited to the vicinity of
vehicular access points. Where there are crossings of such ways and vehicular
routes at the perimeters of mobile home developments, such crossings shall be
safely located, marked and controlled, and where such ways are exposed to
substantial vehicular traffic, safeguards may be required to prevent crossings
except at designated points. Bicycle paths, if provided, shall be related to
the pedestrian way system that street crossings are combined.
   C.   Buffers And Screening:
      1.   Where mobile home developments adjoin public streets located along
exterior boundaries, a landscaped buffer at least ten feet (10') wide shall
satisfy open space requirements for individual dwellings, but shall not contain
carports, recreational shelters, storage structures, or any other structures
generally prohibited in yards adjacent to streets in residential districts. No
direct vehicular access to individual lots shall be permitted through such
yards, and no group parking facilities or active recreation areas shall be
allowed therein.
      2.   Where mobile home developments are so located that one or more
boundaries adjoin neighboring residential districts without an intervening
street, alley or other permanent open space at least twenty feet (20') in
width, a buffer at least ten feet (10') wide shall be provided.
      3.   Along the perimeter of mobile home developments, walls or vegetative
screening shall be provided where needed to protect residents from undesirable
views, lighting, noise or other off site influences, or to separate occupants
of adjoining residential districts from the potentially inconsistent land use
characteristics of mobile home parks and residential districts. In particular,
extensive off street parking areas and service areas for loading and unloading
of other than passenger vehicles, and storage and collection of trash and
garbage, shall be screened.
   D.   Lighting: In mobile home parks only, adequate light shall be provided
to illuminate streets, driveways and walkways for the safe movement of vehicles
and pedestrians at night. (1997 Code §17.36.280)
11-6D-3: SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Mobile Home Development:
      1.   Plan Submission; Fee: The site plan of the proposed mobile home
development shall be submitted in six (6) copies to the building official. The
fee to be paid at submittal shall be determined by the town board by resolution
from time to time.
      2.   Decision Of Town Board: The town board may receive the site plan at
a regular meeting after it determines that the site plan is complete. The town
board shall approve, modify and approve, or disapprove the site plan within
sixty five (65) days after date of receipt of the site plan.
      3.   Site Plan Binding: The site plan as approved by the town board shall
be binding and shall not be changed during the construction of the mobile home
development. Substantial changes from an approved plan shall be approved by the
town board.
   B.   Mobile Home Subdivision: In the case of a mobile home subdivision, the
requirements of the site plan and site plan approval may be incorporated into
any required plat and considered as one document. (1997 Code §17.36.290)
CHAPTER 7
TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS AND PUBLIC CAMPGROUNDS
ARTICLE A. TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
11-7A-1: Definitions
11-7A-2: Right Of Entry
11-7A-3: Licensing Requirements; Fees
11-7A-4: Parking Travel Trailers And Motor Homes
11-7A-5: General Park Requirements
11-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following terms or words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless a different meaning appears
from the context.
 
                 An area clearly defined and separate from a mobile home park
TRAILER PARK:    area, with individual parking lots, which may or may not have
                 facilities for the temporary hook-up of electrical and
                 plumbing outlets.
                 A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed to
                 be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
                 vacation use, and equipped for the road. It may be self-
TRAVEL TRAILERS: contained, with bath and toilet facilities, or classified as a
                 dependent type, without bath and toilet facilities. Any
                 regulations applying to travel trailers will also apply to
                 campers mounted on a truck chassis, tents or tent type
                 trailers. (Ord. 563, 12-9-2019)
 
11-7A-2: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Right Of Entry; Inspection: The building inspector or his duly authorized
representative shall have the right and be empowered to enter any premises on
which any mobile home or travel trailer is located, or is about to be located,
and to inspect the same and all accommodations connected therewith at
reasonable times. (1997 Code § 17.36.330; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 563, 12-9-2019).
11-7A-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   License Required; Term; Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain or
permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by such person, a travel trailer park in the town, without having
first secured a license from the town board to do so.
      2.   Prior to issuance of the initial license for a travel trailer park,
the Town shall determine that the applicant has complied with the provisions of
this article and this title.
      3.   The certificate of occupancy shall be attached to the register of
such park and a copy shall be maintained on file in the office of the town
clerk.
      4.   All licenses shall expire on April 30. Application for license
renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days prior to expiration.
   B.   Application for License; Fees:
      1.   The application for such license, or the renewal thereof, shall be
filed with the Town Clerk and shall be accompanied by an annual fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the first twenty (20) travel trailer spaces, or part
thereof, and two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for each additional travel trailer
space in the existing or proposed travel trailer park. The cost of any license
having less than six (6) months to run before the expiration date, as herein
provided, shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%).
      2.   The application for a license, or a renewal thereof, shall be made
on forms furnished by the town clerk and shall include the name, address and
signature of the owner in fee of the tract; name, address, and signature of
applicant, if other than owner; legal description of the premises upon which
the travel trailer park is, or will be, located; and a site plan illustrating
the proposed layout of the travel trailer park.
   C.   Plan Approval: No license may be issued for a travel trailer park
unless the plans for such park have been approved according to the requirements
of this title.
   D.   Proof Of Payment Of Taxes And Assessments: No license may be issued for
a travel trailer park unless a certificate is presented that shows that
property taxes, real and personal, and all special assessments have been paid
to date.
   E.   License Nontransferable: No license issued for a travel trailer park
shall be transferable or assignable.
   F.   Responsibilities Of Park Owner: The owner of a travel trailer park
shall be, and at all times remain, responsible for all utilities and buildings,
thereon.
   G.   Special Conditions: The Board of Trustees may establish such additional
terms and conditions for licenses issued under this Section
11-7A-3 as the Board of Trustees determines necessary and proper on a case by
case basis.
   H.   Revocation Of License: A license issued to a travel trailer park may be
revoked in accordance with the provisions of section
11-6C-15 of this title. (Ord. 563, 12-9-2019)
11-7A-4: PARKING TRAVEL TRAILERS AND MOTOR HOMES:
No travel trailer, motor home, camper coach, camper trailer, trailer coach or
the like, whether self-propelled or without motive power, either attached to or
detached from the towing vehicle, shall park or be parked within the town,
except in a licensed and approved travel trailer park as specified by this
article, or upon any alley or public ground within the town; nor shall the same
be parked on any street or streets within the town for a period longer than
five (5) days; provided, however, this section shall not be construed to
prohibit the parking of uninhabited, unused travel trailers, motor homes, or
the like, upon private property for the purpose of storage or sale when done so
in compliance with all other applicable provisions of this article. (Ord. 563,
12-9-2019)
11-7A-5: GENERAL PARK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Service Building:
      1.   Travel trailer parks which accommodate Dependent Travel Trailers,
shall provide a service building containing separate showers and sanitary
facilities within two hundred feet (200') of any travel trailer parking space.
      2.   A "Dependent Travel Trailer" is a travel trailer without bath and
toilet facilities.
      3.   The service building shall be constructed to the requirements of the
international building code as adopted by the town, and requirements of the
Colorado department of health.
   B.   Utility Hookups; Disposal Of Human Excrement: In travel trailer parks
established on or after December 9, 2019, each travel trailer space shall
provide a utility hookup, including electricity, water and sewer, for each
travel trailer. No toilet, washing or bathing facility within the travel
trailer shall be used unless it is connected with the town sanitary sewer or is
a self-contained unit. No human excrement, wash water, garbage or trash shall
be deposited or thrown on the ground.
   C.   Size Of Individual Spaces: The site of individual spaces for parking of
travel trailers shall be a minimum size of twenty feet by sixty feet (20' x
60').
   D.   Maintenance Of Service Buildings And Grounds: All service buildings and
the grounds of the park shall be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and
kept free of any condition that will menace the health of any occupant or the
public, or constitute a nuisance or fire hazard.
   E.   Mobile Home Used As Caretaker Office Or Residence: One mobile home may
be placed in a travel trailer park and occupied as a residence or office by the
caretaker or owner of the park. Such mobile home shall comply with the
provisions of this article.
   F.   Solid Waste Storage And Handling: The owner of any travel trailer park
shall be responsible for the promulgation and enforcement of rules and
regulations governing solid waste storage and handling that will meet or exceed
town, state and federal regulations.
      1.   The owner shall provide containers for storage of solid wastes
awaiting collection. Containers are to be sized to completely contain all solid
wastes that are generated on the park. Such containers must conform to all
applicable town specifications or regulations including, but not limited to,
size, sanitary conditions, physical conditions and container closure.
      2.   The owner shall provide an adequate location or locations for such
containers which shall facilitate the collection of solid wastes from the
premises. Such locations shall be accessible to collection crews and occupants
of the premises. The collection vehicle should be able to remain on a public
street or alley and to stop directly adjacent to the container location. If
private drives must be used, they should provide sufficient space around parked
vehicles for each operation of the collection vehicle without backing the
vehicle.
      3.   The collection points, including the containers located therein,
shall be kept in a neat and sanitary condition by the owner or his agent. (Ord.
563, 12-9-2019)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC CAMPGROUNDS
SECTION:
11-7B-1: Definitions
11-7B-2: Length Of Stay
11-7B-3: Charges
11-7B-4: Camping Spaces
11-7B-5: Litter
11-7B-6: Fires
11-7B-7: Violations; Penalties
11-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply:
DAY: A twenty four (24) hour period, or any part thereof.
PUBLIC CAMPGROUND: A public area maintained, operated and controlled by the
town to provide for the overnight camping of tourists and other travelers,
designed primarily to provide space for travel trailers and tents. (1997 Code
§17.36.340)
11-7B-2: LENGTH OF STAY:
It is unlawful for any person to occupy any space in any public campground for
longer than seven (7) consecutive days. A person shall be deemed to have
occupied space within the campground for one full day if he has occupied space
in the campground for any part of a day. However, for a break to occur in the
occupation of a space, a person must have removed himself and his tent, trailer
or other shelter or accommodations for one full day. (1997 Code §17.36.350)
11-7B-3: CHARGES:
   A.   The first twenty four (24) hours of occupancy shall be free. (1997 Code
§17.36.360)
   B.   Thereafter, a charge established by board of trustees by resolution
from time to time shall be levied and paid in advance for occupancy of each
space for each day or part thereof. (1997 Code §17.36.360; amd. 2016 Code)
11-7B-4: CAMPING SPACES:
   A.   All public campgrounds shall be divided into spaces which shall be
appropriately marked and to be readily apparent.
   B.   All vehicles, travel trailers and tents shall be placed or parked in
such spaces and no other place in the public campgrounds. (1997 Code
§17.36.370)
11-7B-5: LITTER:
It is unlawful for any person to place, throw or in any other manner deposit
upon any public campground any waste, garbage, refuse, excrement or litter of
any nature whatsoever, and all persons shall keep the area around their vehicle
and within the space occupied by them free from all debris and litter of any
nature. (1997 Code §17.36.380)
11-7B-6: FIRES:
It is unlawful for any persons to build any fires on any public campgrounds
except in places specifically provided therefor. (1997 Code §17.36.390)
11-7B-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who violates any provision of this article
shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. (1997
Code §17.36.400; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Each Day Separate Violation: Each day any person occupies a space
within a public campground beyond seven (7) consecutive days, as provided in
this article, shall be deemed a separate violation of this article.
   C.   Removal Of Violators From Campground: In addition to any other remedies
in this article, the town, through its police department, may remove any
violators from the public campgrounds and exclude them therefrom. If the
violators, upon request, refuse to remove themselves and their vehicles and
belongings, the vehicles and belongings may be removed from the public
campground, impounded, and the cost therefor collected from the violator's
costs prior to the return of such items. (1997 Code §17.36.400)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: Lands To Which Chapter Applies
12-1-7: Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas
12-1-8: Compliance Required
12-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-10: Interpretation
12-1-11: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-12: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-13: Floodplain Development Permit
12-1-14: Variance Procedures
12-1-15: General Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-16: Specific Standards For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-17: Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
12-1-18: Floodways
12-1-19: Alteration Of Watercourse
12-1-20: Properties Removed From Floodplain By Fill
12-1-21: Subdivision Proposals
12-1-22: Critical Facilities
12-1-23: Penalties For Noncompliance
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Colorado has, in Colorado Revised Statutes
title 29, article 20, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the board of
trustees for the town does hereby adopt the floodplain management regulations
set out in this chapter. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation,
which can result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure, and other
public facilities such as water, sewer, and gas mains; electric and
communications stations; and streets and bridges located in floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is located in a
flood hazard area. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
 
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flood or that cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application:
ADDITION: Any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the
square footage of an existing structure.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: A fan shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream that
flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the junction of a
tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans contain active stream
channels and boulder bars, and recently abandoned channels. Alluvial fans are
predominantly formed by alluvial deposits and are modified by infrequent sheet
flood, channel avulsions and other stream processes.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated zone AO or AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation shown on a FEMA flood insurance rate
map for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-V30,
and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given
year.
BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level)
on all sides.
CHANNEL: The physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed and
stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.
CHANNELIZATION: The artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of a stream
channel.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (CFR): The codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the federal register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into fifty (50) titles
that represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
COMMUNITY: Any political subdivision in the state of Colorado that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through
zoning, including, but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated areas in
the counties, Indian tribes and drainage and flood control districts.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR):   FEMA's comment on a proposed
project, which does not revise an effective floodplain map, that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodplain.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A structure or related infrastructure, but not the land on
which it is situated, as specified in section
12-1-22 of this chapter, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to
public health and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the
community at any time before, during and after a flood. See section
12-1-22 of this chapter.
DFIRM DATABASE: Database (usually spreadsheets containing data and analyses
that accompany DFIRMs). The FEMA mapping specifications and guidelines outline
requirements for the development and maintenance of DFIRM databases.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM):   FEMA digital floodplain map. These
digital maps serve as "regulatory floodplain maps" for insurance and floodplain
management purposes.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and
piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water; and b) adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE,
A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building
elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency, the agency responsible for
administering the national flood insurance program.
FEDERAL REGISTER: The official daily publication for rules, proposed rules, and
notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive orders and
other presidential documents.
500-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2 percent
chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2 percent chance
annual flood). The term does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen
once every five hundred (500) years.
500-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 500-year flood.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: A physical structure designed and built expressly or
partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting, or guiding flood flows
along a particular waterway. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
emergency management agency. The report contains the flood insurance rate map
as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can be used to
determine base flood elevations for some areas.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source; or
   C.   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that is
combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to flow over
the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried by a current of
water and deposited along the path of the current).
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require permits for
all proposed construction or other development in the community including the
placement of manufactured homes, so that it may determine whether such
construction or other development is proposed within flood prone areas. Permits
are required to ensure that proposed development projects meet the requirements
of the NFIP and this chapter.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated as
the result of a flood, including the area of land over which floodwater would
flow from the spillway of a reservoir.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and/or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height. The Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to
be used for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half foot (1/2') (6 inches).
Letters of map revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use
the floodway criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway
delineation.
FREEBOARD: The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface
elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood such as debris blockage of bridge openings
and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR):   FEMA's official revision of an effective flood
insurance rate map (FIRM), or flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM), or both.
LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F):   FEMA's modification of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a levee
structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing flood protection, the
levee structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 CFR 65.10.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes which includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating, or recreation or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinate for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of
the national flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS): A form with data regarding the properties of
a particular substance. An important component of product stewardship and
workplace safety, it is intended to provide workers and emergency personnel
with procedures for handling or working with that substance in a safe manner,
and includes information such as physical data (melting point, boiling point,
flashpoint, etc.), toxicity, health effects, first aid, reactivity, storage,
disposal, protective equipment, and spill handling procedures.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North
American vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP):   FEMA's program of flood insurance
coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction with the Robert
T. Stafford relief and emergency assistance act. The NFIP has applicable
federal regulations promulgated in title 44 of the code of federal regulations.
The U.S. congress established the NFIP in 1968 with the passage of the national
flood insurance act of 1968.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
NO RISE CERTIFICATION: A record of the results of an engineering analysis
conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights in a
floodway. A no rise certification must be supported by technical data and
signed by a registered Colorado professional engineer. The supporting technical
data should be based on the standard step backwater computer model used to
develop the 100-year floodway shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or
flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM).
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood having a recurrence interval that has a one percent
(1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (1 percent
annual chance flood). The terms "one hundred year flood" and "one percent
chance flood" are synonymous with the term "100-year flood". The term does not
imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every one hundred (100)
years.
100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN: The area of land susceptible to being inundated as a
result of the occurrence of a 100-year flood.
PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR):   FEMA's action whereby one or more map panels are
physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change flood risk zones,
floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood elevations, and/or planimetric
features.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year,
i.e., the 100-year floodplain.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The date the building permit was issued, including
substantial improvements, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure just prior to
when the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. The value of the structure shall be determined by the local
jurisdiction having land use authority in the area of interest. This includes
structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
THRESHOLD PLANNING QUANTITY (TPQ): A quantity designated for each chemical on
the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers notification by
facilities to the state that such facilities are subject to emergency planning
requirements.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-6: LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas and areas removed
from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on
fill (LOMR-F) within the jurisdiction of Akron, Colorado. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-7: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the federal emergency management
agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance
Study for Washington County, Colorado and Incorporated Areas,” dated May 18,
2021, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-
floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this section. These special flood
hazard areas identified by the flood insurance study and attendant mapping are
the minimum area of applicability of this section and may be supplemented by
studies designated and approved by the board of trustees for the town of Akron.
The floodplain administrator shall keep a copy of the flood insurance study
(FIS), DFIRMs, FIRMs and/or FBFMs on file and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 508, 4-1-2013; amd. Ord. 573, 4-5-2021)
12-1-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed within the special flood hazard area without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall
prevent the board of trustees from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. These regulations meet the minimum
requirements as set forth by the Colorado water conservation board and the
national flood insurance program. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 508, 4-
1-2013)
12-1-10: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-11: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
   B.   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
area or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-12: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The town clerk is hereby appointed as floodplain
administrator to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter, including the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures and any floodproofing certificate required by
subsection
12-1-13B of this chapter.
      2.   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits required by adoption of this chapter.
      3.   Review floodplain development permit applications to determine
whether a proposed building site, including the placement of manufactured
homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Inspect all development at appropriate times during the period of
construction to ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter,
including proper elevation of the structure.
      6.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the special flood hazard area (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the
floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      7.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
12-1-7 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions
of sections
12-1-15 through
12-1-22 of this chapter.
8. For waterways with base flood elevations for which a regulatory floodway has
not been designated, no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on
the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one-half foot (1/2') at any point within the community.
9. Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national
flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one-half foot (1/2');
provided, that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision
through FEMA (conditional letter of map revision), fulfills the requirements
for such revisions as established under the provisions of section 65.12 and
receives FEMA approval.
      10.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency, which is the Colorado water conservation board, prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to FEMA.
      11.   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-13: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: A floodplain development permit shall be required to
ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application; Required Information: Application for a floodplain
development permit shall be presented to the floodplain administrator on forms
furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation
to special flood hazard area.
      1.   Additionally, the following information is required:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures.
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed.
         c.   A certificate from a registered Colorado professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of subsection
12-1-16B of this chapter.
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
         e.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
12-1-12B of this chapter.
      2.   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         b.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         c.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
         d.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
         e.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems.
         g.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
         h.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
         i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
         j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
for that area. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-14: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
F. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to
be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and
surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood
level, provided the relevant factors in subsection
12-1-13B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter as stated in section
12-1-3 of this chapter.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met; and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-15: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   E.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   F.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   G.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters.
   H.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-16: SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in: a) section
12-1-7; b) subsection
12-1-12B7; or c) section
12-1-21 of this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above
the base flood elevation. Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered
Colorado professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification
shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in section
12-1-22 of this chapter, new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the
lowest floor (including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork), elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that at
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      2.   A registered Colorado professional engineer or architect shall
develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are
in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
subsection. Such certification shall be maintained by the floodplain
administrator, as proposed in subsection
12-1-13B of this chapter.
   C.   Enclosures:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and which are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      2.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered Colorado professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: a) outside of
a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home, electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), are
elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      2.   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH and AE
on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of subsection D1
of this section, shall be elevated so that either:
         a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork), are one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation; or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   E.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH,
and AE on the community's FIRM either:
         a.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         c.   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
12-1-13B of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section.
      2.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   F.   Prior Approved Activities: Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by the town or a CLOMR was issued by FEMA prior
to the effective date hereof may be completed according to the standards in
place at the time of the permit or CLOMR issuance and will not be considered in
violation of this chapter if it meets such standards. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-17: AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES):
Located within the special flood hazard area established in section
12-1-7 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (1')
to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   Residential Construction: All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures must have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the depth number specified
in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no depth number is
specified). Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a registered Colorado
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor. Such certification shall be
submitted to the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in section
12-1-22 of this chapter, all new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures must have the lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork), elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least one foot (1') above the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least 3 feet if no depth number is specified), or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that
the structure is watertight to at least one foot (1') above the base flood
level with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy. A registered Colorado professional
engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standards of this section, as proposed in subsection
12-1-13B of this chapter, are satisfied.
      2.   Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes are required to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-18: FLOODWAYS:
Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to regulate existing and
future floodplain development. The state of Colorado has adopted floodway
standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum standard (see
definition of "floodway" in section
12-1-5 of this chapter). Located within special flood hazard areas established
in section
12-1-7 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
   A.   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed by a licensed Colorado professional engineer and in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment
would not result in any increase (requires a no rise certification) in flood
levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of sections
12-1-15 through
12-1-22 of this chapter.
   C.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national
flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations; provided, that the community first applies for a CLOMR and floodway
revision through FEMA. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-19: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSE:
For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse within a special flood
hazard area, the following standards apply:
   A.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately consider
issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition, and channel migration and
properly mitigate potential problems through the project as well as upstream
and downstream of any improvement activity. A detailed analysis of sediment
transport and overall channel stability should be considered, when appropriate,
to assist in determining the most appropriate design.
   B.   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the residual
100-year floodplain.
   C.   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed by a
project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the regulatory floodplain
and be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local floodplain
rules, regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
registered Colorado professional engineer or certified professional
hydrologist.
   E.   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and municipal floodplain requirements and
regulations.
   F.   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities shall not
be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates through a floodway
analysis and report, sealed by a registered Colorado professional engineer,
that there is not more than a 0.00 foot rise in the proposed conditions
compared to existing conditions floodway resulting from the project, otherwise
known as a no rise certification, unless the community first applies for a
CLOMR and floodway revision in accordance with section
12-1-18 of this chapter.
   G.   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated portions of
watercourses so that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 508,
4-1-2013)
12-1-20: PROPERTIES REMOVED FROM FLOODPLAIN BY FILL:
A floodplain development permit shall not be issued for the construction of a
new structure or addition to an existing structure on a property removed from
the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA letter of map revision based on fill
(LOMR-F), unless such new structure or addition complies with the following:
   A.   Residential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill, or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that
the structure or addition is watertight to at least one foot (1') above the
base flood level that existed prior to the placement of fill with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads or effects of buoyancy. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-21: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be reasonably safe from flooding. If a subdivision
or other development proposal is in a flood prone area, the proposal shall
minimize flood damage.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of section
12-1-13 of this chapter, and the provisions of sections
12-1-15 through
12-1-22 of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
12-1-7 or subsection
12-1-12B of this chapter.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-22: CRITICAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Definition: A critical facility is a structure or related
infrastructure, but not the land on which it is situated, as specified in rule
6 of the rules and regulations for regulatory floodplains in Colorado, that if
flooded may result in significant hazards to public health and safety or
interrupt essential services and operations for the community at any time
before, during and after a flood.
   B.   Classification Of Critical Facilities: It is the responsibility of the
board of trustees to identify and confirm that specific structures in their
community meet the following criteria:
Critical facilities are classified under the following categories: 1) essential
services; 2) hazardous materials; 3) at risk populations; and 4) vital to
restoring normal services.
      1.   Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency
response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters, communications,
public utility plant facilities, and transportation lifelines. These facilities
consist of:
         a.   Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage, and, emergency operation centers);
         b.   Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers, urgent
care centers having emergency treatment functions, and nonambulatory surgical
structures but excluding clinics, doctor's offices, and nonurgent care medical
structures that do not provide these functions);
         c.   Designated emergency shelters;
         d.   Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting equipment
for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems, television, radio,
and other emergency warning systems, but excluding towers, poles, lines,
cables, and conduits);
         e.   Public utility plant facilities for generation and distribution
(hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations for water, power and
gas, but not including towers, poles, power lines, buried pipelines,
transmission lines, distribution lines, and service lines); and
         f.   Air transportation lifelines-airports (municipal and larger),
helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions, and associated
infrastructure (aviation control towers, air traffic control centers, and
emergency equipment aircraft hangars).
Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater treatment plants
(WWTP), nonpotable water treatment and distribution systems, and hydroelectric
power generating plants and related appurtenances.
Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the board of trustees that the facility is an element of a
redundant system for which service will not be interrupted during a flood. At a
minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant facilities are available
(either owned by the same utility or available through an intergovernmental
agreement or other contract) and connected, the alternative facilities are
either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with the
provisions of this chapter, and an operations plan is in effect that states how
redundant systems will provide service to the affected area in the event of a
flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the board of
trustees on an as needed basis upon request.
      2.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce or
store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water reactive
materials. These facilities may include:
         a.   Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);
         b.   Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable, explosive,
toxic and/or water reactive materials;
         c.   Refineries;
         d.   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and
         e.   Aboveground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.
Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities if they produce or
store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner of a facility is
required by the occupational safety and health administration (OSHA) to keep a
material safety data sheet (MSDS) on file for any chemicals stored or used in
the workplace, and the chemical(s) is stored in quantities equal to or greater
than the threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that chemical, then that
facility shall be considered to be a critical facility. The TPQ for these
chemicals is: either five hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed (whichever is
lower) for the three hundred fifty six (356) chemicals listed under 40 CFR
section 302 (2010), also known as extremely hazardous substances (EHS); or ten
thousand (10,000) pounds for any other chemical. This threshold is consistent
with the requirements for reportable chemicals established by the Colorado
department of health and environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can be found
in 29 CFR section 1910 (2010). The environmental protection agency (EPA)
regulation "designation, reportable quantities, and notification", 40 CFR
section 302 (2010), and OSHA regulation "occupational safety and health
standards", 29 CFR section 1910 (2010), are incorporated herein by reference
and include the regulations in existence at the time of the promulgation of
this chapter, but exclude later amendments to or editions of the regulations.
Specific exemptions to this category include:
(1) Finished consumer products within retail centers and households containing
hazardous materials intended for household use, and agricultural products
intended for agricultural use.
(2) Buildings and other structures containing hazardous materials for which it
can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local authority having
jurisdiction by hazard assessment and certification by a qualified professional
(as determined by the local jurisdiction having land use authority) that a
release of the subject hazardous material does not pose a major threat to the
public.
(3) Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage, and distribution centers that do not
manufacture pharmaceutical products.
These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other structures that also
function as critical facilities under another category outlined in this
chapter.
      3.   At risk population facilities include medical care, congregate care,
and schools. These facilities consist of:
         a.   Eldercare (nursing homes).
         b.   Congregate care serving twelve (12) or more individuals (daycare
and assisted living).
         c.   Public and private schools (preschools, K-12 schools, before
school and after school care serving 12 or more children).
      4.   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including government
operations. These facilities consist of:
         a.   Essential government operations (public records, courts, jails,
building permitting and inspection services, community administration and
management, maintenance and equipment centers).
         b.   Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices, and classrooms only).
These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to the board of trustees
that the facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will
not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that
redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same entity or
available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract), the
alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or
are compliant with this chapter, and an operations plan is in effect that
states how redundant facilities will provide service to the affected area in
the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided to the
board of trustees on an as needed basis upon request.
   C.   Protection For Critical Facilities: All new and substantially improved
critical facilities and new additions to critical facilities located within the
special flood hazard area shall be regulated to a higher standard than
structures not determined to be critical facilities. For the purposes of this
chapter, protection shall include one of the following:
      1.   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or
      2.   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation.
   D.   Ingress And Egress For New Critical Facilities: New critical facilities
shall, when practicable as determined by the board of trustees, have continuous
noninundated access (ingress and egress for evacuation and emergency services)
during a 100-year flood event. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
12-1-23: PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   Compliance With Chapter: No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 508, 4-
1-2013)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: A violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each and every day a violation of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, exists, or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 508, 4-1-2013; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Remedial Action: The town is specifically authorized to seek an
injunction, abatement, restitution, or any other remedy necessary to prevent,
enjoin, abate, or remove the violation. Any remedies provided for herein shall
be cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies
provided by law or in equity. (Ord. 508, 4-1-2013)
 
