MUNICIPAL CODE
OF THE
CITY OF CREEDE, COLORADO
(updated through 7-1-2025)
A Codification of the General Ordinances
of the City of Creede, Colorado
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
The City of Creede, a statutory Town, has published its Municipal Code in a
format which features the following:
The Table of Contents is the table containing each chapter and article title,
with reference to page location. Preceding each chapter is a chapter table of
contents, also identifying each article by the subject name provided.
The three-place section numbering system places the chapter number first,
followed by the article number and section number, separated by hyphens. Each
section may be cited by the chapter, article and section number which are in
sequence within each chapter.
The open chapter and page numbering system creates reserved chapter and page
numbers for expansion or revision of the code without undue complication when
changes are made to the code by supplementation.
The Disposition of Ordinances Table identifies the source for the contents of
the code. This table provides ordinance numbers in chronological order and
location by section number for the present code contents. Thus, if there is
interest in determining whether an ordinance, or a portion thereof, is
contained within the code, the Disposition of Ordinances Table will provide
that information. The Table of Up-to-Date Pages lists all of the current pages
through the most recent supplementation.
The Index provides references by common and legal terminology to the
appropriate code sections. Cross references are provided with the Index when
appropriate.
Supplements to the code provide regular updating of the code to maintain it as
a current compilation of all the legislation, which has general and continuing
effect. Without regular supplementation, the code would soon lose its
usefulness as a complete source of the general law of the municipality.
Supplementation is accomplished by the periodic publication of additions and
amendments to the code
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF CREEDE
Mayor
Jeffrey Larson
Mayor Pro Tem
Teresa Wall
Board of Trustees
Dana Brink
Lori Dooley
Frank Freer
Joel O’Connell
Kay Wyley
City Manager
Louis Fineberg
City Clerk/Treasurer
Krisen Buchanon
City Attorney
Karen Lintott
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 347
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CREEDE, A COLORADO TOWN, ADOPTING BY REFERENCE AND
ENACTING A NEW MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE CITY OF CREEDE; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL
OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF
SECONDARY CODES BY REFERENCE; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE
AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
Now, therefore, Be It Ordained by the Board of Trustees of the City of Creede,
a Colorado town, as follows:
Section 1.   The Code entitled the Creede Municipal Code published by Colorado
Code Publishing Company, consisting of Chapters 1 through 18, with Tables and
Index, is adopted.
Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before the adoption date of this Ordinance, which are inconsistent with the
provisions of the Creede Municipal Code, to the extent of such inconsistency,
are hereby repealed. The repeal established in this Section 2 shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that had been previously
repealed by any ordinance which is repealed by this Ordinance.
Section 3.   The following codes were previously adopted by reference and
incorporated in the Creede Municipal Code. One (1) copy of each is on file in
the City Clerk's office:
   (1)   The International Building Code and International Residential Code,
2003 editions, published by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted
and amended in Section 18-2-10, et seq.
Section 4.   The following codes are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated in the Creede Municipal Code. One (1) copy of each is on file in
the City Clerk's office:
   (1)   The Model Traffic Code for Colorado, 2003 edition, published by the
Colorado Department of Transportation, as adopted and amended in Section 8-1-
10, et seq.;
   (2)   The National Electrical Code, 2002 edition, published by the National
Fire Protection Association, as adopted and amended in Section 18-3-10, et
seq.;
   (3)   The International Mechanical Code, 2003 edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended in Section 18-4-10, et
seq.;
   (4)   The International Plumbing Code, 2003 edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended in Section 18-5-10, et
seq.; and
   (5)   The International Fire Code, 2003 edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended in Section 18-6-10, et
seq.
Section 5.   The penalties provided by the Municipal Code of the City of Creede
are hereby adopted as follows:
   (1)   Sec. 1-4-20.   General penalty for violation. (Chapter 1, Article 4,
General Penalty)
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this Code
for which a different penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding one (1) year, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, except as hereinafter provided in Section 1-4-30. In
addition, such person shall pay all costs and expenses in the case, including
attorney fees. Every day any such violation of this Code, or any other
ordinance or resolution of the City or any rule or regulation promulgated under
the provisions of this Code, continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (2)   Sec. 1-4-30.   Application of penalties to juveniles. (Chapter 1,
Article 4, General Penalty)
   Every person who, at the time of commission of the offense, was at least ten
(10) but not yet eighteen (18) years of age and who is subsequently convicted
of or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to a violation of any provision of this
Code, shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation or count. Any voluntary plea of guilty or nolo
contendere to the original charge or to a lesser or substituted charge shall
subject the person so pleading to all fines and/or penalties applicable to the
original charge. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit
incarceration in an appropriate facility, at the time of charging, of a
juvenile violating any section of this Code.
   (3)   Sec. 2-4-170.   Contempt power. (Chapter 2, Article 4, Municipal
Court)
      (a)   The Municipal Court shall have power to compel attendance of
witnesses and to punish for contempt of court. When the Court finds any person
to be in contempt, the Court may vindicate its dignity by imposing on the
contemnor a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), or a jail
sentence not to exceed five (5) days, and shall have all powers incident to a
court of record in relation to the same.
      (b)   In cases of indirect contempt, the alleged contemnor shall have all
the rights, privileges, safeguards and protections of a defendant in a petty
offense case, including but not limited to a formal written complaint,
arraignment and trial by jury.
   (4)   Sec. 6-1-40.   Suspension or revocation; fine. (Chapter 6, Article 1,
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses)
      (a)   Whenever a decision of the Board of Trustees, acting as the Local
Licensing Authority (hereinafter "Authority"), suspending a retail license for
fourteen (14) days or less becomes final, whether by failure of the retail
licensee to appeal the decision or by exhaustion of all appeals and judicial
review, the retail licensee may, before the operative date of the suspension,
petition the Authority for permission to pay a fine in lieu of having his or
her retail license suspended for all or part of the suspension period. Upon the
receipt of the petition, the Authority may, in its sole discretion, stay the
proposed suspension and cause any investigation to be made, which it deems
desirable and may, in its sole discretion, grant the petition if it is
satisfied:
         (1)   That the public welfare and morals would not be impaired by
permitting the retail licensee to operate during the period set for suspension
and that the payment of the fine will achieve the desired disciplinary
purposes;
         (2)   That the books and records of the retail licensee are kept in
such a manner that the loss of sales of alcoholic beverages which the retail
licensee would have suffered had the suspension gone into effect can be
determined with reasonable accuracy therefrom; and
         (3)   That the retail licensee has not had his or her license
suspended or revoked, nor had any suspension stayed by payment of a fine,
during the two (2) years immediately preceding the date of the motion or
complaint which has resulted in a final decision to suspend the retail license.
      (b)   The fine accepted shall be equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of
the retail licensee's estimated gross revenues from sales of alcoholic
beverages during the period of the proposed suspension; except that the fine
shall be not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      (c)   Payment of any fine pursuant to the provisions of this Section
shall be in the form of cash, certified check or cashier's check made payable
to the City Clerk and shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
      (d)   Upon payment of the fine pursuant to this Section, the Authority
shall enter its further order permanently staying the imposition of the
suspension.
      (e)   In connection with any petition pursuant to this Section, the
authority of the Authority is limited to the granting of such stays as are
necessary for it to complete its investigation and make its findings and, if it
makes such findings, to the granting of an order permanently staying the
imposition of the entire suspension or that portion of the suspension not
otherwise conditionally stayed.
      (f)   If the Authority does not make the findings required in Subsection
(a) above and does not order the suspension permanently stayed, the suspension
shall go into effect on the operative date finally set by the Authority.
   (5)   Sec. 7-3-30.   Abatement. (Chapter 7, Article 3, Refuse Regulations)
      (a)   Whenever the Board of Trustees shall direct, the City Manager or
City Clerk shall immediately thereafter notify any owner of property by
certified, return-receipt-requested mail, his or her agent or any person having
charge of such property, in writing, that an order has been made by the Board
of Trustees requiring the removal of any accumulated refuse from such property
or premises within thirty (30) days after service of notice. If such property
owner, agent or person having charge of such property does not remove such
refuse in accordance with the requirement of such order, the Board of Trustees
may order that such refuse be removed by the City Manager or other Trustee and
assess the cost thereof against the property or premises.
      (b)   The amount so assessed shall be a lien upon such property until the
same is paid; provided, however, that in case of failure to pay such assessment
within ten (10) days after the same is made, the City Clerk shall cause a
notice of such assessment to be given to the owner of such property by
publishing in a newspaper in the City for two (2) consecutive weeks, a notice
to such property owner of the amount assessed against his or her property, and
shall designate a time and place when the Board of Trustees will hear any
objections as to the adjustment and correctness of the amount so assessed. If
such assessment is not paid within ten (10) days after the time fixed for
hearing such objections, and unless the same are sustained, the City Clerk
shall certify such assessment to the County Treasurer, to be placed by him or
her on the tax list for the current year, to be collected in the same manner as
other taxes are collected, with a ten-percent penalty to defray the cost of
collection, as provided by state law.
   (6)   Sec. 7-4-40.   Charges for City collection services. (Chapter 7,
Article 4, Garbage Collection)
      (a)   The Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, establish charges for
collection service under this Article, prescribe the time and manner of payment
of such charges and adopt measures designed to enforce the payment thereof
that, in its discretion, are necessary or desirable. Such resolution, when
adopted, shall be of the same force and effect as if incorporated in this
Section.
      (b)   The amount of charges for garbage, rubbish, waste material and
ashes collection service shall be a lien upon the property served until the
same is paid. In case of failure to pay the established charges for garbage,
rubbish, waste material and ashes collection service by the owner or person
having the occupancy, control or management of any premises, within sixty (60)
days after the time prescribed for payment of such charges by the Board of
Trustees, the City Clerk shall cause a notice of such charge to be given to the
owner of such property by publishing in a newspaper in the City, for two (2)
successive weeks, a notice to such property owner of the amount of charges
assessed against his or her property and that, if such charges are not paid
within ten (10) days thereafter, the City Clerk shall certify such charges as
assessed to the County Treasurer, to be placed by him or her on such tax list
for the current year, to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are
collected, with a ten-percent penalty to defray the cost of collection, as
provided by state law.
   (7)   Sec. 8-2-30.   Snowmobile use restrictions. (Chapter 8, Article 2,
Snowmobile Regulations)
      (a)   Location.
         (1)   The use of snowmobiles within the City shall not be allowed,
except as follows:
            a.   Along Fifth Street, Third Street, Wall Street, Loma Avenue and
Capitol Avenue as a means of entering and exiting the City limits. Travel on
the above streets for any other purpose shall be illegal. All routes from
residences to the above exit streets shall be the most direct route.
            b.   During emergencies as declared by the Mayor or, in his or her
absence, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief, snowmobiles may be used for the
purposes designated by the Mayor, Chief of Police or Fire Chief.
         (2)   In addition to the above, a snowmobile may be operated on
streets and highways under the jurisdiction of the City only when such
operation is authorized by special ordinance or addition to this Code and
appropriate notice is given thereof, and then only in the manner and on such
streets prescribed by such ordinance consistent with the provisions of state
law.
      (b)   Speed. The maximum speed of snowmobiles within the City limits
shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      (c)   Right-of-way. Snowmobiles shall yield to all other street vehicles,
all of which shall have the right-of-way.
      (d)   Masts. All snowmobiles operating within the City limits shall have
a five-foot mast attached to the snowmobile in a vertical position, with thirty
(30) square inches of fluorescent flagging at the highest point of such mast.
      (e)   Hours. Snowmobiles shall not be operated within the City except
during daylight hours, without first obtaining permission from the Chief of
Police.
      (f)   Rallies. No rallies shall be held within the City without first
obtaining written permission from the Chief of Police.
      (g)   Penalty. Violations of any provision of this Section shall be
misdemeanors and punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   (8)   Sec. 10-8-100.   Possession of cannabis. (Chapter 10, Article 8,
Alcoholic Beverages and Drugs)
      (a)   For the purposes of this Section, the term cannabis shall include
all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or not; the seed
thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or resin; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced
from its stalks, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant, which is
incapable of germination. The term cannabis concentrate means hashish,
tetrahydrocannabinols or any alkaloid, salt derivative, preparation, compound
or mixture, whether natural or synthesized, of tetrahydrocannabinols.
      (b)   It is unlawful to possess one (1) ounce or less of cannabis or
cannabis concentrate, and upon conviction thereof, or plea of guilty or no
contest thereto, punishment shall not be by imprisonment, but shall be by a
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      (c)   It is unlawful openly and publicly to display or consume one (1)
ounce or less of cannabis concentrate, and upon conviction thereof, or a plea
of guilty or no contest thereto, punishment shall be as set out in Section 1-4-
20 of this Code.
      (d)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any person who
possesses or uses cannabis or cannabis concentrate pursuant to the Dangerous
Drugs Therapeutic Research Act.
   (9)   Sec. 10-10-50.   Penalties. (Chapter 10, Article 10, Noise)
      (a)   First offense: A first offense of any provision of this Article by
a person shall result in a warning.
      (b)   Second offense: A second offense of any provision of this Article
by a person shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
      (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: A third and subsequent offense
during a twelve-month period from the date of the first offense shall be
punishable be a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each subsequent
offense within the twelve-month period shall be punishable by a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      (d)   Payment deadline: All fees must be paid within twenty (20) days of
receipt of notice. If fees are paid after the twenty (20) days, an additional
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) will be charged.
   (10)   Sec. 11-1-20.   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks. (Chapter 11,
Article 1, Streets and Sidewalks)
      (a)   Purpose and scope. The purpose of this Article is to require,
according to the terms hereof, responsible parties to remove snow and ice from
sidewalks immediately adjacent to structures owned or occupied by them and to
require such removal within a specified period of time.
      (b)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply herein:
         Period of time means a twenty-four-hour period from the point in time
that snow, as defined herein, commences to fall or that point in time when an
accumulation of snow creates a hazardous condition, whichever comes sooner.
         Responsible party means that person, partnership, corporation or other
legal entity against which action may be taken for violation of this Article.
Responsible party may be, but not by way of limitation, the owner, lessor,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant of any structure. Responsible party shall also
mean that person owning, leasing, occupying or otherwise claiming a legal
interest in and to a particular lot, building or parcel within the City, and
which lot, building or parcel has a sidewalk adjacent to, in on any side and on
any street within the community.
         Sidewalk means any structure of any material, which had been placed
upon the ground or otherwise installed adjacent to any street within the
boundaries of the City, which is utilized as a sidewalk, for the purpose of
permitting the safe passage of persons on foot about the community, adjacent to
said street.
         Snow means any form of precipitation in the frozen form, be it snow,
sleet, hail, freezing rain or a build-up and accumulation of any of the
foregoing, causing a hazardous condition to persons attempting to use the
sidewalk.
      (c)   Penalty.
         (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
responsible party to permit the accumulation of snow on any sidewalk within the
City, for a period of time in excess of that set forth herein.
         (2)   Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and will be punished in accordance with the provisions
of Section 1-4-20 of this Code.
      (d)   Declaration of nuisance. The Board of Trustees hereby declares that
the accumulation of snow on any sidewalk within the City constitutes a public
nuisance and may, therefore, in addition to the penalty provision set forth
above, cause such accumulation to be removed from any offending sidewalk. The
cost of such removal shall be billed to the owner of such property or the
responsible party and shall be treated as a portion of that person's utility
indebtedness; and for nonpayment, such public utilities may be terminated until
payment is made in full.
   (11)   Sec. 11-2-50.   Penalties. (Chapter 11, Article 2, Excavations)
      Any violations of this Article shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of Section 1-4-20 of this Code. In addition, the City may seek an
injunction against continued operations which violate this Article.
   (12)   Sec. 13-2-20.   Limitation of liability. (Chapter 13, Article 2,
Ownership and Operation of Facilities)
      (a)   It is expressly stipulated that no claim for damages shall be made
against the City by reason of the following: blockage in the system causing the
backup of effluent; damage caused by "smoking" of lines to determine drainage
connections to City lines; breakage of water or sewer main lines by City
personnel; interruption of water or sewer service and the conditions resulting
therefrom; breaking of any collection or service line, pipe, valve or meter by
any employee of the City; failure of the water supply; shutting off or turning
on water; making of connections or extensions; damage caused by water running
or escaping from open or defective faucets; burst service lines and other
facilities not owned by the City; damage to water heaters, boilers or other
appliances resulting from shutting water off, or for turning it on, or from
inadequate or sporadic pressures; or for doing anything to the systems of the
City deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or its agents.
      (b)   The City shall have no responsibility for notification to customers
of any of the foregoing conditions. The City reserves the right to discontinue
temporarily service to any property at any time for any reason deemed necessary
or appropriate by the Board of Trustees. The City shall have the right to
revoke service to any property for violations of this Chapter in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this Chapter.
   (13)   Sec. 13-3-60.   Cancellation of application. (Chapter 13, Article 3,
Conditions of Use of Utility Systems)
      The City reserves the right to revoke any prior approval of an
application before service has been provided and, thereafter, for any violation
of this Chapter.
   (14)   Sec. 13-3-70.   Moved or destroyed buildings. (Chapter 13, Article 3,
Conditions of Use of Utility Systems)
      When buildings are moved or destroyed, the original tap authorization
shall terminate, and no credit shall be authorized for System Development Fees
paid previously with respect to said building. However, the original tap shall
remain in good standing, provided that uninterrupted payment of the City's
minimum service charge (as the same may be amended from time to time) is made.
If payment of the minimum service charge ceases for any reason, said tap shall
be in violation of this Chapter, and the tap shall be revoked. Nonpayment
within thirty (30) days of the billing shall be considered cessation of payment
of the minimum service charge.
   (15)   Sec. 13-3-80.   Change in customer's equipment, service or use of
property. (Chapter 13, Article 3, Conditions of Use of Utility Systems)
      (a)   No change in the customer's equipment, service or use of property
served shall be made without the prior notification of and approval by the
City. Any such change which, in the opinion of the City, will increase the
burden placed on the City's utility systems by the customer shall require a
redetermination of the System Development Fees and monthly service charge and a
payment by the customer of any additional System Development Fees and monthly
service charge resulting from the redetermination.
      (b)   Any violation of Section 13-3-90 below shall result in the
assessment of an unauthorized connection fee, and the City shall take those
steps authorized by this Chapter and state law regarding the collection of said
fees.
      (c)   Any customer believed to have changed the equipment, service or use
of his or her property in violation of this Section shall be notified of such
belief by the City, shall be notified of the City's intent to assess any
additional System Development Fees, service or unauthorized connection fees and
shall be afforded ten (10) days in which to respond to the City's notice.
Failure to respond as required herein within the ten-day period shall be deemed
to establish the City's belief concerning the nature and extent of the change,
and such additional System Development Fees, service and unauthorized
connection fees as are deemed appropriate by the City shall be assessed against
the property in question and shall be collected as provided under this Chapter
and state law. To defer the collection of said fees, and as a prerequisite to
the right to hearing as provided for and described in Article 7 of this
Chapter, any response by the customer must, in addition to being provided in
ten (10) days, include permission to make such inspection of the property in
question as the City Manager deems necessary to clearly establish the nature of
equipment, service and use of the property in question.
   (16)   Sec. 13-4-10.   Unauthorized tampering with systems. (Chapter 13,
Article 4, Water, Storm Drainage and Sewer Systems)
      (a)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, use, alter, disturb, make any
connection with or opening onto, use, alter or disturb the water, storm
drainage or sewer system without first obtaining a written permit from the
City. Unauthorized uses of the City's systems include, but are not limited to,
an unauthorized turn-on or turn-off of water, storm drainage or sewer service,
or tampering or in any way modifying any meter, even though the same may be
performed on a privately owned and maintained service line.
      (b)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any portion of the City's
system.
      (c)   Any person who violates the provisions of this Section shall be
prosecuted to the full extent of state law.
      (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of such violation; and, upon nonpayment thereof, at the demand of the City
Manager, shall be assessed a penalty in an amount set forth in the City's fee
schedule. Said penalty shall be a lien upon the violator's property, as allowed
by Section 32-1-1001, C.R.S., or a lien upon the property concerning which the
violator was providing services at the time of the violation in question,
whichever the City Manager deems appropriate.
   (17)   Sec. 13-4-80.   Construction and cleaning of grease, oil and sand
traps. (Chapter 13, Article 4, Water, Storm Drainage and Sewer Systems)
      Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at the sole cost and
expense of the customer when, in the opinion of the City Manager, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease, oil,
etc., in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients. All interceptors shall be located as to be readily available and
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be in
an accessible location for maintenance and inspection and shall be constructed
of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be watertight and, if necessary as determined by the
City, gastight and vented. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be maintained by the customer at his or her expense, in
continually efficient operation at all times. The City requires a monthly or
periodic cleaning and pumping of any grease traps as approved by the City
Manager. Periodic inspections shall be made of sand and grease traps and
interceptors, and, in the event the customer is in violation of this Chapter,
the customer shall be liable for payment of a penalty in an amount as set forth
in the City's fee schedule.
   (18)   Sec. 13-4-110.   Enforcement. (Chapter 13, Article 4, Water, Storm
Drainage and Sewer Systems)
      (a)   The responsibility of cleaning and maintaining all grease
interceptors and sand and oil traps shall be the customer's and/or owner's.
Grease interceptors and sand and oil traps shall be inspected periodically by
the City's maintenance contractor, and, if not properly maintained, the City
will initiate procedures to obtain compliance with this Chapter.
      (b)   The charge for these inspections to the customer and/or owner shall
be a direct pass-on of the expense to the City and shall be billed directly by
the City for all costs incurred by the City in inspecting the property.
      (c)   Discharge of sewage in any manner in violation of this Chapter is
hereby declared a public nuisance and may be corrected or abated as directed by
the City.
      (d)   Whenever a discharge of sewage or the operation of a grease
interceptor or sand or oil trap is in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter or otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination,
pollution or nuisance, the City will issue a written notice to correct the
practice within seventy-two (72) hours. If the practice is not corrected within
such time, the City may notify the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment and turn off water service or effect disconnection of the sanitary
sewage service line from the City's system, until such time as the City has
received adequate assurances that any and all violations of this Chapter will
cease and will not occur in the future. In addition, all of the costs of the
aforementioned proceedings shall be charged against the property and, until
paid, shall constitute a perpetual lien against the property.
      (e)   When a discharge of waste causes an obstruction, damage or any
other impairment to the City facilities, the City may assess a charge against
the customer and/or owner for the work required to clean or repair the facility
and add such charge to the customer's and/or owner's sewer service charge. The
City shall have such remedies for the collection of such costs as it has for
the collection of sewer service charges, and such costs, until paid, shall
constitute a perpetual lien against the property.
      (f)   Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provisions
of this Chapter or conditions set forth in permits duly issued shall be liable
civilly to the City. The City may petition the District Court to impose, assess
and recover such sums.
      (g)   In order to effect its powers, the City may enter upon private
property for the purpose of inspection and maintenance of sanitary and waste
disposal facilities and may terminate service to property in which a violation
of any of this Chapter is found to exist. Prior to termination of service, the
City shall notify, in writing, the owner and tenant, if any, of such property
that service is intended to be so terminated. Such notice shall be mailed to
the customer at the address of record, and a copy shall be delivered to the
owner and tenant or posted conspicuously on the property. The notice shall
state the date of proposed termination of service and the reasons therefor. In
the event of an emergency, the City may terminate service without prior notice;
provided, however, that subsequent notice of the termination shall be delivered
as set forth herein.
      (h)   The prohibitions against unauthorized discharge of wastes
proscribed in this Section include the dumping or pumping of wastes directly
into the City's manholes without the prior written consent of the City Manager.
   (19)   Sec. 13-6-140.   Penalty for late payment. (Chapter 13, Article 6,
Rates and Charges)
      (a)   Utility bills forty-five (45) days past due will be assessed a one-
percent monthly fee on any accrued outstanding balance. There will also be a
processing fee assessed the first month past due and, thereafter, an additional
fee per month as long as the bill is outstanding.
      (b)   At sixty (60) days past due, the customer will be sent a "water
shut-off" notice, allowing him or her thirty (30) days to bring his or her
balance current or make arrangements. All monthly billing shall continue with
all delinquent fees being assessed.
      (c)   At ninety (90) days past due, the water service will be shut off,
and the delinquent utility bill shall be collected with the authority and
procedures outlined in Section 13-6-150 below. All monthly billing shall
continue with all delinquent fees being assessed. The water shall not be turned
back on until all past due charges are brought current (including turn-off and
-on fees).
      (d)   Furthermore, if a public utility bill goes unpaid for twelve (12)
consecutive months, the water connection (tap) will be considered abandoned.
The water shall not be turned back on until all past due charges are brought
current and a new water connection (tap) fee is paid in full.
   (20)   Sec. 13-6-150.   Penalties for liens and foreclosure proceedings.
(Chapter 13, Article 6, Rates and Charges)
      (a)   By authority of Section 31-20-105, C.R.S., any municipality may
cause any or all delinquent charges levied to be certified to the County
Treasurer and be collected and paid by the County Treasurer in the same manner
as taxes are authorized by this Chapter.
      (b)   Each water charge levied shall be a lien therewith, and if the same
is not paid within ninety (90) days after it becomes due and payable, the City
Manager shall certify such unpaid rates or charges to the County Treasurer, to
be placed upon the tax list for the current year, to be collected in the same
manner as other taxes are collected, with ten-percent penalty thereon to defray
the cost of collection. The same shall be collected and paid over by the County
Treasurer to the City in the same manner as taxes are authorized to be paid by
all laws in the State. Such delinquent water charges may also be certified to
the Board of Trustees or County Commissioners and shall become a lien upon the
real property served by such water connection and collected in the same manner
as though they were part of the taxes.
      (c)   Except as specifically amended herein or in conflict with any
provisions hereof, all of the provisions of Ordinance No. 183 and Ordinance No.
184, as amended, and any subsequent ordinances or resolutions amending such
ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect.
   (21)   Sec. 18-1-160.   Removal by City. (Chapter 18, Article 1, Division 2,
Balcony Permits)
      If the record owner fails to comply with the order to remove the balcony,
the Board of Trustees may cause the balcony to be removed and charge the costs
thereof, plus up to fifteen percent (15%) of such costs for administration, to
the record owners of the adjacent property. If any record owner fails or
refuses to pay, when due, any charges imposed under this Section, the Board of
Trustees may, in addition to taking other collection remedies, certify any
unpaid charges, including interest, to the County Treasurer, to be levied
against the adjacent property for collection by the County in the same manner
as delinquent general taxes upon such adjacent property are collected.
   (22)   Sec. 18-2-50.   Penalties and fees. (Chapter 18, Article 2, Building
and Residential Codes)
      (a)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of
the codes adopted herein.
      (b)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted
herein shall be allowed five (5) business days to rectify the violation. If the
violation is not rectified in five (5) days, a cease and desist order will be
issued, and a fine not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each day of
violation from that date shall be imposed.
      (c)   The fees applicable to codes shall be amended by resolution of the
Board of Trustees.
Section 6.   Additions or amendments to the Code, when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the City to make the same a part of the Code, shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 7.   Ordinances adopted after this Ordinance that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to those provisions of the Code.
Section 8.   This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after
publication thereof.
INTRODUCED, PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED AT A REGULAR MEETING OF THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES OF THE CITY OF CREEDE, A COLORADO TOWN, ON NOVEMBER 12, 2008.
CITY OF CREEDE                     ATTEST:
(signature)                        (signature)                
Mayor, Rex M. Shepperd      Date            City Clerk, Pamela J. Wilson   Date
 
(SEAL)
CHAPTER 1
General Provisions
Article 1   Code
   Sec.
1-1-10   Adoption of Code
   Sec.
1-1-20   Title and scope
   Sec.
1-1-30   Code supersedes prior ordinances
   Sec.
1-1-40   Adoption of secondary codes by reference
   Sec.
1-1-50   Repeal of ordinances not contained in Code
   Sec.
1-1-60   Matters not affected by repeal
   Sec.
1-1-70   Ordinances saved from repeal
   Sec.
1-1-80   Changes in previously adopted ordinances
Article 2   Definitions and Usage
   Sec.
1-2-10   Definitions
   Sec.
1-2-20   Computation of time
   Sec.
1-2-30   Title of office
   Sec.
1-2-40   Usage of terms
   Sec.
1-2-50   Grammatical interpretation
Article 3   General
   Sec.
1-3-10   Titles and headings not part of Code
   Sec.
1-3-20   Authorized acts
   Sec.
1-3-30   Prohibited acts
   Sec.
1-3-40   Timeliness of action
   Sec.
1-3-50   Purpose of Code
   Sec.
1-3-60   Repeal of ordinances
   Sec.
1-3-70   Publication of ordinances
   Sec.
1-3-80   Amendments to Code
   Sec.
1-3-90   Supplementation of Code
   Sec.
1-3-100   Examination of Code
   Sec.
1-3-110   Copy of Code on file
   Sec.
1-3-120   Sale of Code books
   Sec.
1-3-130   Severability
Article 4   General Penalty
   Sec.
1-4-10   Violations
   Sec.
1-4-20   General penalty for violation
   Sec.
1-4-30   Application of penalties to juveniles
   Sec.
1-4-40   Altering or tampering with Code; penalty
   Sec.
1-4-50   Penalty for violation of ordinances adopted after adoption of Code
   Sec.
1-4-60   Interpretation of unlawful acts
Article 5   Inspections
   Sec.
1-5-10   Entry
   Sec.
1-5-20   Authority to enter premises under emergency
   Sec.
1-5-30   Announcement of purpose and authority to enter premises
Article 6   Seal
   Sec.
1-6-10   Corporate seal
ARTICLE 1
Code
Sec. 1-1-10.   Adoption of Code.
   The published code known as the Creede Municipal Code, published by Colorado
Code Publishing Company, of which one (1) copy is now on file in the office of
the City Clerk and may be inspected during regular business hours, is enacted
and adopted by reference as a primary code and incorporated herein as if set
out at length. This primary code has been promulgated by the City of Creede,
Colorado, as a codification of all the ordinances of the City of Creede of a
general and permanent nature through Ordinance No. 347, for the purpose of
providing an up-to-date code of ordinances, properly organized and indexed, in
published form for the use of the citizens and officers of the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-20.   Title and scope.
   This Code constitutes a compilation, revision and codification of all the
ordinances of the City of Creede, Colorado, of a general and permanent nature,
and shall be known as the Creede Municipal Code.
(Prior code 1-1-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-30.   Code supersedes prior ordinances.
   This Code shall supersede all other municipal codes consisting of
compilations of general and permanent ordinances and parts of ordinances passed
by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-40.   Adoption of secondary codes by reference.
   Secondary codes may be adopted by reference, as provided by state law.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-50.   Repeal of ordinances not contained in Code.
   All existing ordinances and portions of ordinances of a general and
permanent nature which are inconsistent with any ordinance included in the
adoption of this Code are hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistency
therein as of the effective date of the ordinance adopting this Code, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-60.   Matters not affected by repeal.
   The repeal of ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature by Section
1-1-50 of this Code shall not affect any offense committed or act done, any
penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract, right or obligation established
prior to the time said ordinances and parts of ordinances are repealed.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-70.   Ordinances saved from repeal.
   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts
of ordinances, although omitted from this Code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom, and the adoption of this Code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among the ordinances not repealed
or amended by the adoption of this Code are ordinances:
   (1)   Creating, opening, dedicating, naming, renaming, vacating or closing
specific streets, alleys and other public ways.
   (2)   Establishing the grades or lines of specific streets, sidewalks and
other public ways.
   (3)   Creating specific sewer and paving districts and other local
improvement districts.
   (4)   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation or specific local
improvement district bonds.
   (5)   Making special assessments for local improvement districts and
authorizing refunds from specific local improvement district bond proceeds.
   (6)   Annexing territory to or excluding territory from the City.
   (7)   Dedicating or accepting any specific plat or subdivision.
   (8)   Calling or providing for a specific election.
   (9)   Authorizing specific contracts for purchase of beneficial use of water
by the City.
   (10)   Approving or authorizing specific contracts with the State, with
other governmental bodies or with others.
   (11)   Authorizing a specific lease, sale or purchase of property.
   (12)   Granting rights-of-way or other rights and privileges to specific
railroad companies or other public carriers.
   (13)   Granting a specific gas company or other public utility the right or
privilege of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise using
the streets and alleys.
   (14)   Granting a franchise to a specific public utility company or
establishing rights for or otherwise regulating a specific public utility
company.
   (15)   Appropriating money.
   (16)   Levying a temporary tax or fixing a temporary tax rate.
   (17)   Relating to salaries.
   (18)   Amending the Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-1-80.   Changes in previously adopted ordinances.
   In compiling and preparing the ordinances of the City for adoption and
revision as part of this Code, certain grammatical changes and other changes
were made in one (1) or more of said ordinances. It is the intention of the
Board of Trustees that all such changes be adopted as part of this Code as if
the ordinances so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 2
Definitions and Usage
Sec. 1-2-10.   Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the City
of Creede and/or any codification of the same, shall be construed as defined in
this Section, unless a different meaning is expressly provided in any section
of this Code or unless such definition is inconsistent with the manifest intent
of the specific ordinance:
   Board of Trustees means the City Council of the City of Creede.
   City means the City of Creede, Colorado, or the area within the territorial
limits of the City of Creede, Colorado, and such territory outside of the City
over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional
or statutory provision.
   Code means the Creede Municipal Code as published and subsequently amended,
unless the context requires otherwise.
   County means the County of Mineral, Colorado.
   C.R.S. means the Colorado Revised Statutes, including all amendments
thereto.
   Day means the period of time between any midnight and the midnight
following.
   Daytime means the period of time between sunrise and sunset.
   In the City means all territory over which the City has, or shall hereafter
acquire, the jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   Law denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Colorado, the ordinances of the City and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   May is permissive.
   Misdemeanor means and is to be construed as meaning violation and is not
intended to mean crime or criminal conduct.
   Month means a calendar month.
   Nighttime means the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   Oath shall be construed to include an affirmation or declaration in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation or declaration may be substituted for an
oath, and in such cases the words swear and sworn shall be equivalent to the
words affirm and affirmed.
   Ordinance means a law of the City; provided that a temporary or special law,
administrative action, orders or directive may be in the form of a resolution.
   Owner, applied to a building, land, motorized vehicle, animal or other real
or personal property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common,
joint tenant, tenant by the entirety or any other person with a possessory
interest in the whole or a part of said building, land, motor vehicle, animal
or other real or personal property.
   Person means a natural person, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
joint venture, joint stock company, club, company, business, trust or other
organization acting as a group or unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer or employee of any of them.
   Personal property includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   Preceding and following mean next before and next after, respectively.
   Property includes real property and tangible and intangible personal
property.
   Public way includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, trail, right-of-way or other public thoroughfare.
   Real property includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   Shall and must are both mandatory.
   Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curbline and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   State means the State of Colorado.
   Street includes any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, court, place, square, curb or other public thoroughfare in the
City which has been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or
such other public property so designated in any law of this State, and each of
such words shall include all of them.
   Tenant and occupant, applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   Written includes printed, typewritten, photocopied, mimeographed,
multigraphed or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
   Year means a calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-2-20.   Computation of time.
   Except as provided by applicable state law, the time within which an act is
to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day;
however, if the time for an act to be done shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the act shall be done upon the next regular business day
following such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-2-30.   Title of office.
   Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission
means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the City, or
his or her designated representative.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-2-40.   Usage of terms.
   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the
common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate
meaning.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-2-50.   Grammatical interpretation.
   The following grammatical rules shall apply to this Code and to City
ordinances:
   (1)   Any gender includes the other genders.
   (2)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   (3)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and
vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
   (4)   Words and phrases not specifically defined shall be construed
according to the context and approved usage of the language.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
General
Sec. 1-3-10.   Titles and headings not part of Code.
   Chapter and Article titles, headings, numbers and titles of sections and
other divisions in this Code or in supplements made to this Code are inserted
in this Code, may be inserted in supplements to this Code for the convenience
of persons using this Code, shall not be deemed to in any way restrict, qualify
or limit the effect of the provisions set forth and contained in such section
or subsections, and are not part of this Code.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-20.   Authorized acts.
   When an ordinance or this Code requires an act to be done, which may as well
be done by an agent, designee or representative as the principal shall
construe, such requirement shall be construed to include all such acts
performed when done by an authorized agent, designee or representative.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-30.   Prohibited acts.
   Whenever in this Code or any City ordinance any act or omission is made
unlawful, it includes causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-40.   Timeliness of action.
   In all cases where any ordinance or this Code requires any act to be done in
a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the
prompt performance of such duty, or for compliance with such notice.
(Prior code 1-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-50.   Purpose of Code.
   The provisions of this Code, and all proceedings under them, are to be
construed with a view to affect their objectives and to promote justice.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-60.   Repeal of ordinances.
   The repeal of any provision of this Code shall not affect any right which
has accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceedings as commenced under or by virtue of the provision repealed, nor the
tenure of an office of any person holding office at the time when such repeal
shall take effect. The repeal of any provision of this Code or of an ordinance
shall not repeal the repealing clause of such ordinance or revive any provision
or any ordinance theretofore repealed or superseded.
(Prior code 1-1-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-70.   Publication of ordinances.
   All ordinances as soon as possible after their adoption shall be recorded in
a book kept for that purpose and authenticated by the signature of the Mayor
and City Clerk. The titles of all ordinances of a general or permanent nature,
and those imposing any fine, penalty or forfeiture, shall be published by
posting at three designated places within the city. Such ordinances shall not
take effect until thirty (30) days after such publication, except for
ordinances calling for special elections or necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety and containing the reasons
making the same necessary in a separate section. The excepted ordinances shall
take effect immediately upon adoption. (Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 221 §1, 1980;
Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 449 § 1, 2023)
Sec. 1-3-80.   Amendments to Code.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature, passed
or adopted as required by state law after the adoption of this Code, may be
passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this Code or without
specific reference to this Code. However, in either case, all such ordinances
and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to this Code, and all of the
substantive, permanent and general parts of said ordinances and changes made
thereby shall be inserted and made in this Code as provided in Section 1-3-90
hereof.
(Prior code 1-1-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-90.   Supplementation of Code.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall cause supplementation of this Code to be
prepared and printed from time to time as it may see fit. All substantive,
permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees or
adopted by initiative and referendum, and all amendments and changes in
temporary and special ordinances or other measures included in this Code prior
to the supplementation and since the previous supplementation, shall be
included.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, or someone authorized and
directed by the City Clerk, to keep up to date one (1) certified copy of the
book containing this Code, to be filed in the office of the City Clerk for the
use of the public.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-100.   Examination of Code.
   The Mayor, Mayor Pro tem or appointed Trustee and City Clerk shall carefully
examine at least one (1) copy of the Code adopted by this ordinance to see that
it is a true and correct copy of this Code. Similarly, after each supplement
has been prepared, printed and inserted in this Code, the Mayor, Mayor Pro tem
or appointed Trustee and City Clerk shall carefully examine at least one (1)
copy of this Code as supplemented. The copy of this Code as originally adopted
or amended shall constitute the permanent and general ordinances of the City
and shall be so accepted by the courts of law, administrative tribunals and all
others concerned.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-110.   Copy of Code on file.
   At least one (1) up-to-date copy of this Code shall be kept in the office of
the City Clerk at all times, and such Code may be available for public use in
the office of the City Clerk for inspection by any interested person at any
time during regular office hours. In addition, the City Clerk shall keep a
master copy, which shall be the Official Code of the City of Creede. Such Code
may not be removed from the City Clerk's office except upon proper order of a
court of law.
(Prior code 1-1-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-120.   Sale of Code books.
   Copies of this Code book may be purchased from the City Clerk upon the
payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-3-130.   Severability.
   The provisions of this Code are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, provision or part thereof shall be held unconstitutional or invalid,
the remainder of this Code shall continue in full force and effect, it being
the legislative intent that this Code would have been adopted even if such
unconstitutional or invalid matter had not been included therein. It is further
declared that, if any provision or part of this Code, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this
Code and the application thereof to other persons shall not be affected
thereby.
(Prior code 1-1-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 4
General Penalty
Sec. 1-4-10.   Violations.
   It is a violation of this Code for any person to do any act, which is
forbidden or declared to be unlawful or to fail to do or perform any act
required in this Code.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-4-20.   General penalty for violation.
   Any person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of this Code for
which a different penalty is not specifically provided shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($ 1,000). In addition, such person
shall pay all costs and expenses associated with the case, including attorney's
fees.
(Ord. 407, § 1, 2017)
Sec. 1-4-30.   Application of penalties to juveniles.
   Every person who, at the time of commission of the offense, was at least ten
(10) but not yet eighteen (18) years of age and who is subsequently convicted
of or pleads guilty or no 10 contendere to a violation of any provision of this
Code shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1
,000) per violation or count. In addition, such person shall pay all costs and
expenses associated with the case, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 407, § 2, 2017)
Sec. 1-4-40.   Altering or tampering with Code; penalty.
   Any person who shall alter, change or amend this Code, except in the manner
prescribed in this Chapter, or who shall alter or tamper with this Code in any
manner so as to cause the ordinances of the City to be misrepresented thereby,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided by Section
1-4-20 hereof.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-4-50.   Penalty for violation of ordinances adopted after adoption of
Code.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of any ordinance of a permanent
and general nature passed or adopted after adoption of this Code, either before
or after it has been inserted in this Code by a supplement, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided by Section
1-4-20 unless another penalty is specifically provided for the violation.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-4-60.   Interpretation of unlawful acts.
   Whenever in this Code any act or omission is made unlawful, it is also
unlawful to cause, allow, permit, aid, abet or suffer such unlawful act or
omission. Concealing or in any manner aiding in the concealing of any unlawful
act or omission is similarly unlawful.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 5
Inspections
Sec. 1-5-10.   Entry.
   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision of this
Code or any ordinance, or whenever there is probable cause to believe that
there exists an ordinance violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the City, any public inspector of the City may, upon
presentation of proper credentials and upon obtaining permission of the
occupant or if unoccupied, the owner, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon him or
her by ordinance. In the event the occupant, or if unoccupied, the owner,
refuses entry to such building or premises, or the public inspector is unable
to obtain permission of such occupant or owner to enter such building or
premises, the public inspector is empowered to seek assistance from any court
of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-5-20.   Authority to enter premises under emergency.
   Law enforcement officers certified with the State, members of the Fire
Department, other fire departments operating under a mutual assistance
agreement or automatic aid agreement with the City, certified emergency medical
technicians and paramedics during the course of employment with a governmental
agency are hereby granted the authority to enter private residences within the
City without invitation from the occupant of the residence at any time such
persons have reasonable grounds to believe a medical emergency is in progress
within the subject premises and the occupant of such premises is incapable of
consenting to the entry because of such medical emergency.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 1-5-30.   Announcement of purpose and authority to enter premises.
   Unauthorized entry pursuant to Section
1-5-20 shall be permissible only after the individuals seeking entry have
announced both their purpose and authority in a loud and conspicuous voice and
have waited a reasonable period of time for the occupant to respond before
making entry.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 6
Seal
Sec. 1-6-10.   Corporate seal.
A seal, the impression of which shall contain in the center the word "Seal" and
around the outer edge the words "City of Creede, Colorado," shall be and hereby
is declared to be the Seal of the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
CHAPTER 2
Administration
Article 1   Elections
   Sec.
2-1-10   Conduct of elections
   Sec.
2-1-20   Write-in candidate affidavit
   Sec.
2-1-30   Cancellation of election
Article 2   Mayor and Board of Trustees
   Sec.
2-2-10   Authority; terms
   Sec.
2-2-20   Qualifications and vacancies
   Sec.
2-2-30   Mayor
   Sec.
2-2-40   Mayor Pro Tem
   Sec.
2-2-50   Acting Mayor
   Sec.
2-2-60   Compensation
   Sec.
2-2-70   Regular meetings
   Sec.
2-2-80   Special meetings
   Sec.
2-2-90   Conduct of meetings
   Sec.
2-2-100   Order of business
   Sec.
2-2-110   Resolutions or motions
   Sec.
2-2-120   Adoption of ordinances
   Sec.
2-2-130   Voting procedures
   Sec.
2-2-140   Intergovernmental contracts
   Sec.
2-2-150   Oath
   Sec.
2-2-160   Boards and commissions
Article 3   Officers and Employees
   Sec.
2-3-10   Appointed officers
   Sec.
2-3-20   Powers and duties of officers
   Sec.
2-3-30   Oath of office; bond
   Sec.
2-3-40   Salaries and compensation of officers
   Sec.
2-3-50   Removal of City officers
   Sec.
2-3-60   City Manager
   Sec.
2-3-70   City Clerk
   Sec.
2-3-80   City Treasurer
   Sec.
2-3-90   City Attorney
   Sec.
2-3-100   Social Security
Article 4   Municipal Court
   Sec.
2-4-10   Definitions
   Sec.
2-4-20   Creation of Municipal Court
   Sec.
2-4-30   Original jurisdiction
   Sec.
2-4-40   Appropriations
   Sec.
2-4-50   Appointment of Municipal Judge
   Sec.
2-4-60   Qualifications of Municipal Judge
   Sec.
2-4-70   Oath of office
   Sec.
2-4-80   Compensation of Municipal Judge
   Sec.
2-4-90   Acting Municipal Judge
   Sec.
2-4-100   Court Clerk
   Sec.
2-4-110   Sessions generally
   Sec.
2-4-120   Traffic cases
   Sec.
2-4-130   Complaints; reports
   Sec.
2-4-140   Powers
   Sec.
2-4-150   Collection of fines
   Sec.
2-4-160   Suspension
   Sec.
2-4-170   Contempt power
Article 5   Police Department
   Sec.
2-5-10   Creation; composition
   Sec.
2-5-20   Departmental regulations
   Sec.
2-5-30   Chief of Police; appointment and duties
   Sec.
2-5-40   Duties of police officers
   Sec.
2-5-50   Oath and bond of officers
   Sec.
2-5-60   Uniforms
   Sec.
2-5-70   Extraterritorial duties
   Sec.
2-5-80   Reserve police; appointment, powers
   Sec.
2-5-90   Private police
   Sec.
2-5-100   Private police; shield
Article 6   Fire Protection
   Sec.
2-6-10   Agreements with organized fire districts
   Sec.
2-6-20   Providing fire protection outside City limits
Article 7   Rules of Procedure
   Sec.
2-7-10   Purpose and applicability
   Sec.
2-7-20   Quasi-judicial hearings
   Sec.
2-7-30   Rights of participants
   Sec.
2-7-40   Order of procedure
   Sec.
2-7-50   Rules of evidence
   Sec.
2-7-60   Deliberation and notice of decision
   Sec.
2-7-70   Judicial enforcement and review
   Sec.
2-7-80   Administrative hearings
   Sec.
2-7-90   Commencement of proceedings
   Sec.
2-7-100   Referral to hearing body
   Sec.
2-7-110   Public notice
   Sec.
2-7-120   Preserving order
   Sec.
2-7-130   Adjournments
Article 8   Emergency Protection
   Sec.
2-8-10   Purpose
   Sec.
2-8-20   Mayor's authority
   Sec.
2-8-30   Powers of Mayor
   Sec.
2-8-40   Penalties
Article 9   Planning and Zoning Commission
   Sec.
2-9-10   Creation.
   Sec.
2-9-20   Members.
   Sec.
2-9-30   Compensation.
   Sec.
2-9-40   Purpose
Article 10   Board of Adjustment
   Sec.
2-10-10   Establishment.
   Sec.
2-10-20   Meetings.
   Sec.
2-10-30   Compensation.
   Sec.
2-10-40   General rules.
   Sec.
2-10-50   Voting.
ARTICLE 1
Elections
Sec. 2-1-10.   Conduct of elections.
   (a)   All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Article
10 of Title 31 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, known as the Colorado
Municipal Election Code of 1965. The City may by ordinance determine to follow
all or part of the provisions of the Uniform Election Code for any election.
   (b)   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to approve the
conductance of either a mail ballot election or a polling place election by
duly passing a resolution ninety (90) days prior to the date of the scheduled
election.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 354 §§1, 2, 2009; Ord. 393 § 2 (part), 2015)
Sec. 2-1-20.   Write-in candidate affidavit.
   No write-in vote for any municipal office shall be counted unless an
affidavit of intent has been filed with the City Clerk by the person whose name
is written in prior to sixty-four (64) days before the day of the election,
indicating that such person desires the office and is qualified to assume the
duties of that office if elected.
(Prior code 2-7-1; Ord. 286 §1, 1992; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 393 § 2 (part),
2015)
Sec. 2-1-30.   Cancellation of election.
   (a)   If the only matter before the voters is the election of persons to
office and if, at the close of business on the nineteenth day before the
election, there are not more candidates than offices to be filled at such
election, including candidates filing affidavits of intent as set forth in
Section
2-1-20, the City Clerk shall certify such fact to the Board of Trustees; and it
shall hold a meeting and by resolution shall instruct the City Clerk to cancel
the election and shall declare the candidates elected.
   (b)   Notice of such cancellation shall be published, if possible, in order
to inform the electors of the City, and notice of such cancellation shall be
posted at each polling place and in not less than one (1) other public place
within the City.
(Prior code 2-7-12; Ord. 286 §§2, 3, 1992; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 393 § 2
(part), 2015)
ARTICLE 2
Mayor and Board of Trustees
Sec. 2-2-10.   Authority; terms.
   (a)   Authority. The Board of Trustees shall consist of one (1) Mayor and
four (4) Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall constitute the legislative body
of the City; shall have the power and authority, except as otherwise provided
by statute, to exercise all power conferred upon or possessed by the City; and
shall have the power and authority to adopt such laws, ordinances and
resolutions as it shall deem proper in the exercise thereof. The Board of
Trustees is given specific authority and power to appoint such other officers,
prescribe their duties and fix their compensation, as it may deem necessary for
the good government of the City.
   (b)   Terms of Trustees. Members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected
to serve terms of four (4) years. At each regular election, three (3) Trustees
shall be elected to serve four-year terms. (Prior code 2-1-1, 2-2-1; Ord. 198
§1, 1975; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 439 §1, 2022)
Sec. 2-2-20.   Qualifications and vacancies.
   (a)   Qualifications. Each Trustee shall be a resident of the City and a
qualified elector therein. If any Trustee shall move from or become, during the
term of his or her office, a nonresident of the City, he or she shall be deemed
thereby to have vacated his or her office, upon the adoption by the Board of
Trustees of a resolution declaring such vacancy to exist.
   (b)   Vacancies. In case of the death, resignation, vacation or removal for
cause of any of the Trustees during his or her term in office, the Board of
Trustees, by a majority vote of all remaining members thereof, shall have the
power, by appointment, to fill all vacancies in the Board of Trustees or in any
other elected office, from the duly qualified electors of the City. The person
so appointed shall hold office until the next regular election and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified. If the term of the person creating the
vacancy was to extend beyond the next regular election, the person elected to
fill the vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term. Where vacancies exist
in the offices of Trustee and successors are to be elected at the next election
to fill the unexpired terms, the three (3) candidates for Trustee receiving the
highest number of votes shall be elected to four-year terms, and the candidates
receiving the next highest number of votes, in descending order, shall be
elected to fill the unexpired terms.
(Prior code 2-2-1; Ord. 198 §3, 1975; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-30.   Mayor.
   (a)   The Mayor shall be elected to serve a term of four (4) years. The
Mayor shall meet the same qualifications as a Trustee and, in the event of a
vacancy in the office of Mayor; such vacancy shall be filled in the same manner
as a vacancy in the offices of Trustee, as set forth in Section
2-2-20 above.
   (b)   The Mayor shall preside over the meetings of the Board of Trustees and
shall perform such duties as may be required of him or her by statute or
ordinance.
   (c)   Insofar as is required by statute and for all ceremonial purposes, the
Mayor shall be the executive head of the City. He or she shall be the presiding
officer of the Board of Trustees and shall vote when there is a tie.
   (d)   The Mayor shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature such
bonds, warrants, contracts and instruments of and concerning the business of
the City as the Trustees or any statutes or ordinances may require.
   (e)   Except as may be required by statute, the Mayor shall exercise only
such powers as the Trustees shall specifically confer upon him or her.
(Prior code 2-1-2; Ord. 198 §2, 1975; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-40.   Mayor Pro Tem.
   At its first meeting following each biennial election, the Board of Trustees
shall choose one (1) of the Trustees as Mayor Pro Tem. In the absence of the
Mayor from any meeting of the Board of Trustees, during the absence of the
Mayor from the City or during the inability of the Mayor to act, the Mayor Pro
Tem shall perform the duties of the Mayor.
(Prior code 2-1-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-50.   Acting Mayor.
   In the event of the absence or disability of both the Mayor and the Mayor
Pro Tem, the Trustees may designate another of its members to serve as Acting
Mayor during such absence or disability.
(Prior code 2-1-4)
Sec. 2-2-60.   Compensation.
   (a)   The Mayor of the City shall receive such monthly compensation for his
or her services as set by ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Each Trustee of the City shall receive such monthly compensation for
his or her services as set by ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
   (c)   The compensation paid to any member of the Board of Trustees,
including the Mayor, shall not be increased or diminished for the term of
office for which he or she has been elected or appointed. Any Mayor or Trustee
who has resigned or vacated an office prior to the end of his or her elective
or appointed term shall not be eligible to election or reappointment to the
same during such term if the rate of compensation has been increased.
(Prior code 2-2-7; Ord. 305 §1, 1998; Ord. 311 §1, 2000; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-70.   Regular meetings.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday of
each month at the City Hall Meeting Room at a time agreed upon by the Board of
Trustees provided, however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national
holiday, such meeting shall be held on the next succeeding day not a holiday.
If a second monthly meeting is needed for any reason, it will be scheduled by
agreement of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 327 §1, 2002; Ord. 331 §1, 2003; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-80.   Special meetings.
   (a)   The Mayor may convene a special meeting of the Board of Trustees at
any time. In addition, any three (3) Trustees may call a special meeting of the
Board of Trustees. Whenever a special meeting is called, a notice in writing
shall be served upon each member of the Board of Trustees, either in person or
by notice left at his or her usual place of residence, stating the date and
hour of the meeting and the purpose for which such meeting is called. No
business shall be transacted at such meeting, except as is stated in the
notice. The City Clerk shall give such notice, at least forty-eight (48) hours
in advance of the special meeting.
   (b)   The Board of Trustees, at any duly convened meeting may, by majority
vote, call a special meeting for a future date. Notice of such meeting shall be
given to any Trustee not in attendance.
   (c)   Should the Board of Trustees convene for a special meeting pursuant to
a request of an interested party for the purpose of accommodating time
constraints of said interested party, the Board may, in its discretion, assess
fees for the special meeting against the interested party. The Board of
Trustees may from time to time by resolution adopt a schedule of fees, which
may be assessed for special meetings. Said fees shall reasonably compensate the
staff of the City and the City Attorney for time spent in preparation for
attendance at special meetings.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 439 §2, 2022)
Sec. 2-2-90.   Conduct of meetings.
   (a)   Conduct of meetings. Meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be
conducted by the Mayor, according to Robert's Rules of Order, Revised.
   (b)   Quorum. No action shall be taken unless a quorum is present. A
majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business at all
meetings of the Board of Trustees. A lesser number may adjourn from time to
time and compel the attendance of absent members. Any Trustee, at any regular
or special meeting, may, in writing, demand that attendance of the absent
members, which demand shall be entered on the record by the City Clerk, who
shall thereupon notify the absent members of the time and place of the meeting.
Each Trustee shall vote upon every question put by the Chair unless allowed to
abstain by the Board of Trustees. Upon the taking of any vote, the City Clerk
shall record in the minutes the names of those voting and their votes.
   (c)   Agenda. All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contracts, documents or other matters to be submitted to the Board of Trustees
shall be delivered to the City Clerk at least forty-eight (48) business hours
prior to each meeting. The City Clerk shall immediately arrange a list of such
matters according to the order of business. Each Trustee, the Mayor and the
City Attorney will be furnished with copies of the order of business, together
with a copy of the minutes of the last meeting, as time for preparation will
permit.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-100.   Order of business.
   (a)   Call to order. The Mayor shall take the chair precisely at the hour
appointed for the meeting, and shall immediately call the Board of Trustees to
order. The Mayor or temporary chairperson shall preserve the order and decorum,
decide all questions of order and conduct the proceedings of the meeting in
accordance with Subsection 2-2-90(a) above.
   (b)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the Board of
Trustees, the City Clerk shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes.
   (c)   Reading of minutes. Unless a reading of the minutes of a Board of
Trustees meeting is requested by a Trustee, the minutes of the preceding
meeting, which have been furnished by the City Clerk to each Trustee, shall be
considered approved if correct, and errors rectified if any exist.
   (d)   Reports by officers. City officials and/or committees shall present
such reports as may be required by the Board of Trustees.
   (e)   Old business. The Board of Trustees shall consider any business that
has been previously considered and is still unfinished.
   (f)   New business. The Board of Trustees shall consider any business not
previously considered, including the introduction or reading of ordinances and
resolutions.
   (g)   Petitions. The Board of Trustees shall hear petitions, remonstrances,
communications and comments or suggestions from citizens present. All such
remarks shall be addressed to the Board of Trustees as a whole and not to any
member thereof. Such remarks shall be limited to a reasonable time, and such
determination will be in the discretion of the presiding officer. No person
other than the individual speaking shall enter into the discussion without the
permission of the presiding officer.
   (h)   Other business. Prior to adjournment, the Board of Trustees shall, as
it deems necessary, consider such business as is not specifically provided for
herein.
   (i)   Adjournment. The Board of Trustees may, by a majority vote of those
present, adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to
adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate.
   (j)   Committees. Any question pending before the Board of Trustees may be
referred to the appropriate committee or to a special committee for its
consideration and report. When a question has been referred to a committee,
such committee shall report thereon with its recommendation at the next
meeting.
   (k)   Suspension of rules. Any of the provisions of this Section may be
temporarily suspended in connection with any matter under consideration by a
recorded vote of three-fourths (¾) of the members present, except that this
shall not be construed to permit any action that is contrary to state statute.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-110.   Resolutions or motions.
   Every subject coming before the Board of Trustees for its action shall be
submitted by resolution or motion, except as provided in Section
2-2-120 below. The City Clerk shall call the roll, and the vote thereon shall
be taken by ayes and nays.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Administration—Mayor & board of Trustees   §2-2-120
Sec. 2-2-120.   Adoption of ordinances.
   An ordinance shall be introduced and read in full at any regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees and may be passed and adopted at such meeting.
Such ordinance shall be duly adopted if it receives the required votes at its
first reading.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 221 §1, 1980; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-130.   Voting procedures.
   The Mayor shall not vote upon any question except in the case of a tie vote,
when he or she shall be allowed to cast one (1) vote. All ordinances,
resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money, resolutions or orders to
enter into contracts, and appointments of officers shall require for passage or
adoption the concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the Board of
Trustees. In all other matters, a majority of the votes cast is sufficient for
passage except in cases of special emergency for the preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, and then only by the affirmative vote of three-
fourths (¾) of the Trustees.
(Prior code 2-2-2; Ord. 221 §1, 1980; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-140.   Intergovernmental contracts.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority on behalf of the City to
enter into contractual arrangements with one (1) or more other local
governments for the performance of any governmental service, activity or
undertaking which could be performed by each of the local governments. Any such
contract shall set forth fully the purposes, powers, rights, obligations and
responsibilities, financial and otherwise, of the contracting parties. The
Board of Trustees may approve such contract by resolution or by ordinance.
(Prior code 2-2-3)
Sec. 2-2-150.   Oath.
   All members of Board of Trustees shall take an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State.
(Prior code 2-2-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-2-160.   Boards and commissions.
   The Board of Trustees shall create and appoint members to such boards and
commissions as may now or hereafter exist, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Board of Adjustments; and
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
Officers and Employees
Sec. 2-3-10.   Appointed officers.
   (a)   The following officers of the City shall be appointed by a majority
vote of all members of the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   City Manager;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   Municipal Judge; and
      (5)   City Engineer.
   (b)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 409 §1, 2017)
Sec. 2-3-20.   Powers and duties of officers.
   Appointed officers of the City shall have such powers and perform such
duties as are now or hereafter may be prescribed by state law and the
ordinances of the City, shall further perform any additional duties required by
the Board of Trustees and shall be subject to the control and orders of the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-30.   Oath of office; bond.
   (a)   When required by the Board of Trustees, each officer or employee,
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and subscribe
to an oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution
of the State and the ordinances of the City.
   (b)   In all cases where, by law, ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Trustees, a bond is required of any such officer, he or she shall make and
execute to the City a bond in such sum as is required, to be approved by the
Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of all duties
pertaining to such office, the proper care of all money or property of the City
coming into his or her hands and the proper accounting for or delivery of the
same. The Board of Trustees may provide that the City Treasurer shall make the
payment of premiums of surety bonds of any officer of the City from funds
designated by the Board.
(Prior code 2-2-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-40.   Salaries and compensation of officers.
   The Board of Trustees shall fix the compensation of all officers of the
City. The Mayor shall execute contracts with each officer which enumerates said
compensation and may detail duties of the appointed position as determined by a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 409 §2, 2017)
Sec. 2-3-50.   Removal of City officers.
   Any officer appointed by the Board of Trustees shall serve at the pleasure
of the Board and may be removed from office or suspended, with or without pay,
by a majority vote of all Trustees.
(Ord. 409 §2, 2017)
Sec. 2-3-60.   City Manager.
   (a)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees, at its first regular meeting of
each calendar year, shall appoint a City Manager. In the event a vacancy should
occur in the office, the Board of Trustees shall appoint some other person to
fill such unexpired term. The position of City Manager may be left vacant, at
the election of the Board of Trustees, at any time. The City Manager shall
serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Duties. The City Manager shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Act in an advisory capacity to the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Conduct assigned research.
      (3)   Prepare required reports and communications.
      (4)   Assist in the administration and enforcement of City policies and
ordinances.
      (5)   Assist in the preparation of the City budget and in the management
of City financial affairs.
      (6)   Have authority to sign reports, communications, applications and
similar documents in dealing with other governmental entities, agencies and the
like, but only to the extent that such documents, reports and communications do
not contractually bind the City. Accordingly, he or she shall not have the
authority to execute contracts.
      (7)   Perform such services as may be set forth in any annual contract
for services between the State, this City and other cities employing him or her
to the extent that the Board of Trustees shall request such services.
   (c)   Compensation. The Board of Trustees shall fix the compensation of the
City Manager. Such compensation shall be in accordance with state funding. In
the event that state funding of such position becomes inadequate or
nonexistent, the Board may forthwith terminate the employment of any person
holding the office.
(Ord. 234 §2, 1983; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-70.   City Clerk.
   (a)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees at its first regular meeting after
each biennial election shall appoint some qualified person as City Clerk. In
case a vacancy should occur in the office of City Clerk, the Board shall
appoint a City Clerk for the unexpired term.
   (b)   Oath and bond. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the City
Clerk shall take an oath of office and furnish a surety bond as set forth in
Section
2-3-30 above, conditioned upon the faithful performance of all duties
pertaining to the faithful discharge of his/her duties as City Clerk.
   (c)   Duties. The City Clerk shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Be the Clerk of the Board of Trustees, attend all meetings of the
Board of Trustees and keep a permanent journal of its proceedings.
      (2)   Be the custodian of all the City's records, and keep such records
open at all reasonable times for inspection by electors of the City.
      (3)   Certify by signature all ordinances and resolutions enacted or
passed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Provide and maintain in the office a supply of forms for all
petitions required to be filed for any purpose provided by the Board of
Trustees.
      (5)   Countersign all warrants drawn on the City Treasury.
      (6)   Be custodian of all bonds of all officers or employees of the City.
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
law or by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-4-1, 2-4-2, 2-4-3, 2-5-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-80.   City Treasurer.
   (a)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees at its first regular meeting after
each biennial election shall appoint some qualified person as City Treasurer.
In case a vacancy should occur in the office of City Treasurer, the Board of
Trustees shall appoint a City Treasurer for the unexpired term. The Board of
Trustees may in its discretion appoint the City Clerk as City Treasurer.
   (b)   Oath and bond. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the City
Treasurer shall take an oath of office and furnish a surety bond as set forth
in Section
2-3-30 above, together with an oath that, when he or she vacates the office, he
or she will turn over and deliver to his or her successor all monies, books,
papers, property or things belonging to the City and remaining in his or her
charge as City Treasurer.
   (c)   Duties. The City Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Receive all monies belonging to the City and give receipts
therefor; keep the books and accounts in such manner as may be prescribed by
the Board of Trustees; keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto; and report to the Board of
Trustees at each regular monthly meeting the state of the treasury at the date
of such account, and the balance of money in the treasury.
      (2)   Accompany such statement of accounts with a statement of all monies
received in the treasury and on what account during the preceding month,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. Such warrants and
their supporting vouchers shall be delivered and filed in the City Clerk's
office upon every day of such statement. All books and accounts of the City
Treasurer shall always be subject to inspection of any member of the Board of
Trustees.
      (3)   Annually within ten (10) days after the close of the fiscal year,
complete and file with the City Clerk a full and detailed account of all
receipts and expenditures of the City, and all of his or her transactions as
City Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and show in such account the
state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The City Clerk shall
immediately cause such account to be published in a newspaper published in the
City.
      (4)   If there are no funds available for the payment of any City warrant
presented to him or her for such payment, such warrants are to be kept in a
book by him or her for that purpose; endorse upon all such warrants the time
and date of such registry; and whenever he or she pays such warrant, enter the
payment and the amount of interest allowed or paid on such warrant in the
registry.
      (5)   Perform all other duties, keep all records and make all reports
that are required by other provisions of this Code or by state law.
(Prior code 2-5-1, 2-5-2, 2-5-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-90.   City Attorney.
   (a)   Appointment. The Board of Trustees at its first regular meeting after
each biennial election shall appoint some qualified attorney at law as the City
Attorney and shall fix his or her compensation. In case a vacancy should occur
in the office of City Attorney, the Board shall appoint a City Attorney for the
unexpired term.
   (b)   Duties. The City Attorney shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Act as legal advisor to, and be attorney and counsel for, the Board
of Trustees; be responsible solely to the Board of Trustees, advise any officer
or department head of the City in matters related to his or her official duties
when so requested by the Board of Trustees; file with the City Clerk a copy of
all written opinions given by him or her.
      (2)   Prosecute ordinance violations; conduct cases in Municipal Court
for the City, and file with the City Clerk copies of such records and files
relating thereto.
      (3)   Prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds and other
written instruments which are submitted to him or her by the Board of Trustees;
and promptly give his or her opinion as to the legal consequences thereof.
      (4)   Call to the attention of the Board of Trustees all matters of law,
and changes or developments therein affecting the City.
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him or her by
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-6-1, 2-6-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-3-100.   Social Security.
   In the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the extension of the social
security system to employees and officers of the City will be of great benefit
not only to the employees and officers by providing that said employees and
officers may participate in the provision of the old-age and survivors
insurance system, but also to the City by the efficiency of its government.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 4
Municipal Court
Sec. 2-4-10.   Definitions.
   As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   Municipal Court means the Police Magistrate's Court or Police Court.
   Municipal Judge means the Police Magistrate or Police Judge.
(Prior code 5-1-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-20.   Creation of Municipal Court.
   (a)   A qualified Municipal Court of record in and for the City is hereby
created and established pursuant to and governed by the provisions of state
law.
   (b)   A verbatim record of the proceedings and evidence at trial shall be
kept by electronic device. In addition, the clerk shall keep a record of all
cases tried or determined by the Court.
(Prior code 5-1-2; Ord. 343 §§1, 6, 2007; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-30.   Original jurisdiction.
   The Municipal Court shall have original jurisdiction of all cases arising
under the provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the City, with full
power to carry the same into effect and punish violators thereof by the
imposition of such fines and penalties as are prescribed in this Code or by
ordinance.
(Prior code 5-1-11; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-40.   Appropriations.
   The Board of Trustees shall annually appropriate an amount sufficient to pay
the salary of the City Attorney's office, the clerical help, office help,
office expense and expense of supplies necessary to carry out the provisions of
this Article.
(Prior code 5-1-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-50.   Appointment of Municipal Judge.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a presiding Municipal Judge,
appointed by the Board of Trustees for an indefinite term, or until a successor
is appointed and duly qualified. The Municipal Judge shall perform no other
duties during the hours that Municipal Court is in session except such as may
be approved by the Board of Trustees on motion or resolution. The Board of
Trustees may appoint additional judges from time to time as may be needed to
transact the business of the Court or to preside in the absence of the
presiding Municipal Judge. The presiding Municipal Judge shall supervise and
direct the Court's operations. The Board of Trustees for cause may remove any
Municipal Judge.
(Prior code 5-1-4)
Sec. 2-4-60.   Qualifications of Municipal Judge.
   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance or resolution, establish from time
to time such qualifications for the office of Municipal Judge as it may deem
fit, proper and consistent with the procurement of persons of judicial
temperament and ability.
(Prior code 5-1-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-70.   Oath of office.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the Municipal Judge
shall take and subscribe, before a judge of a court of record, and file with
the Board of Trustees, an oath or affirmation that he or she will support the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution and laws of the State and
the laws of the City, and will faithfully perform the duties of his or her
office. The Municipal Judge shall give bond to the City in an amount which
shall be approved by the Board of Trustees and be conditioned on the faithful
performance of the duties of the office of the Municipal Judge and for the
faithful accounting for the payment of all monies coming into his or her hands
by virtue of said office.
(Prior code 5-1-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-80.   Compensation of Municipal Judge.
   The Board of Trustees shall set the compensation for the Municipal Judge for
the City as other salaries to municipal employees.
(Ord. 187, 1972; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-90.   Acting Municipal Judge.
   In the case of temporary absence, sickness or other inability of the
Municipal Judge to act, the Mayor may appoint a competent person to act as such
Municipal Judge until the disability of the Municipal Judge is removed. Such
appointment must be in writing and cannot be a member of any City board or
staff.
(Prior code 5-1-10; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-100.   Court Clerk.
   The Municipal Judge shall serve as ex officio Court Clerk in accordance with
state statutes, unless a separate Court Clerk has been appointed by the
Municipal Judge by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 5-1-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-110.   Sessions generally.
   (a)   There shall be regular sessions of the Municipal Court for the trial
of cases as may be scheduled by the Municipal Judge, with the consent and
approval of the Board of Trustees. The Municipal Judge may, in his or her
discretion, hold special sessions of Court at any time, including Sundays,
holidays and evenings. In case of any conflict between the Municipal Judge and
the Board of Trustees as to said hours, the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall govern. All sessions shall be open to the public.
   (b)   Where the nature of the case is such that it would be in the best
interest of justice to exclude persons not directly connected with the
proceedings, the Municipal Judge may order that the courtroom be cleared.
(Prior code 5-1-13, 5-1-14; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-120.   Traffic cases.
   Insofar as it is practical, traffic cases shall be heard separately from
other cases. Where traffic cases and other cases are set for the same court
sessions, traffic cases shall be heard first.
(Prior code 5-1-15)
Sec. 2-4-130.   Complaints; reports.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive and examine affidavits and complaints at
all times for the violation of any City ordinance, and shall issue a summons or
warrant in every case where there is probable cause to believe that an offense
has been committed. The Municipal Judge shall file monthly reports with the
City Clerk of all monies collected, either in the way of fines or otherwise,
and shall on the last day of each month pay the City Treasurer all monies in
his or her hands. The reports shall state the number of cases filed in
Municipal Court, how the same were disposed of and other matters of information
concerning his or her office.
(Prior code 5-1-12)
Sec. 2-4-140.   Powers.
   (a)   The Municipal Court of the City shall hear and try all alleged
violations of ordinance provisions of the City.
   (b)   In addition to other powers, the Municipal Judge shall have all
judicial powers relating to the operation of the court, subject to any rules of
procedure governing the operation and conduct of Municipal courts promulgated
by the Colorado Supreme Court. The presiding Municipal Judge shall have
authority to issue local rules of procedure consistent with any rules of
procedure adopted by the Colorado Supreme Court.
(Prior code 5-1-8; Ord. 343 §§2, 3, 2007; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-4-150.   Collection of fines.
   All fines and costs collected or received by the Municipal Court shall be
reported and paid monthly to the City Treasurer and deposited in the General
Fund.
(Ord. 343 §5, 2007)
Sec. 2-4-160.   Suspension.
   The Municipal Judge may suspend a sentence or fine and place the violator on
probation for a period not exceeding one (1) year. Costs may be assessed
against a defendant found guilty as provided by law.
(Ord. 343 §4, 2007)
Sec. 2-4-170.   Contempt power.
   The Municipal Court shall have the power to compel attendance of witnesses
and to punish for contempt of court. Where the Court finds any person to be in
contempt, the Court may impose a fine on the contemnor not to exceed one
thousand ($1,000) per violation.
(Ord. 407, § 3, 2017)
ARTICLE 5
Police Department
Sec. 2-5-10.   Creation; composition.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the City, which shall
consist of one (1) Chief of Police (Town Marshal) and as many police officers
as may from time to time be deemed necessary for the safety and good order of
the City. The Board of Trustees, by intergovernmental contract as contemplated
by Section
2-2-140 of this Chapter may enter into a contract with Mineral County, to
provide police services and protection through the office of the County
Sheriff. In such event, the following shall apply:
      (1)   There shall be no Police Department for the City, nor shall there
be a Chief of Police (Town Marshal) or police officers.
      (2)   Any contract with the County shall place the Sheriff in the
position of an independent contractor.
      (3)   The office of the County Sheriff shall perform all of the duties
required and have all of the responsibility of and have the authority of the
Police Department under every provision of this Article and any other
provisions of this Code.
      (4)   Whenever in this Code reference is made to the Police Department,
the same shall be read as the office of the County Sheriff. Whenever reference
is made to the Chief of Police or Town Marshal, the same shall be read as the
County Sheriff. Whenever reference is made to police officers or deputies, the
same shall be read as the Sheriff's deputies.
      (5)   
2-5-60 of this Code shall not apply since the Sheriff, as an independent
contractor, will be paid pursuant to such contract; and
2-5-80 shall not be applicable.
(Ord. 251 §1, 1985; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-20.   Departmental regulations.
   The Police Department shall be operated and managed in accordance with such
departmental rules and regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-10-2)
Sec. 2-5-30.   Chief of Police; appointment and duties.
   (a)   At its first regular meeting following each biennial election, the
Board of Trustees shall appoint a Chief of Police who shall be the head of the
Police Department. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to:
      (1)   See that the ordinances of the City and the laws of the State are
duly enforced, the rules and regulations of the Police Department obeyed, and
perform such duties as may be required by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Direct the operations of the Police Department, subject to the
rules and regulations thereof.
      (3)   Arrest any person violating any of the City ordinances and take
such violator before the Municipal Court for trial.
      (4)   Take charge of the City jail, all prisoners confined therein and
all those who are sentenced to labor on the streets or public works of the
City, and see that orders and sentences with reference to such are fully
executed and complied with.
      (5)   Render such accounts of the Police Department, his or her duties
and receipts as may be required by the Board of Trustees, and keep the records
of his or her office open to inspection by the Board of Trustees at any time.
   (b)   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the Chief of Police
shall take and subscribe to an oath that he or she will support the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution and laws of the State and
ordinances of the City, and that he or she will faithfully perform the duties
of the office upon which he or she is about to enter.
   (c)   The Chief of Police shall furnish a surety bond in an amount to be
approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-10-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-40.   Duties of police officers.
   All members of the Police Department shall have power and duties as follows:
   (1)   They shall perform all duties required by the Chief of Police.
   (2)   They shall suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace,
apprehend all disorderly persons in the City, and pursue and arrest any persons
fleeing from justice in any part of the State.
   (3)   They shall be the enforcement officers of the City and shall see that
the provisions of this Code and the laws of the State are complied with. They
shall arrest without process all persons engaged in the violation in their
presence of any provision of this Code or the laws of the State. Upon such
arrest, they shall forthwith convey such offenders before the proper officer to
be dealt with according to law; provided, however, that they may incarcerate
any person they arrest at a late and unusual hour of the night until the
following morning; and provided further that, in the special cases relating to
traffic offenses, they may release an arrested person upon his or her written
promise to appear in court.
   (4)   They shall report such offenses as may come to their knowledge to the
proper City officials or they shall report the same to the Municipal Judge,
securing a warrant for the arrest of offenders when desirable.
   (5)   They shall execute and return all writs and processes directed to them
by the Municipal Judge in any case arising under a City ordinance, and they may
serve the same in any part of the County.
   (6)   They shall observe the condition of the streets, sidewalks and alleys
of the City and of any obstruction, nuisance or impediments therein, and shall
take necessary measures to remove or abate the same
(Prior code 2-10-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-50.   Oath and bond of officers.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, each police officer
shall take and subscribe an oath that he or she will support the Constitution
of the United States, the Constitution and laws of the State and the ordinances
of the City, and that he or she will faithfully perform the duties of the
office upon which he or she is about to enter. He or she shall also furnish to
the City a surety bond in an amount to be approved by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(Prior code 2-10-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-60.   Uniforms.
   Every police officer shall wear at all times while on duty a uniform of the
type and quality prescribed by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior code 2-10-7)
Sec. 2-5-70.   Extraterritorial duties.
   The Chief of Police may in his or her discretion, upon the request of a
Chief of Police or person exercising the functions thereof in any other
jurisdiction, assign police officers under his or her control, together with
such equipment as he or she deems to be proper, to perform temporary duty in
the requesting jurisdiction.
(Prior code 2-10-9)
Sec. 2-5-80.   Reserve police; appointment, powers.
   The Mayor may, upon any emergency, riot, pestilence, invasion or at any time
he or she deems it necessary for the peace, good order or health of the City,
order the Chief of Police to appoint reserve police officers for a specified
time, not exceeding two (2) days, without the approval of the Board of
Trustees. He or she may also, with the approval of a majority of the Board of
Trustees, order the Chief of Police to appoint such number of reserve police
officers as may be agreed upon, to serve upon days of election, public
celebration and holidays, and said reserve police officers shall have and
possess all the powers and privileges of regular police officers during the
time for which they may be appointed.
(Prior code 2-10-10; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-90.   Private police.
   Any person desiring the services of a special police officer in or about his
or her property or place of business, upon agreeing to defray all expenses of
maintenance of such special police officers, upon application to the Board of
Trustees, may have any suitable person named for special police officers duly
appointed as such. Such special police officers shall take the usual oath of
office and shall have the powers of a regular police officer in and upon the
premises for which he or she may have been appointed, but not elsewhere.
However, special police officers so appointed shall be under the control of the
Chief of Police. The person at whose instance such officer was appointed shall
be responsible for the expense of such officer, and the City shall in no case
incur any liability whatsoever by reason of the appointment of such special
police officers. No person appointed as a special police officer under the
terms of this Section shall be considered a member of the Police Department.
(Prior code 2-10-11; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-5-100.   Private police; shield.
   All special or reserve police officers shall wear a shield having inscribed
thereon "Special police officer" while on duty. It shall be unlawful for any
special police officer to wear his or her badge or shield when he or she is not
performing the duties for which he or she was employed.
(Prior code 2-10-12; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 6
Fire Protection
Sec. 2-6-10.   Agreements with organized fire districts.
   The Board of Trustees may from time to time enter into agreements for the
joint use of facilities, buildings and equipment with fire districts organized
under the laws of the State.
(Prior code 2-12-7)
Sec. 2-6-20.   Providing fire protection outside City limits.
   The City is hereby authorized to enter into agreements or contracts to
furnish fire protection within the City or to enter into mutual aid agreements.
The members of the Fire Department are authorized and directed to render
firefighting service to communities, organizations, owners or occupants of
premises outside the corporate limits of the City. Such service shall only be
rendered subject to the terms of the agreement or contract entered into by the
City.
(Prior code 2-12-8)
ARTICLE 7
Rules of Procedure
Sec. 2-7-10.   Purpose and applicability.
   The purpose of this Article is to provide a uniform, consistent and
expeditious method of procedure for the conduct of all hearings held before the
Board of Trustees, or commission of the City. The provisions of this Article
shall be applied uniformly in all such hearings; provided, however that any
Board of Trustees, commission or official may supplement the provisions of this
Article by the adoption of further rules or procedure not inconsistent
herewith. All rules adopted to supplement the provisions of this Article by any
Trustee, commission or official shall be reduced to writing and copies thereof
shall be made available to the public.
(Prior code 2-9-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-7-20.   Quasi-judicial hearings.
   The provisions of this Section and Sections
2-7-30 through
2-7-70 shall be applicable only to those hearings where the Board of Trustees,
commission or official is called upon to exercise a power of a judicial or
quasi-judicial nature, which, for purposes of this Article, shall be deemed to
consist of the following:
   (1)   Hearings before the Board of Trustees, upon application for the
issuance or hearings for the suspension or revocation of a liquor or fermented
malt beverage license; upon ordinances which zone or rezone realty; and upon
all appeals from the decisions of any City official, Trustee or commission,
where such an appeal is otherwise authorized, and which requires an evidentiary
hearing to determine such appeal.
   (2)   Hearings before the Board of Adjustment upon appeals from any decision
of the Building Inspector or upon request for a variance or exception from the
terms of any ordinance or any provision of this Code.
   (3)   Hearings before the Board of Trustees or any City commission
respecting the issuance, suspension or revocation of any license issued by the
City.
(Prior code 2-9-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-7-30.   Rights of participants.
   All quasi-judicial hearings shall be conducted under procedures designed to
ensure due process of law for all interested parties and shall, in all cases,
provide for the following:
   (1)   The administration of oaths to all parties or witnesses who appear for
the purpose of testifying upon factual matters.
   (2)   The cross-examination, upon request, of all witnesses by the
interested parties.
   (3)   The stenographic or verbatim reproduction of all testimony presented
in the hearing, or an adequate summary of such testimony.
   (4)   A clear decision by the hearing body, which shall set forth the
factual bases and reasons for the decision rendered.
(Prior code 2-9-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-7-40.   Order of procedure.
   (a)   In all quasi-judicial hearings, the following order of procedure shall
be followed:
      (1)   Presentation of those documents showing the regularity of the
commencement of the proceedings and the form of the public notice given.
      (2)   Presentation of evidence by the applicant, petitioner, appealing
party or complainant.
      (3)   Presentation of evidence in support of the applicant, petitioner,
appealing party or complainant by any other person.
      (4)   Presentation of evidence from any person opposing the application,
petition, appeal or complaint.
      (5)   Presentation of evidence in opposition or rebuttal to the matters
presented by the opposition.
   (b)   All documents or other items of physical evidence shall be marked as
exhibits with such identifying symbols as may be necessary to determine the
exhibit referred to by any witness or other person.
(Prior code 2-9-4)
Sec. 2-7-50.   Rules of evidence.
   The hearing body shall not be required to observe any formal rules of
evidence, but may consider any matter which a majority thereof concludes is
reasonably reliable and calculated to aid the hearing body in reaching an
accurate determination of the issues involved.
(Prior code 2-9-5)
Sec. 2-7-60.   Deliberation and notice of decision.
   Each hearing body is hereby authorized to deliberate upon issues presented
at the hearing in private, nonpublic sessions; provided that no decision shall
be effective, except upon a vote of the members of the hearing body, conducted
in an open session thereof, which shall be duly recorded in the minutes of the
public body. Written copies of all decisions shall be delivered to the
applicant, petitioner, appellant, complainant and other interested party
requesting the same.
(Prior code 2-9-6)
Sec. 2-7-70.   Judicial enforcement and review.
   Any party aggrieved by any decision rendered by the hearing body in any
quasi-judicial hearing, as well as department heads or authorized officials of
the City, or the City itself, may apply to have said decision reviewed by a
court of competent jurisdiction, in accordance with the provisions of the
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior code 2-9-7)
Sec. 2-7-80.   Administrative hearings.
   All other hearings before the Board of Trustees or any City commission or
official shall be deemed to be administrative hearings, the purpose of which is
to obtain information to enable the Board of Trustees to determine legislative
policy, or to enable the Board of Trustees or City commission or official to
make recommendations to the Board of Trustees on pending legislation. Such
hearings shall be conducted in compliance with the provisions of Sections 2-7-
90 through 2-7-130 below and in such a manner so as to enable any person
desiring to be heard a reasonable opportunity for the presentation of his or
her views.
(Prior code 2-9-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-7-90.   Commencement of proceedings.
   All proceedings conducted pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall
be commenced in the manner provided by the ordinance or statute governing the
matter.
(Prior code 2-9-9)
Sec. 2-7-100.   Referral to hearing body.
   Upon receipt by the City Clerk or the secretary of any Board, commission or
other appropriate officer of the City of any application, petition, notice of
appeal, complaint or other instrument initiating a hearing, the same shall be
referred to the Board of Trustees, City commission or official having
jurisdiction over the matter, and a date, time and place for hearing thereon
shall be set by said Board, commission or official, who shall direct that
public notice thereof be given; provided, however, that the Board of Trustees,
City commission or official may authorize its clerk or secretary to set a date,
time and place for hearing upon receipt of such instrument without the
necessity for action by the Board of Trustees, City commission or official.
(Prior code 2-9-10)
Sec. 2-7-110.   Public notice.
   Public notice of the date, time and place of the public hearing shall be
given in the manner provided by ordinance or statute. In the absence of
provisions specifically delineating the manner in which public notice is to be
given, notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the hearing to be held
shall be published once in that newspaper designated by the Board of Trustees,
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of said hearing.
(Prior code 2-9-11)
Sec. 2-7-120.   Preserving order.
   Each hearing body shall have the right to preserve order during the hearing
and to take such steps, including the ejection of any disorderly or
obstreperous persons interfering with the proceedings as may be necessary. The
hearing body may, prior to any presentations and as a condition to the taking
of testimony or information from any person, require the registration of all
persons desiring to be heard during the hearings. It may restrict the testimony
of any person to the material uses pending before it and, to prevent duplicate
or cumulative presentations, it may impose reasonable time restrictions on any
person.
(Prior code 2-9-12)
Sec. 2-7-130.   Adjournments.
   After commencement of any hearing, the hearing body may, if it is deemed
necessary to obtain a full presentation, adjourn the hearing from time to time
by publicly announcing the fact of such adjournment and the date, time and
place when and where the adjourned hearing shall recommence, without the
necessity of any further published noticed thereof.
(Prior code 2-9-13)
ARTICLE 8
Emergency Protection
Sec. 2-8-10.   Purpose.
   The City will from time to time in the future in all probabilities have
within its corporate limits fire, flood, civil disturbances and riots; and
therefore, it is deemed in the best interest of the City to exercise certain
emergency police powers necessary to and incidental to the maintenance of the
safety, health and welfare of the citizens of the City.
(Prior code 2-11-1)
Sec. 2-8-20.   Mayor's authority.
   Emergency police powers shall be placed in the hands of the Mayor. These
powers should be exercised only in the event of an emergency as herein
contemplated and shall only be exercised for such a period of time, as the
actual emergency exists. Said powers shall only be invoked after a declaration
and proclamation of an emergency.
(Prior code 2-11-2)
Sec. 2-8-30.   Powers of Mayor.
   In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this Code, the Mayor shall
have further emergency powers as necessary to preserve the peace and order of
the City, as follows:
   (1)   The Mayor shall have the power to declare an emergency to exist when,
in his or her opinion, one (1) or more of the following conditions exist:
      a.   There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or
property due to unusual conditions.
      b.   Unusual or extreme weather conditions make the use of City streets
or areas difficult or impossible.
      c.   Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
      d.   There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major
portion of the City.
   (2)   The emergency shall be declared in a proclamation of the Mayor, which
proclamation shall be delivered to the designated law enforcement official. The
designated law enforcement official shall then see that said proclamation is
delivered to all news media within the City and shall also use public address
systems throughout the City to immediately notify the public of said
proclamation and that violators will be arrested and subject to penalty.
   (3)   After declaration of such emergency, the Mayor shall have the
authority to exercise any or all of the following powers:
      a.   To call upon regular and auxiliary enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the City to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace and the preservation of life and property of the citizenry of the
City.
      b.   To close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the
City wherein an emergency exists.
      c.   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the City, thereby
requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove
themselves from public streets, alleys, parks or other public places; provided,
however, that physicians, nurses and ambulance operators performing medical
services, utility personnel maintaining essential public services, firefighters
and City-authorized or City-requested enforcement officers and personnel may be
exempted from such curfew.
      d.   To order the closing of any business establishments anywhere within
the City for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not
be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, malt beverages, gasoline or
firearms.
      e.   To do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation
of life, limb and property within the City.
   (4)   The proclamation specifying with exactness the area in which the
emergency is declared to exist shall become effective upon its issuance and
dissemination to the public by the appropriate news media.
   (5)   Duration of emergency.
      a.   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this
Article shall terminate after forty-eight (48) hours from the issuance thereof,
or upon the issuance of a proclamation determining that an emergency no longer
exists, whichever occurs first; provided, however, that upon declaration of a
second or further emergencies, the emergency powers set forth herein may be
exercised during such further emergency period or periods, but never for more
than forty-eight (48) hours in one (1) declared emergency period.
      b.   No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or
called meeting of the Board of Trustees unless at such a meeting the
declaration of emergency is specifically approved by resolution of the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior code 2-11-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 2-8-40.   Penalties.
   Any person who shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with the order of
duly authorized law enforcement officers or personnel charged with the
responsibility of enforcing the proclamation of emergency authorized herein
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished in accordance with the provisions of
1-4-20 of this Code.
(Prior code 2-11-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 9
Planning and Zoning Commission
Sec. 2-9-10. Creation.
   Pursuant to state law, there is hereby created a Planning and Zoning
Commission (PZC) as an advisory board for the City as set forth in Sections 31-
23-202 and 31-23-306, C.R.S.
(Ord. 421 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 2-9-20. Members.
   The policies and procedures of the PZC shall be developed by the PZC and
approved by the Board of Trustees. The PZC shall consist of five (5) members,
composed of the Mayor and a member of the governing body as ex officio members
and three (3) persons appointed by the Board of Trustees. All members shall be
entitled to vote and act with the full authority and powers set forth in this
Article 9. All members shall be bona fide residents of the Municipality. The
term of each appointed member shall be four (4) years, and the term of the
members of the governing body will end with their respective term expiration.
Failure by any member to attend three (3) or more meetings in any calendar
year, or any other action or inaction that renders a member incapable of
performing the duties conferred upon that member by virtue of the appointed
position, shall constitute grounds for removal of said member. Removal of any
PZC member shall be by majority vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 421 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 2-9-30. Compensation.
   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, and the
appointed members shall hold no other Municipal office.
(Ord. 421 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 2-9-40.   Purpose.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission is created for the following purposes:
   (1)   To prepare and maintain, subject to periodic revision as necessary, a
Master Plan as described by state statutes.
   (2)   To perform all functions and powers conferred upon it by the City of
Creede Municipal Code.
   (3)   To study and recommend to the Board of Trustees amendments to the
Zoning Map of the City.
   (4)   To study and recommend appropriate zoning classifications for all
annexations to the City.
   (5)   To exchange information with the various governmental agencies charged
with planning and zoning responsibilities and with the Board of Adjustment.
   (6)   To have all other duties and powers incidental to the above and any
and all powers and duties set out by state statute, except that nothing herein
shall permit the Planning Commission to make amendments or changes in the
zoning of the City, such powers expressly being reserved by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 421 § 1, 2020)
ARTICLE 10
Board of Adjustment
Sec. 2-10-10. Establishment.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established in accordance with C.R.S. § 31-
23-207, C.R.S. The membership of the Board of Adjustment shall be composed of
the membership of the Planning and Zoning Commission, as established by
Article 9 of this Chapter. The qualifications for membership, terms of
membership, filling of vacancies and removal of members shall be according to
the same laws and rules as are applicable for the Planning and Zoning
Commission members.
(Ord. 369 §2, 2011)
Sec. 2-10-20. Meetings.
   The meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be scheduled as necessary when
variance applications or appeals are submitted to the City. Generally, meetings
of the Board of Adjustment shall be scheduled to coincide with meetings of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, as is convenient.
(Ord. 369 §2, 2011)
Sec. 2-10-30. Compensation.
   Each member of the Board of Adjustment shall be paid per meeting for each
meeting as determined by ordinance by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 369 §2, 2011)
Sec. 2-10-40. General rules.
   The Board of Adjustment shall follow the general rules and procedures of the
Planning and Zoning Commission. The Board of Adjustment may adopt
specific rules which are consistent with the provisions of this Article. The
Chairperson and Acting Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment shall be the same
as the respective position with the Planning and Zoning Commission. The
Chairpersons and/or Acting Chairperson may schedule meetings of the Board of
Adjustment. The Chairperson and/or Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses by application to the district court. The
court, upon proper showing, may issue subpoenas and enforce obedience by
contempt proceedings. All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board of
Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each
member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact. It shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all
of which shall be a public record and immediately filed in the Town Hall.
(Ord. 369 §2, 2011)
Sec. 2-10-50. Voting.
   The concurring vote of four ( 4) members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
(Ord. 369 §2, 2011)
CHAPTER 3
Reserved
CHAPTER 4
Revenue and Finance
Article 1   Fiscal Year
   Sec.
4-1-10   Fiscal year established
Article 2   General and Special Funds
   Sec.
4-2-10   Custody and management of funds
   Sec.
4-2-20   General Fund created
   Sec.
4-2-30   Capital Improvements Fund created
   Sec.
4-2-40   Conservation Trust Fund created
   Sec.
4-2-50   Trash Fund created
   Sec.
4-2-60   Virginia Christensen Fund created
   Sec.
4-2-70   Water and Sewer Fund created
Article 3   Sales Tax
   Sec.
4-3-10   Purpose
   Sec.
4-3-20   Definitions
   Sec.
4-3-30   Schedule of tax
   Sec.
4-3-40   Sales tax regulations
   Sec.
4-3-50   Exemptions from sales tax
   Sec.
4-3-60   Location of business
   Sec.
4-3-70   Collection, administration and enforcement
   Sec.
4-3-80   Penalties
Article 4   Purchasing and Procurement
   Sec.
4-4-10   Designation of Purchasing Agent
   Sec.
4-4-20   Formal contract procedure
   Sec.
4-4-30   Bidding
   Sec.
4-4-40   Award to lowest bidder; advertising, when required
   Sec.
4-4-50   Bid deposits
   Sec.
4-4-60   Sealed bid procedures
   Sec.
4-4-70   Materials testing
   Sec.
4-4-80   Financial interest of City officials and employees prohibited
   Sec.
4-4-90   Records of open market orders and bids
   Sec.
4-4-100   Stock reports
   Sec.
4-4-110   Surplus stock
   Sec.
4-4-120   Supplies unsuitable for public use, sale or exchange
   Sec.
4-4-130   Gifts and rebates
   Sec.
4-4-140   Cooperative purchasing
ARTICLE 1
Fiscal Year
Sec. 4-1-10.   Fiscal year established.
   The fiscal year of the City shall commence on January 1 of each year and
shall extend through December 31 of the same year.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 2
General and Special Funds
Sec. 4-2-10.   Custody and management of funds.
   Monies in the funds created in this Chapter shall be in the custody of and
managed by the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall maintain accounting
records and account for all of said monies as provided by law. Monies in the
funds of the City shall be invested or deposited by the City Treasurer in
accordance with the provisions of law. All income from the assets of any fund
shall become a part of the fund from which derived and shall be used for the
purpose for which such fund was created; provided that, except as otherwise
provided in this Code or by other ordinances or laws, the Board of Trustees may
transfer out of any fund any amount at any time to be used for such purpose as
the Board of Trustees may direct.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-2-20.   General Fund created.
   There is hereby created a fund, to be known as the General Fund, which shall
consist of the following:
   (1)   All cash balances of the City not specifically belonging to any
existing special fund of the City.
   (2)   All fixed assets of the City (to be separately designated in an
account known as the General Fund Fixed Assets) not specifically belonging to
any existing special fund of the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-2-30.   Capital Improvements Fund created.
   There is hereby created a special fund, to be known as the Capital
Improvements Fund. All revenue received by the City as a result of the one-
percent increase in local sales tax implemented by Ordinance 236, 1983 and the
two-percent increase in local sales tax implemented by Ordinance 423, 2020,
shall be deposited in this Fund, and the resulting revenue shall be
appropriated solely for capital improvements, as allowed by law. (Ord. 236 §2,
1983; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 423 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 4-2-40.   Conservation Trust Fund created.
   There is hereby created a special fund, to be known, as the Conservation
Trust Fund, and the funds therein shall be used only for the purposes allowed
by law.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-2-50.   Trash Fund created.
   There is hereby created a special fund, to be known as the Trash Fund, and
the funds therein shall be used only for the purposes of defraying expenses in
the collection of garbage and rubbish, and as allowed by law.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-2-60.   Virginia Christensen Fund created.
   There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the Virginia
Christensen Fund, and the funds therein shall be used only for the purposes
allowed by the Virginia G. Christensen Trust Agreement dated June 16, 1989.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-2-70.   Water and Sewer Fund created.
   There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the Water and Sewer
Fund. All revenue received from users of the City's water and wastewater plants
and distribution infrastructure shall be deposited in this fund. The funds
therein shall be used only for the purposes of defraying expenses associated
with the production, treatment and distribution of water as well as the
distribution and treatment of wastewater.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
Sales Tax
Sec. 4-3-10.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Article is to impose a sales tax on the sale of tangible
personal property or the furnishing of certain taxable services as provided in
39-26-104, C.R.S., upon every retailer in the City.
(Ord. 201 §2, 1976)
Sec. 4-3-20.   Definitions.
   (a)   For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings indicated unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
      Clerk means the City Clerk and any deputy clerk duly appointed by the
Board of Trustees.
      Director of Revenue means the Director of the Colorado Department of
Revenue.
   (b)   The definitions of all other words, terms and phrases used herein
shall be as defined in Section 39-26-102, C.R.S., and said definitions are
incorporated herein by this reference.
(Ord. 201 §3, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-3-30.   Schedule of tax.
   There is hereby imposed on all sales of tangible personal property at retail
and the furnishing of certain taxable services, as defined herein, a tax equal
to four percent (4%) of the gross receipts of said sales. (Ord. 201 §6, 1976;
Ord. 202 §4, 1976; Ord. 236 §§3, 5, 1983; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 423 § 1,
2020)
Sec. 4-3-40.   Sales tax regulations.
   (a)   The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax imposed by Article 26
of Title 39, C.R.S., regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
   (b)   The imposition of the tax on individual sales shall be in accordance
with the schedule set forth in the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Colorado Department of Revenue. Any rebate hereunder shall be by separate
ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
   (c)   The amount subject to tax under this Article shall not include the
state sales and use tax imposed by Article 26 of Title 39, C.R.S.
   (d)   The tangible personal property and services taxable pursuant to this
Article shall be the same as the tangible personal property and services
taxable pursuant to Section 39-26-104, C.R.S., and subject to the same
exemptions as those specified in Section 39-26-114, C.R.S.
(Ord. 201 §5, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-3-50.   Exemptions from sales tax.
   (a)   The following shall be exempt from taxation under the provisions of
this Article 3:
      (1)   All sales made to charitable organizations, in the conduct of their
regular charitable functions and activities;
      (2)   All sales by a charitable organization of tangible personal
property, commodities, or services otherwise subject to tax under this Article
3 if:
         a.   The net proceeds from sales by the charitable organizations of
tangible personal property, commodities, or services otherwise subject to tax
under this Article 3 do not exceed forty-five thousand dollars ($45,000) during
the preceding calendar year; and
         b.   The funds raised by the charitable organization through the sales
are retained by the organization to be used in the course of the organization's
charitable service.
      (3)   The exemption in subsection (a)(2) shall not apply to sales made by
a charitable organization on or after the date that the net proceeds from sales
by the charitable organization of tangible personal property, commodities, or
services otherwise subject to tax under this Article 3 exceeds forty-five
thousand dollars ($45,000) during the current calendar year.
      (4)   On or after September I, 2008, the sales by an association or
organization of parents and teachers of public school students that is a
charitable organization, if the association or organization uses the funds
raised through the sale for the benefit of a public school or an organized
public school activity or to pay the reasonable expenses of the association or
organization.
   (b)   The storage, use, or consumption of any item that is exempt from sales
tax by operation of subsection (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is exempt from
taxation under the provisions of this Article 3.
   (c)   All sales of personal property on which a specific ownership tax has
been paid or is payable shall be exempt from the sales tax, when such sale
meets both the following conditions:
      (1)   The purchaser is a nonresident of, or has his or her principal
place of business outside of the City limits; and
      (2)   Such personal property is registered or required to be registered
outside the City limits under state law.
(Ord. 201 §5, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 446 §1, 2023)
Sec. 4-3-60.   Location of business.
   (a)   For the purpose of this Article, all retail sales shall be considered
consummated at the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to a
destination outside the City limits or to a common carrier for delivery to a
destination outside the City limits.
   (b)   In the event that the retailer has no permanent place of business in
the City, or more than one (1) place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated for the purpose of this sales tax shall be
determined by the provisions of Article 26 of Title 39, C.R.S., and by the
rules and regulations promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 201 §5, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-3-70.   Collection, administration and enforcement.
   (a)   The collection, administration and enforcement of the sales tax
imposed by this Article shall be performed by the Executive Director of the
Colorado Department of Revenue, in the same manner as the collection,
administration and enforcement of the state sales tax. The provisions of
Article 26 of Title 39, C.R.S., shall govern the collection, administration and
enforcement of sales taxes authorized under this Article.
   (b)   All provisions of Article 26 of Title 39, C.R.S., concerning liability
for tax, rules and regulations, tax on motor vehicles, exemptions, interest on
deficiencies, investigation, records of sales, tax liens, recovery of taxes,
penalty and interest, decisions of the director, notices and other provisions
pertinent to the collection, enforcement and incidence of said tax by the City
are incorporated herein by reference and made applicable to the provisions of
this Article, unless specifically otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 201 §5, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 4-3-80.   Penalties.
   Any person violating any provisions or failing to comply with the mandatory
requirements of this Article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of Section
1-4-20 of this Code. Nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to
preempt the right of the State, in the alternative, to prosecute such violators
under the provisions of Article 26 of Title 39, C.R.S.
(Ord. 201 §5, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 4
Purchasing and Procurement
Sec. 4-4-10.   Designation of Purchasing Agent.
   The Town Manager, or an officer of the city designated by the Town Manager,
shall be the Purchasing Agent for the City. He or she shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials and equipment and contractual
services required by any office, department or agency of the City government.
      (2)   The storage and distribution of all supplies, materials and
equipment required by any office, department or agency of the City government.
      (3)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials and equipment required by any office, department or agency
of the City government. Such specifications shall be definite and certain and
shall permit of competition.
      (4)   Maintaining, whenever practicable, a perpetual inventory record of
all materials, supplies or equipment stored in storerooms or warehouses.
      (5)   Soliciting and maintaining an up-to-date list of qualified
suppliers who have requested their names to be added to a "bidders list". The
Purchasing Agent shall have authority to remove temporarily the names of
vendors who have defaulted on their quotations, attempted to defraud the City
or who have failed to meet established specifications or delivery dates.
      (6)   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts and sales. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-20.   Formal contract procedure.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000),
shall be purchased by formal, written contract from the lowest responsible
bidder, after due notice inviting proposals. No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided to avoid the requirements of this section. All sales of personal
property which has become obsolete or unusable, when the estimated value shall
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000), shall be sold by formal written contract
or at a public auction to the highest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals and bidders. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-30.   Bidding.
   Before any purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or
services exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) are made, the Purchasing
Agent shall give ample opportunity for competitive bidding. For purchases or
contracts not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), the Purchasing Agent
must make a reasonable attempt to solicit three (3) written quotes. Competitive
bidding shall be encouraged for all contracts, purchases or sales. However, in
the event of an emergency affecting the public welfare, health or safety, the
provisions of this section shall not apply. A full report of the circumstances
of an emergency purchase shall be filled by the Purchasing Agent with the City
Council and shall be entered in the minutes of the Council. (Ord. 417 § 1,
2019)
Sec. 4-4-40.   Award to lowest bidder; advertising, when required.
   All contracts for City improvements, materials, equipment, or services
costing more than five thousand dollars ($5,000) shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the City at least five (5) days before the last day set for receipt of
proposals; provided, however, that in case of professional services, this
section shall not apply. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the articles or services to be purchased, shall state
where bid blanks and specifications may be secured and the time and place for
opening bids. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-50.   Bid deposits.
   When deemed necessary by the Purchasing Agent, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Upon entering into a contract,
bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposit where the Purchasing Agent
has required such. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required
by the Purchasing Agent upon failure on his part to enter into a contract
within ten (10) days after the award; provided, however, that the City, in its
uncontrolled discretion, may waive this forfeiture. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-60.    Sealed bid procedures.
   Procedure for sealed bids shall be as follows:
   (a)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent securely
sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
   (b)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notices.
   (c)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (d)   Rejection of bids. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract, when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (e)   Bidders in default to City. The Purchasing Agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in the payment of taxes,
license, or other moneys due the City.
   (f)   Award of contract:
      (1)   Authority in Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this Article; provided, however, that
contracts in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) shall not be awarded
without prior approval of City Council.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining "lowest responsible bidder", in addition to
price, the Purchasing Agent shall consider:
         a.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         b.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         c.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         d.   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         e.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         f.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         g.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         h.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject: of the contract;
         i.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (g)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the Purchasing Agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and held for a period of no less than twelve
(12) months.
   (h)   Tie bids:
      (1)   Local vendors. If all bids received are for the same total amount
or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded
to the local bidder. If two (2) or more of such bids are submitted by local
bidders, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the local tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in the tie
bids, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the outside tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. The Purchasing Agent, local bidders, and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where he is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where price, quality
and service are not equal, is to give preference to one minute segment of the
citizenry against the best interests of the community as a whole.
   (i)   Performance bonds. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount as he/she shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interest
of the City.
   (j)   Payment Bond/Labor and Material Bond. The Purchasing Agent may require
a Payment Bond and a Labor and Material Bond, before entering into a contract,
in such form and amount as he/she shall deem necessary to protect the best
interest of the City. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-70.   Materials testing.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples submitted with bids and samples of deliveries which
are necessary to determine their quality and conformance with the
specifications. In the performance of such tests, the Purchasing Agent shall
have the authority to make use of laboratory facilities of any agency of the
City government or any outside laboratory. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-80.   Financial interest of City officials and employees prohibited.
   No member of the City Council or any officer or employee of the City, shall
have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the City or to a
contractor supplying the City of any land or rights or interests in any land,
material, supplies or services; except when a majority of the City Council
determines such exception in the best interest of the City, provided, that no
Councilman whose interest is involved shall vote on the question. Any willful
violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and any
officer or employee of the City found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit his/
her office or position. Any violation of this section with the knowledge
express or implied of the person or corporation contracting with the City shall
render the contract voidable by the City Manager or the City Council. (Ord. 417
§ 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-90.   Records of open market orders and bids.
   The Purchasing Agent shall keep a record of all open market orders and the
bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall also be open to
public inspection. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-100.   Stock reports.
   All offices, departments or agencies of the City government shall submit to
the Purchasing Agent, at such times and in such form as he/she shall prescribe,
reports showing stocks of all supplies, including supplies which are no longer
used or which have become obsolete, worn out or scrapped. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-110.   Surplus stock.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments or agencies of the City government. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-120.   Supplies unsuitable for public use, sale or exchange.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade-in
the same on, new supplies. Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder, and
in conformance with the provisions of this Chapter. All moneys received from
such sales shall be paid into the appropriate Fund of the City. (Ord. 417 § 1,
2019)
Sec. 4-4-130.   Gifts and rebates.
   The Purchasing Agent and every officer and employee of the City are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person,
company, firm or corporation to which any purchase order or contract is, or
might be awarded, any rebate, gift, money, or anything of value whatsoever,
except where given for the use and benefit of the City. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
Sec. 4-4-140.   Cooperative purchasing.
   The Purchasing Agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the City
would be served thereby. (Ord. 417 § 1, 2019)
CHAPTER 5
Franchises and Communication Systems
Article 1   Cable TV System Franchise
   Sec.
5-1-10   Definitions
   Sec.
5-1-20   Grant of franchise
   Sec.
5-1-30   Term of franchise
   Sec.
5-1-40   Amendment
   Sec.
5-1-50   Renewal
   Sec.
5-1-60   Purchase of system
   Sec.
5-1-70   Noncompliance
   Sec.
5-1-80   Assignment of franchise
   Sec.
5-1-90   Franchise fee
   Sec.
5-1-100   Payment schedule
   Sec.
5-1-110   Franchise fee payment in lieu of other fees
   Sec.
5-1-120   Conduct of business
   Sec.
5-1-130   Compliance with FCC regulations
   Sec.
5-1-140   Provision of service
   Sec.
5-1-150   Additions, reductions and changes of programming
   Sec.
5-1-160   Fee schedule
   Sec.
5-1-170   Location of facilities
   Sec.
5-1-180   Excavation and construction
   Sec.
5-1-190   Relocation of Company facilities
   Sec.
5-1-200   Service to new areas
   Sec.
5-1-210   Restoration of service
   Sec.
5-1-220   Rules and regulations
   Sec.
5-1-230   Safety regulations by City
   Sec.
5-1-240   Inspection, audit and quality control
   Sec.
5-1-250   City held harmless; insurance
   Sec.
5-1-260   Notice to Company
   Sec.
5-1-270   Payment of expenses
   Sec.
5-1-280   Franchise performance bond
Article 2   Electric Franchise
   Sec.
5-2-10   Definitions
   Sec.
5-2-20   Grant of franchise
   Sec.
5-2-30   Location of facilities
   Sec.
5-2-40   Maintenance of facilities
   Sec.
5-2-50   Relocation of facilities
   Sec.
5-2-60   Use of facilities
   Sec.
5-2-70   Duties
   Sec.
5-2-80   Rate nondiscrimination
   Sec.
5-2-90   Extension of system
   Sec.
5-2-100   Promulgation of rules
   Sec.
5-2-110   Regulation of installation and maintenance
   Sec.
5-2-120   Franchise fee
   Sec.
5-2-130   Payment due date
   Sec.
5-2-140   Effective date
   Sec.
5-2-150   Removal of equipment
   Sec.
5-2-160   Assignment of franchise
   Sec.
5-2-170   Police power
   Sec.
5-2-180   Reimbursement of costs
ARTICLE 1
Cable TV System Franchise
Sec. 5-1-10.   Definitions.
   For the purpose of this franchise, the following words and phrases shall
have the meaning given in this Article. When not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the plural
number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include
the plural number. The word shall is mandatory and may is permissive. Words not
defined in this Section shall be given their common and ordinary meanings:
   Cable television service means cable service as defined by the
Communications Act, 1934, as amended, including data and voice.
   Cable television system means cable system as defined by the Communications
Act, 1934, as amended, including data and voice.
   City means the municipality of Creede, known as City of Creede, a Colorado
Town and City of Creede, Mineral County, Colorado, and includes the territory
as currently is or may in the future be included within the boundaries of the
City of Creede.
   Company means ICE Cable Holdings, LLC, and its successors and assigns.
   Facilities means all facilities reasonably necessary to provide cable
television service within and through the City and includes plants, works,
systems, lines, equipment, underground links, switches, wires and radio links.
   Streets and other public places means streets, alleys, viaducts, bridges,
roads, lanes, easements, public ways and other public places in the City.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 5-1-20.   Grant of franchise.
   The City hereby grants to the Company the right to furnish, sell and
distribute cable television service to the City and to all persons, businesses
and industries within the City limits, a nonexclusive right to acquire,
construct, install, locate, maintain, operate and extend into, within and
through the City all facilities reasonably necessary to provide cable
television service; and a nonexclusive right to make reasonable use of all
streets and other public places as may be necessary to carry out the terms of
this Article.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-30.   Term of franchise.
   The term of this franchise shall be for ten (10) years, beginning on the
effective date as set out herein and in the enabling ordinance.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-40.   Amendment.
   This franchise may be amended by written amendment signed by both parties.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-50.   Renewal.
   This franchise may be renewed for a like ten-year term ten (10) years from
the passage of the ordinance codified herein, upon notice from the Company and
agreement by the City to renew tendered by the Company before thirty (30) days
prior to the end of this franchise and any extensions thereto, unless the
Company shall not be in substantial compliance with the material terms of this
franchise. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to the above, either party may
timely invoke applicable provisions of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, for renewing this franchise. Unless renewed as outlined above, this
franchise will lapse. The City must approve any transfer of ownership.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 5-1-60.   Purchase of system.
   If at any time the Company elects to terminate or ceases the provisions of
the cable TV service as described herein, within the City, or the franchise is
terminated by its own terms or by the City as a result of default of terms of
this franchise, the City shall have the option to purchase the system at fair
market value. A reputable appraiser shall determine the fair market value. Both
the City and the Company shall agree upon the selection of the appraiser or
each will select one (1) and the two (2) shall select a third, if the parties
cannot agree on a single appraiser.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-70.   Noncompliance.
   No party shall be deemed in noncompliance of this franchise unless it has
been provided notice and opportunity to cure such noncompliance within ninety
(90) days of such notice and has not undertaken action towards curing such
noncompliance within such period. If either party is in substantial
noncompliance with the material terms or conditions of this franchise, the
compliant party may obtain any and all relief appropriate, including seeking a
judicial decree for specific performance or revocation of the franchise. The
successful party in a judicial action seeking relief for breach shall be
entitled to its reasonable costs and attorney's fees.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-80.   Assignment of franchise.
   This franchise cannot be assigned without approval of the City.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-90.   Franchise fee.
   In consideration for the grant of this franchise, the Company shall pay as
an annual franchise fee to the City a sum equal to five percent (5%) of the
Company's annual gross revenues collected from the provision of cable
television service in the franchised area.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-100.   Payment schedule.
   For the franchise fee owed on revenue received after the effective date of
this franchise, payment shall be made in quarterly installments due on or
before the last day of the month following the end of each calendar year
quarter. Payments at the beginning and end of the term of this franchise shall
be prorated. All payments shall be made to the City Clerk.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-110.   Franchise fee payment in lieu of other fees.
   Payment of the franchise fee by the Company is accepted by the City in lieu
of any occupancy tax, license tax, permit charge, inspection fee or similar
tax, assessment or excise upon the privilege of doing business or in connection
with the physical operation thereof, but does not exempt the Company from any
lawful taxation upon its real property, sales and use taxes or any other tax
not related to the franchise or the physical operation thereof.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-120.   Conduct of business.
   The Company may establish, from time to time, such rates, regulations, terms
and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be reasonably
necessary to enable the Company to exercise its rights and perform its
obligations under this franchise; provided, however, that such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the laws of the
State and the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC"), or any successor
agency.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-130.   Compliance with FCC regulations.
   The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations adopted
by the FCC.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-140.   Provision of service.
   The Company shall provide cable television service in accordance with the
Schedule of Rates and Charges, attached to the Franchise Agreement, a copy of
which is on file in the office of the City Clerk, as may be amended from time
to time and approved by the City. The Company shall provide a cable television
system having a capacity of thirty-five (35) channels capable of distributing
video and associated audio on each channel that is programmed.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 5-1-150.   Additions, reductions and changes of programming.
   The Company shall not delete or so limit as to effectively delete any broad
category of programming. The Company shall consult at least once a year and
cooperate with the City in developing and implementing a policy for the
ascertainment of programming to respond to the needs and satisfaction of its
customers.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-160.   Fee schedule.
   The Company shall not exceed the fees noted on the Schedule of Rates and
Charges, attached to the Franchise Agreement, a copy of which is on file in the
office of the City Clerk, as the same from time to time is amended. At such
time as the City is allowed by law to regulate fees, this franchise will not
preclude such regulation. In any case, the Company will coordinate and consult
with the City regarding any change in programming or fee schedule.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 5-1-170.   Location of facilities.
   The Company's facilities shall not interfere with the City's water mains,
sewer mains, gas mains or other municipal use of streets and other public
places. The Company's facilities shall be located so as to cause minimum
interference with public use of streets and other public places and shall be
maintained in good repair and condition.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-180.   Excavation and construction.
   All construction, excavation, maintenance and repair work done by the
Company shall be done in a timely and expeditious manner, which minimizes the
inconvenience to the public and individuals. All such construction, excavation,
maintenance and repair work done by the Company shall comply with all
applicable codes of the City, the State and the United States of America. All
public and private property disturbed by the Company's construction or
excavation activities shall be restored as soon as practicable by the Company
at its expense to substantially its former condition. The Company shall comply
with the City's request for reasonable and prompt action to remedy all damages
to public or private property, adjacent lots, streets or dedicated easements
where the Company is performing construction, excavation, maintenance or repair
work. The City reserves the right to restore property and remedy damages caused
by the Company activities at the expense of the Company, in the event the
Company fails to perform such work within a reasonable time after notice from
the City. Before beginning any construction or excavation within City roads or
streets, the Company shall comply with all City road cut and construction
permit requirements.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-190.   Relocation of Company facilities.
   If at any time the City reasonably requests the Company to relocate any
distribution line, service connection or other facility installed or maintained
in streets or other public places in order to permit the City to change street
grades, pavements, sewers, water mains or other City works, such relocation
shall be made by the Company at its expense. The Company is not obligated
hereunder to relocate any facilities at its expense, which were installed in
private easements obtained by the Company, the underlying fee of which was, at
some point subsequent to installation, transferred to the City, unless such fee
is transferred to the City for public right-of-way purposes. Following
relocation, the Company at its expense shall restore all property to
substantially its former condition. The City will reasonably exhaust
alternatives not requiring relocation in all cases.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-200.   Service to new areas.
   If, during the term of this franchise, the boundaries of the City are
extended, the Company shall extend service to the newly annexed areas. Service
to annexed areas shall be in accordance with the terms of this franchise,
including payment of franchise fees, and in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the FCC. If the newly annexed area is undeveloped, the Company
shall extend service and facilities upon the installation of other utilities to
serve the area. If the newly annexed area is developed, service shall be
extended within one (1) year of annexation. The new areas must have at least
twenty (20) homes per route mile.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-210.   Restoration of service.
   In the event the Company's communications facility or any part thereof is
partially or wholly destroyed or incapacitated, the Company shall use due
diligence to restore its system to satisfactory service within the shortest
practicable time subject to availability of functioning poles, ducts and other
rights-of-way used by the communications facility.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-220.   Rules and regulations.
   All lines and equipment constructed under this grant shall be constructed in
accordance with established practices as prescribed by the FCC and its duly or
legally constituted successors in authority; and the rights and privileges
herein granted in said streets and other public places shall be subject at all
times to such ordinances and reasonable regulations and road cut permit
procedures as are now or shall hereafter be ordained or passed by the Town
concerning similar use and excavations of streets and other public places.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-230.   Safety regulations by City.
   The City reserves the right to adopt from time to time reasonable
regulations in the exercise of it police power, which are necessary to ensure
the health, safety and welfare of the public, provided that such regulations
are not destructive of the rights, granted herein. The Company agrees to comply
with all such reasonable regulations now existing or duly adopted, in the
construction, maintenance and operation of its facilities and in the provisions
of telecommunications services within the City.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-240.   Inspection, audit and quality control.
   The City shall have the right to inspect, at all reasonable times, any
portion of the facilities. The City shall also have the right to inspect and
conduct an audit of Company records relevant to compliance with any terms of
this franchise at all reasonable times, but no more than once per year. The
Company agrees to cooperate with the City in conducting the inspection and/or
audit and to correct any discrepancies affecting the City's interest in a
prompt and efficient manner. The City shall pay the cost of such audit,
provided that no irregularities are found.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-250.   City held harmless; insurance.
   The Company shall maintain its facilities as to afford all reasonable
protection against injury or damage to persons or property therefrom, and the
Company shall save and hold the City harmless from all liability or damage and
all reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by the City arising out of the
exercise by the Company of the rights and privileges hereby granted, provided
that such liability or damage was not caused by the City. The Company shall
maintain public liability insurance in an amount not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00), and the City shall be identified as a named insured of
the Company on said public liability insurance. Upon request of the City, the
Company shall furnish to the City Attorney evidence from its insurance
carriers, which demonstrates compliance with this Section, as a confidential
document. The City will provide notice to the Company of the pendency of any
claim or action against the City arising out of the exercise by the Company of
its franchise rights. The Company will be permitted, at its own expense, to
appear and defend or to assist in defense of such claim.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-260.   Notice to Company.
   The City will provide notice to the Company of the pendency of any claim or
action against the City arising out of the exercise by the Company of its
franchise rights. The Company will be permitted, at its own expense, to appear
and defend or to assist in defense of such claim.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-270.   Payment of expenses.
   The Company shall pay for all expenses relating to the publication of notice
and ordinances arising out of the process for obtaining this franchise.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
Sec. 5-1-280.   Franchise performance bond.
   (a)   Concurrent with the execution of this franchise, the Company has
deposited with the City a franchise bond acceptable to the City in the amount
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The franchise bond shall be used to
guarantee the faithful performance by the Company of all provisions of this
franchise and the payment by the Company of any claims, liens and operation or
maintenance costs of the facilities.
   (b)   The franchise bond shall be maintained at ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) during the entire term of this franchise, even if amounts have to
be withdrawn pursuant to Subsection (a) or (c) of this Section.
   (c)   If the Company fails to pay to the City any compensation within the
time fixed herein; fails to pay to the City any taxes when due; fails to repay
the City any damages, costs or expenses which the City is compelled to pay by
reason of any act or default of the Company in connection with this franchise;
or fails to comply with any provision of this franchise which the City
reasonably determines can be remedied by demand on the franchise bond, the City
may, following fourteen (14) days' written notice to the Company, request
payment of the amount thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the
franchise bond.
   (d)   The rights reserved to the City with respect to the franchise bond are
in addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved by this franchise
or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right with
respect to such franchise bond shall affect any other right the City may have.
   (e)   The City may, in its sole discretion, waive the franchise bond
requirements, reduce the amount required thereunder or, with the agreement of
the Company, provide for an alternative form of guarantee, if performance by
the Company, its successors or assigns, in the sole opinion of the City,
warrants such revision. The City may, at any time at its sole discretion,
reinstate the requirements of the franchise bond as provided herein.
(Prior agmt. 7-1-2002)
ARTICLE 2
Electric Franchise
Sec. 5-2-10.   Definitions.
   Whenever the word City is hereinafter employed, it shall designate the City
of Creede, a Colorado Town, Mineral County, Colorado, the grantor, and whenever
the word Cooperative is used, it shall designate not only San Luis Valley Rural
Electric Cooperative, Inc., a Colorado corporation, the grantee, but also its
successors and assigns.
(Ord. 276 Art. I, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-20.   Grant of franchise.
   There is hereby granted to the Cooperative the right, privilege and
authority to locate, build, construct, acquire, purchase, extend, maintain and
operate into, within and through the City a plant or plants, substations and
works for the purchase, generation, transmission and distribution of electrical
energy, with the right and privilege for the period and upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter specified to furnish, sell and distribute said
electrical energy to the City and the inhabitants thereof, for light, heat and
power or other purposes, by means of conduits, cables, poles with wires strung
thereon, or otherwise on, over, under, along, across and through any and all
streets, alleys, viaducts, bridges, roads, lanes and other public ways and
places in the City and on, over, along, across and through any extension,
connection with or continuation of the same and/or on, over, under, along,
across and through any and all such new streets, alleys, viaducts, bridges,
roads, lanes and other public ways and places as may be hereafter laid out,
opened, located or constructed within the territory now or hereafter included
in the boundaries of the City.
(Ord. 276 Art. II §1, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-30.   Location of facilities.
   The Cooperative is further granted the right, privilege and authority to
excavate in, occupy and use any and all streets, alleys, viaducts, bridges,
roads, lanes and other public ways and places under the supervision of properly
constituted authority, including the ordinances, rules and regulations of the
City, for the purpose of bringing electrical energy to the City and the
inhabitants thereof and in the territory adjacent thereto; provided, however
that the Cooperative shall so locate its plants, substations, works,
transmission and distribution structures, lines, equipment and conduits within
the City as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets,
alleys and other public ways and places and to cause minimum interference with
rights or reasonable convenience of property owners whose property adjoins any
of said streets, alleys or other public ways and places. Should it become
necessary for the Cooperative, in exercising its rights and performing its
duties hereunder, to interfere with any sidewalk, pavement or any other public
or private improvement, the Cooperative shall repair in a workmanlike manner
such sidewalk, graveled or paved street, road, alley or other public
improvement after the installation of its poles, conduits or other structures.
The Cooperative shall use due care not to interfere with or damage any water
mains, sewers or other structures now or which may hereafter be placed in said
streets, alleys or other public places, and will set no poles or other
structures in the paved portions of the streets now traversed by U.S. Highway
No. 149.
(Ord. 276 Art. II §2, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-40.   Maintenance of facilities.
   The Cooperative shall so maintain its structures, apparatus, equipment,
poles, wires and conduits as to afford all reasonable protection against injury
or damage to persons or property therefrom, and the Cooperative shall save the
City harmless from all liability or damage and all reasonable expenses,
including reasonable attorney's fees and costs necessarily accruing against the
City arising out of the willful, wanton or negligent exercise by the
Cooperative of the rights and privileges hereby granted; provided that the
Cooperative shall have had notice of the pendency of any action against the
City arising out of such exercise by the Cooperative of said rights and
privileges and permitted at its own expense to appear and defend or assist in
the defense of the same.
(Ord. 276 Art. II §3, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-50.   Relocation of facilities.
   If at any time it shall be necessary to change the position of any pole,
conduit or service connection of the Cooperative to permit the City to lay,
make or change street grades, pavements, sewers, water mains or other City
works, such changes shall be made by the Cooperative at its own expense.
(Ord. 276 Art. II §4, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-60.   Use of facilities.
   The City shall have the right, without cost, to use all poles of the
Cooperative within the City for the purpose of stringing wires thereof for its
fire alarm and police signal system; provided, however, that the Cooperative
assumes and shall be subject to no liability and shall be subject to no
additional expense in connection therewith. It is further provided that the use
of said poles by the City shall not interfere in any unreasonable manner with
the Cooperative's use of the same.
(Ord. 276 Art. II §5, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-70.   Duties.
   The Cooperative shall furnish electrical energy within the corporate limits
of the City or any addition thereto, to the City and to such of the inhabitants
thereof, or to any person, persons or corporations doing business in the City
or any additions thereto, in accordance with such rules and regulations and
upon conditions as the Cooperative may by order of its Board of Directors
establish. Such electrical energy shall be furnished at the rates and under the
terms and conditions established by the Board of Directors of the Cooperative
for service to like members as on file in the office of the Cooperative at
Monte Vista, Colorado, subject to any regulations, which may be prescribed by
any competent authority having jurisdiction in the premises. The electrical
energy which the Cooperative will furnish as herein provided will be single-
phase electric service, and nothing contained in this Article shall be
construed to require or provide that the Cooperative will furnish three-phase
service to any specific location.
(Ord. 276 Art. III §1, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-80.   Rate nondiscrimination.
   The Cooperative shall not as to rates, charges, service, facilities, rules,
regulations or in any other respect, make or grant any preference or advantage
to any corporation or person or subject any corporation or person to any
prejudice or disadvantage, provided that nothing in this grant shall be taken
to prohibit the establishment from time to time of a graduated scale of charges
and classified rate schedules to which any customer coming within an
established classification would be entitled.
(Ord. 276 Art. III §2, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-90.   Extension of system.
   The Cooperative will, from time to time during the term of this franchise,
make such enlargements and extensions of its distribution system as the
business of the Cooperative and the growth of the City justify, in accordance
with rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Directors of the
Cooperative.
(Ord. 276 Art. III §3, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-100.   Promulgation of rules.
   The Cooperative, from time to time, may promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business, including the
utilization of electrical energy and payment therefor, and the interference
with, or alteration of, any of the Cooperative's property upon the premises of
its customers, as shall be necessary to ensure a continuous and uninterrupted
service to each and all of its customers, and the proper measurement thereof
and payment therefor, provided that the Cooperative shall keep on file in its
office at Monte Vista, Colorado, available to the patrons of the Cooperative,
copies of its Rate Schedules, Standards for Service, Rules and Regulations.
Copies thereof shall also be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 276 Art. III §4, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-110.   Regulation of installation and maintenance.
   The City may, from time to time, enact suitable, reasonable and appropriate
ordinances governing and requiring the proper and safe installation and
maintenance of electrical wiring of premises within the City; and in
preparation of such ordinances, may consult with the engineers and technicians
of the Cooperative, without charge for such service.
(Ord. 276 Art. III §5, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-120.   Franchise fee.
   As a further consideration for this franchise, and acceptance by the City in
lieu of all occupancy and license taxes and all other special taxes,
assessments or excises upon the plant or system or other property of the
Cooperative or ad valorem taxes, that might be imposed, either as a franchise
tax, occupancy tax, license tax, permit charge or inspection fees, the
Cooperative shall pay to the City a sum equal to two percent (2%) of its annual
gross revenue derived from the sale of electrical energy within the corporate
limits of the City, excluding the revenue arising from the sale of electrical
energy to the City itself.
(Ord. 276 Art. IV §1, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-130.   Payment due date.
   Payments of such revenue to the City shall be made on or before the first
day of March of each calendar year during the term of this franchise, for the
next previous calendar year, and shall be adjusted at the beginning and
expiration of this franchise.
(Ord. 276 Art. IV §2, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-140.   Effective date.
   This franchise shall be in full force and effect from and after the passage,
approval and publication of the ordinance codified herein, as by law required,
upon acceptance thereof in writing by the Cooperative on or before the tenth
day after such publication, and the terms, conditions and covenants hereof
shall remain in full force and effect for a period of twenty-five (25) years
from and after such passage, approval, publication and acceptance thereof.
(Ord. 276 Art. V §1, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-150.   Removal of equipment.
   Upon the expiration of this franchise, if the Cooperative shall not have
acquired an extension of renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have,
and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets, alleys, bridges,
viaducts, roads, lanes and other public places of the City, for the purpose of
removing therefrom any or all of its plants, structures, conduits, cables,
poles and wire or equipment pertaining thereto, at any time after the City has
had ample time and opportunity to purchase, condemn or replace them. In so
removing said conduits, cables, poles and wire, the Cooperative shall, at its
own expense and in a workmanlike manner, refill any excavations that shall be
made by it in the graveled or paved streets, alleys, bridges, viaducts, roads,
lanes and other public places after the renewal of its poles, conduits or other
structures.
(Ord. 276 Art. V §2, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-160.   Assignment of franchise.
   Nothing in this Article shall be so construed as to prevent the Cooperative
from assigning all of its right, title or interest, gained or authorized under
or by virtue of the terms of this Article.
(Ord. 276 Art. V §3, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-170.   Police power.
   The right is hereby reserved to the City to adopt, from time to time, in
addition to the provisions herein contained, such ordinances as may be deemed
necessary in the exercise of its police power, provided that such regulations
shall be reasonable and not destructive of the rights herein granted, and not
in conflict with the laws of the State, or with orders of other authorities
having jurisdiction in the premises.
(Ord. 276 Art. V §4, 1990)
Sec. 5-2-180.   Reimbursement of costs.
   The City requires that this franchise be received and approved by its
attorney prior to adoption. All such costs of review and related expenses and
the cost of all publications will be borne by the Cooperative. (Ord. 276 Art. V
§5, 1990)
CHAPTER 6
Business Licenses and Regulations
Article 1   Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
   Sec.
6-1-10   Definitions
   Sec.
6-1-20   Application of state statutes
   Sec.
6-1-30   Power and purpose
   Sec.
6-1-40   Suspension or revocation; fine
   Sec.
6-1-50   Optional premises
   Sec.
6-1-60   Educational requirements
Article 2   Horse-Drawn Carriage Permits
   Sec.
6-2-10   Revocable permit required
   Sec.
6-2-20   Liability of employer
   Sec.
6-2-30   Indemnification of City
   Sec.
6-2-40   Rules and regulations
   Sec.
6-2-50   Application for permit
   Sec.
6-2-60   Permit not transferable
   Sec.
6-2-70   Knowledge of subject
   Sec.
6-2-80   Permit restrictions
   Sec.
6-2-90   Fees
   Sec.
6-2-100   Exemption
   Sec.
6-2-110   Insurance requirements
ARTICLE 1
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
Sec. 6-1-10.   Definitions.
   (a)   As used in this Article, unless the context indicates otherwise,
certain words shall have the following meanings:
      Local licensing authority means the City Board of Trustees setting as the
local licensing authority, having the authority and responsibilities as
delegated by state law.
      Retail license means a grant to a licensee to sell fermented beverages
pursuant to the Colorado Beer Code (Article 4 of Title 44, C.R.S.) or a grant
to a licensee to sell malt, vinous or spirituous liquors pursuant to the
Colorado Liquor Code (Article 3 of Title 44, C.R.S.).
      Retail licensee or licensee means the holder of a license to sell
fermented malt beverages pursuant to the Colorado Beer Code (Article 4 of Title
44, C.R.S.) or the holder of a license to sell malt, vinous or spirituous
liquors pursuant to the Colorado Liquor Code (Article 3 of Title 44, C.R.S.),
who is engaged at any time during the calendar year in such operation in the
City.
   (b)   All other terms shall be defined as set forth in the provisions of the
Colorado Beer Code, the Colorado Liquor Code and Special Event Permits, as the
definitions presently exist or may hereafter be amended. (Prior code 3-6-1;
Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §1, 2023; Ord. 456 §1, 2025)
Sec. 6-1-20.   Application of state statutes.
   Pursuant to declaration by the General Assembly, the Colorado Beer Code,
Section 44-4-101, et seq., C.R.S., the Colorado Liquor Code, Section 44-3-101,
et seq., C.R.S., and Special Event Permits, Section 44-5-101, et seq., C.R.S.,
as they presently exist or may hereafter be amended, shall apply to the sale of
fermented malt beverages, alcoholic beverages, special malt liquors, spirituous
liquors and vinous liquors in the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §2, 2023)
Sec. 6-1-30.   Power and purpose.
   The Board of Trustees hereby finds, determines and declares that it is
empowered by Section 44-3-505, C.R.S., to fix and collect certain fees in
connection with the application for issuance, transfer and renewal of certain
types of beer, wine and liquor licenses. The Board of Trustees further finds
that the fees imposed by the State are in amounts sufficient to cover actual
and necessary expenses incurred by the City in connection with the handling of
such licenses and applications therefor.
(Prior code 3-6-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §3, 2023)
Sec. 6-1-40.   Suspension or revocation; fine.
   (a)   Whenever a decision of the Board of Trustees, acting as the Local
Licensing Authority (hereinafter "Authority"), suspending a retail license for
fourteen (14) days or less becomes final, whether by failure of the retail
licensee to appeal the decision or by exhaustion of all appeals and judicial
review, the retail licensee may, before the operative date of the suspension,
petition the Authority for permission to pay a fine in lieu of having his or
her retail license suspended for all or part of the suspension period. Upon the
receipt of the petition, the Authority may, in its sole discretion, stay the
proposed suspension and cause any investigation to be made, which it deems
desirable and may, in its sole discretion, grant the petition if it is
satisfied:
      (1)   That the public welfare and morals would not be impaired by
permitting the retail licensee to operate during the period set for suspension
and that the payment of the fine will achieve the desired disciplinary
purposes;
      (2)   That the books and records of the retail licensee are kept in such
a manner that the loss of sales of alcoholic beverages which the retail
licensee would have suffered had the suspension gone into effect can be
determined with reasonable accuracy therefrom; and
      (3)   That the retail licensee has not had his or her license suspended
or revoked, nor had any suspension stayed by payment of a fine, during the two
(2) years immediately preceding the date of the motion or complaint which has
resulted in a final decision to suspend the retail license.
   (b)   The fine accepted shall be equivalent to twenty percent (20%) of the
retail licensee's estimated gross revenues from sales of alcoholic beverages
during the period of the proposed suspension; except that the fine shall be not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   (c)   Payment of any fine pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall
be in the form of cash, certified check or cashier's check made payable to the
City Clerk and shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
   (d)   Upon payment of the fine pursuant to this Section, the Authority shall
enter its further order permanently staying the imposition of the suspension.
   (e)   In connection with any petition pursuant to this Section, the
authority of the Authority is limited to the granting of such stays as are
necessary for it to complete its investigation and make its findings and, if it
makes such findings, to the granting of an order permanently staying the
imposition of the entire suspension or that portion of the suspension not
otherwise conditionally stayed.
   (f)   If the Authority does not make the findings required in Subsection (a)
above and does not order the suspension permanently stayed, the suspension
shall go into effect on the operative date finally set by the Authority.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 6-1-50.   Optional premises.
   (a)   Optional premises license and optional premises for a hotel and
restaurant license may be issued by the Authority.
   (b)   The following standards shall be applicable to the issuance of a
license under this Section, in addition to all other applicable standards set
forth in the Colorado Liquor Code for optional premises license and optional
premises for a hotel and restaurant license.
      (1)   Eligible facilities. Outdoor sports and recreational facilities as
defined in Section 44-3-103(33), C.R.S., are eligible for licensing as an
optional premise or optional premises for a hotel and restaurant.
      (2)   Number of optional premises. There are no restrictions on the
number of optional premises which any one (1) licensee may have on an outdoor
sports or recreational facility.
      (3)   Minimum size of facility. There is no restriction on the minimum
size of an outdoor sports or recreational facility, which would be eligible for
issuance of an optional, premises license or optional premises for a hotel and
restaurant license.
   (c)   The application for an optional premises license or optional premises
for a hotel or restaurant license shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A map or other drawing illustrating the outdoor sports or
recreational facility boundaries and the approximate location of each optional
premises requested;
      (2)   A description of the method which shall be used to identify the
boundaries of the optional premises when it is in use; and
      (3)   A description of the provisions which have been made for storing
malt, vinous and spirituous liquors in a secured area on or off the optional
premises for the future use on the optional premises.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §4, 2023)
Sec. 6-1-60.   Educational requirements.
   Every hotel and restaurant licensee, registered manager and licensee's
employee is encouraged to obtain a certificate of completion from an
educational program of training for intervention procedures for servers of
alcohol. Those registered managers obtaining a certificate of completion may
file a copy of the certificate of completion with the Authority with an
application of renewal of a liquor license.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 2
Horse-Drawn Carriage Permits
Sec. 6-2-10.   Revocable permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or be permitted to drive a
horse-drawn carriage on the streets of the City; provided, however, that the
Board of Trustees may issue permits for said activities, subject to such
reasonable rules and regulations as the Board of Trustees may impose by
resolution.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-20.   Liability of employer.
   Any person employing any employee shall also be liable for the violation of
any provision of this Article by the employee.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 6-2-30.   Indemnification of City.
   The holder of any permit issued under the terms of this Article shall always
release and indemnify, defend and save harmless the City, its officers, agents
and employees from and against any and all claims, actions, causes of action,
demands, judgments, costs, expenses and attorney's fees and all damages of any
kind and nature incurred by or inuring to any person whatsoever predicated upon
injury to or death of any person; damaged property, public, private or whatever
ownership; or damaged business; provided that such injury, death, loss or
damage shall arise out of or be connected directly or indirectly with the
exercise of any right or privilege granted by such a permit.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 6-2-40.   Rules and regulations.
   The Board of Trustees shall promulgate rules and regulations by resolution,
establishing the appropriate hours of operation and the acceptable areas and
streets in which horse-drawn carriages may be operated. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate a horse-drawn carriage at other times or locations
than those permitted. A copy of the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Board of Trustees is available for inspection at the office of the City Clerk
during usual business hours. A violation of any rule or regulation shall
constitute a violation of this Code.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 6-2-50.   Application for permit.
   An application for a permit hereunder shall include the following
information:
   (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (2)   The number of carriages to be operated;
   (3)   A general description of the area and streets in which the carriage is
to be operated; and
   (4)   Such other information as the Board of Trustees may require.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-60.   Permit not transferable.
   Any permit issued shall be nontransferable, valid for a period of not more
than twelve (12) months after the date of issuance, may be revoked without
cause, and shall be displayed on the carriage. Any permit holder may apply for
a renewal permit in the same manner as an original application.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-70.   Knowledge of subject.
   No permit shall be issued to any applicant unless it is found that the
applicant has demonstrated knowledge of horses, carriages and the handling of
the combination.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-80.   Permit restrictions.
   A person to whom a permit has been issued hereunder is subject to the
following restrictions:
   (1)   The driver or operator of a horse-drawn carriage must have a valid
operator's license to operate a motor vehicle.
   (2)   The permittee shall maintain the equipment and horses in a clean and
safe condition.
   (3)   The permittee shall immediately notify the City Clerk of any change of
address or substantial change in equipment or circumstances.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-90.   Fees.
   The fees for permits under this Article shall be as follows:
   (1)   Nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (2)   Annual permit fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-100.   Exemption.
   Any person driving a horse-drawn carriage in a duly authorized parade or
special event authorized by the Board of Trustees shall be exempt from the
provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
Sec. 6-2-110.   Insurance requirements.
   No permit shall be issued or remain in effect unless the permittee, at his
or her expense and without cost to the City, shall procure and maintain in
force and on file with the City Clerk sufficient evidence of a general
liability policy naming the City as an additional insured, covering bodily
injury including death, in the amount of three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) combined single limit. Such insurance coverage constitutes a
minimum requirement and shall in no way be deemed to limit or lessen the
liability of the permittee under the terms of such permit. An endorsement shall
be included on the required policy, providing for thirty (30) days' notice to
the City in the event of any material change or cancellation.
(Ord. 298 §2, 1994)
CHAPTER 7
Health, Sanitation and Animals
Article 1   Administration and Abatement of Nuisances
   Sec.
7-1-10   Definitions
   Sec.
7-1-20   Administrative Hearing Officer and Secretary
   Sec.
7-1-30   Penalties and costs; collection
   Sec.
7-1-40   Relief from assessment
   Sec.
7-1-50   Notice of violation, authority, enforcement
   Sec.
7-1-60   Notice of violation, issuance
   Sec.
7-1-70   Notice of violation, contents
   Sec.
7-1-80   Notice of violation, service
   Sec.
7-1-90   Abatement proceedings
   Sec.
7-1-100   Abatement proceeding, procedure
   Sec.
7-1-110   Failure to attend or participate in abatement proceeding
   Sec.
7-1-120   Enforcement order; appeal
   Sec.
7-1-130   Failure to comply with enforcement order
   Sec.
7-1-140   Abatement not exclusive remedy
Article 2   Nuisances Enumerated
Division 1   General Provisions
   Sec.
7-2-10   Purpose
   Sec.
7-2-20   Definitions
   Sec.
7-2-30   Proscribed acts
   Sec.
7-2-40   Violations designated as civil infractions
   Sec.
7-2-50   Abatement without hearing, assessment of costs
Division 2   Specified nuisances
   Sec.
7-2-60   Nuisances declared
   Sec.
7-2-70   Posting of circulars, printed materials
   Sec.
7-2-80   Defaced property
   Sec.
7-2-90   Streets, streams and water supply
   Sec.
7-2-100   Littering on streets or transporting garbage, manure
   Sec.
7-2-110   Inoperable vehicles
   Sec.
7-2-120   Junkyards and dumping grounds
   Sec.
7-2-130   Vacant buildings
   Sec.
7-2-140   Outdoor storage of materials
   Sec.
7-2-150   Portable toilets
   Sec.
7-2-160   Public health nuisance
   Sec.
7-2-170   Maintenance of property
Article 3   Refuse Regulations
   Sec.
7-3-10   Accumulation of refuse prohibited
   Sec.
7-3-20   Responsibility for refuse on premises
   Sec.
7-3-30   Abatement
   Sec.
7-3-40   Accumulation and deposit of garbage prohibited
   Sec.
7-3-50   Trash not to be thrown in street, alley, vacant lot, etc.
   Sec.
7-3-60   Responsibility of owners, lessees
   Sec.
7-3-70   Building materials at construction sites
   Sec.
7-3-80   Removal of refuse from business
   Sec.
7-3-90   Accumulation and use of manure
   Sec.
7-3-100   Burning of garbage
   Sec.
7-3-110   Uncollected garbage deemed nuisance, failure to comply
   Sec.
7-3-120   Violations designated
Article 4   Garbage Collection
   Sec.
7-4-10   Provision of collection services
   Sec.
7-4-20   Contract
   Sec.
7-4-30   Collection of garbage and waste matter by outside operators; exception
   Sec.
7-4-40   Charges for City collection services
   Sec.
7-4-50   Disposition and use of funds
   Sec.
7-4-60   Collection of tree trimmings and hedge cuttings
   Sec.
7-4-70   Collection of dead animals
   Sec.
7-4-80   Unauthorized molesting or removal of garbage or containers prohibited
   Sec.
7-4-90   Promulgation of rules and regulations
   Sec.
7-4-100   Enforcement
Article 5   Reserved
   Sec.
7-5-10   Undesirable Plant Management Advisory Commission designated
   Sec.
7-5-20   Declaration of nuisance
   Sec.
7-5-30   Duty of property owner to cut
   Sec.
7-5-40   Removal from City
Article 6   Trees
   Sec.
7-6-10   Prohibited trees
   Sec.
7-6-20   Trees and limbs in public right-of-way
   Sec.
7-6-30   Control of trees and shrubs
Article 7   Animals and Fowl
   Division 1   General Provisions
   Sec.
7-7-10   Confinement of animals running at large; costs
   Sec.
7-7-20   Grazing upon public thoroughfares
   Sec.
7-7-30   Hitching animals to public and private property
   Sec.
7-7-40   Maltreatment
   Sec.
7-7-50   Hogs, sheep and goats prohibited
   Sec.
7-7-60   Cattle and horses prohibited
   Sec.
7-7-70   Fowl and rabbits restrained
   Sec.
7-7-80   Premises kept clean
   Division 2   Dogs
   Sec.
7-7-210   Rabies vaccination required
   Sec.
7-7-220   Inoculation by licensed veterinarian
   Sec.
7-7-230   Filing of complaint
   Sec.
7-7-240   Notice of impoundment
   Sec.
7-7-250   Disposal of abandoned dog
   Sec.
7-7-260   Interference with dogcatcher or police officer
   Sec.
7-7-270   Instigating or encouraging dogfights prohibited
   Sec.
7-7-280   Confinement or muzzling of dogs during rabies danger
   Sec.
7-7-290   Female dogs in heat
   Sec.
7-7-300   Running at large prohibited
   Sec.
7-7-310   Dogs prohibited in ball park
   Sec.
7-7-320   Vicious dogs
   Sec.
7-7-330   Confinement of biting dogs
   Sec.
7-7-340   Notice not required for prosecution
ARTICLE 1
Administration and Abatement of Nuisances
Sec. 7-1-10.   Definitions.
   As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
      Abatement proceeding means a civil proceeding before the Hearing Officer
requested by the City to confirm any penalties and to seek an abatement order.
      Abatement order/enforcement order means an order issued by the Hearing
Officer upon conclusion of an abatement proceeding, after a responsible a party
fails to appear at or take part in a hearing, or a responsible party appears at
the hearing, and is found to be liable for one or more nuisance violations.
      Hearing Officer means pursuant to the provisions of this article, an
individual appointed by the Board of Trustees as an Administrative Hearing
Officer to preside over administrative hearings as designated by this Code and
to issue such rulings, orders and decisions as may be required.
      Notice of violation means a written notice provided to a responsible
party identifying, among other things, the violations existing at, on, about or
within the property identified in the notice.
      Responsible party means the property owner, the occupant or an individual
or entity why, acting as an agent for or in any other legal capacity on behalf
of the owner, has authority over property subject to a notice of violation
under this Chapter, including but not limited to, any mortgagee, loan servicer
or loan holder, whether in trust or otherwise, and any employee, agent or
representative thereof including real estate brokers.
      Secretary means the personnel assigned by the City Manager to support the
Hearing Officer with response to proceedings under this Article.
      Violation means any act or omission that would constitute non-compliance
with any provision of this Code, any other provision of this Code that is
authorized to be enforced through the City's administrative hearing process, or
any provision of this Code designated as a civil infraction. (Ord. 453 § 1,
2024)
Sec. 7-1-20.   Common law nuisances.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees is authorized and empowered to appoint one or
more Administrative Hearing Officers to act as Hearing Officer as provided in
this Code. The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Colorado.
   (b)   The Hearing Officer shall conduct all abatement proceedings. The
Hearing Officer may also conduct civil hearings as specifically designated in
this Code. In each case, the Hearing Officer is charged with performing all
functions necessary to render a final determination and order.
   (c)   In addition to any functions and powers assigned in this Article and
elsewhere in this Code, the Hearing Officer has the authority to do all things
necessary and incidental to hearing matters before it including, but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Swearing in, calling and questioning witnesses;
      (2)   Ruling on evidentiary questions and witness qualifications;
      (3)   Upon the request of any party, issuing subpoenas for witnesses and
documentary and other tangible evidence where the attendance of the witness or
the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to the determination of the
issues at the hearing, provided all costs related to subpoenas, including
witness fees in an amount established by the hearing officer, and mileage fees
at the rate provided for witnesses by statute, shall be borne by the party
requesting the subpoena;
      (4)   Hearing all evidence;
      (5)   Requiring the submission of briefing;
      (6)   Determining the order of proceedings; and
      (7)   Generally conducting the hearing as a quasi-judicial proceeding.
   (d)   The Hearing Officer shall issue rules of procedure regulating the
conduct of its hearings.
   (e)   The City Manager shall assign personnel to serve as the Secretary to
the Hearing Officer, which personnel shall provide secretarial and reporting
services, post any required public notices, and perform such other duties
necessary for the fair and impartial conduct of any hearings. In the absence of
such assignment, the City Clerk shall serve as the Secretary. (Ord. 453 § 1,
2024)
Sec. 7-1-30.   Powers of County Health Department.
   (a)   Penalties imposed on the responsible party for a civil infraction
enforced under this Article shall be as follows:
      (1)   A minimum penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed
against the responsible party for the first violation of a particular code
provision within any consecutive twelve (12) month period.
      (2)   For each successive violation of the same code provision within any
twelve (12) month period, minimum penalties shall be imposed against the
responsible party as follows:
         a.   Second violation: three hundred dollars ($300.00);
         b.   Third violation: five hundred dollars ($500.00);
         c.   Any subsequent violation: one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      (3)   Where multiple violations of a single Code provision are found, the
applicable minimum penalty may be imposed for each count.
      (4)   Payment of a penalty shall neither excuse the failure to correct a
violation nor bar further enforcement action by the City.
   (b)   Costs and fees may be assessed against the responsible party in
addition to any applicable penalties under this Article as follows:
      (1)   Any fees and/or costs authorized by the Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Actual costs of the administrative abatement process, to include
costs incurred by the City including, but not limited to, the per-hour fee
charged to the City by the Hearing Officer, and other costs incurred by the
City in the matter and awarded by Hearing Officer, including the costs of
investigation, staffing costs to prepare for and conduct the hearing, and all
re-inspections necessary to enforce compliance;
      (3)   Reasonable costs of abating the violation, if applicable, plus an
administrative fee equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the costs of the
abatement, unless administrative costs have been awarded and paid in full by
the responsible party.
   (c)   Penalties, fees, and costs assessed pursuant to this Article shall be
paid to the City within thirty (30) days after service of a notice of
assessment by first-class mail to the responsible party; provided, however,
that if the property is occupied by someone other than the owner of the
property, the notice of assessment shall be mailed to both the occupant and the
property owner. Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the notice of
assessment in the United States mail, postage prepaid. The failure of any
person to receive any assessment required under this Chapter shall not affect
the validity of the assessment or any collection efforts under this Section.
   (d)   The City shall assess a late fee in an amount set by Board of Trustees
resolution if the responsible party fails to pay any assessment in full within
the thirty (30) day period.
   (e)   Failure to pay any such assessment within the thirty (30) day period
shall cause the unpaid amount of the assessment plus any late fee to become a
lien against the property identified in the notice of assessment, which lien
shall be a first lien having priority over all liens of whatever kind or
nature, regardless of date, except general taxes and prior special improvement
district assessments. Furthermore, at any time after such failure to pay the
assessment and late fee, the same may be certified to the County Treasurer, as
provided by state statute, to be placed upon the tax list for the current year
and to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected, with a
fifteen percent (15%) penalty added to defray the cost of collection.
   (f)   The City Manager may refer any unpaid penalties, fees, and costs for
collection by whatever means are available to the City. Any action or other
process provided by law may be maintained by the City to recover or collect any
amounts, including late fees, interest and administrative costs, owing under
this Article. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-40.   Author of nuisances.
   (a)   If the responsible party is unable to pay the entire assessment within
thirty (30) days, the responsible party may request leave from the Hearing
Officer to make payments over time. A written request under this Section shall
be submitted to the Secretary before the expiration of the time for payment. No
late fee shall be imposed pending the determination of such a request.
   (b)   A responsible party may object to an assessment imposed pursuant to
Sec. 7-1-30 by filing a written notice of such objection with the City Manager
within fifteen (15) days of the date of service of the notice of assessment.
After reviewing the written objection and any written response filed by the
City, the City Manager may reduce or cancel the assessment if they determine
that the amount of the assessment is unreasonable or that extenuating
circumstances regarding the ability to pay exist supporting the reduction or
cancellation of the assessment. The City Manager shall not question the
validity of the notice or violation or enforcement order in making the
decision. The City Manager's decision is final and not appealable.
   (c)   At any time before a lien imposed under this Article is paid, the City
Manager may cause any lien imposed under this Article to be canceled upon their
determination that the lien was imposed in error, or in the interests of
fairness. The City Manager shall not question the validity of the notice of
violation or the enforcement order. The City Manager's decision is final and
not appealable. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-50.   Prohibition of nuisances.
   (a)   Any person or entity may be issued a notice of violation as provided
in this Article.
   (b)   Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct violation for which a separate notice of violation may be issued.
   (c)   Remedies not exclusive. The City's pursuit of an abatement order shall
not preclude any other lawful remedy available to the City, including
prosecution of violations into a court of law. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-60.   Ascertaining nuisances.
   (a)   Upon discovering a violation, the City Manager, or designee, may issue
a notice of violation to a responsible party; provided, however, that if a
notice of violation is issued to the owner of property for a violation caused
by a tenant in lawful possession of the property, the City Manager, or
designee, must notify both the property owner and the tenant.
   (b)   For violations not related to snow and ice removal, the City Manager,
or designee, shall establish an appropriate date by which any violation must be
corrected based on the nature of the violation, not to exceed twenty-one (21)
calendar days, and to extend such time to correct the violation(s) if, in their
discretion, additional time is reasonably required to do so, provided, however,
that any such extension shall be noted in writing by the City Manager, or
designee, and notice shall be given to the responsible party and the property
owner, if applicable. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-70.   Constitution of separate offense.
   A notice of violation shall contain the following information:
   (a)   The date and location of the violation(s). The notice of violation
shall identify the property in violation by address, legal description, or
other description to sufficiently identify the subject property.
   (b)   Each specific Code provision(s) violated and a brief written
description of the facts resulting in each violation, including photographs, if
available.
   (c)   A requirement that the responsible party correct the violation(s), the
actions required to do so and the date by which the violation(s) must be
corrected. The effective date of service shall be considered in determining the
date of correction.
   (d)   The following, or substantially similar statements:
      (1)   This notice of violation will be dismissed and no penalty imposed
if each violation is corrected by the date stated in the notice.
      (2)   Failure to correct the violation may result in the assessment of
penalties for each violation as provided at Sec. 7-1-30, Creede Municipal Code,
and you may be responsible for any costs of abatement.
      (3)   Please contact the City Manager, or the City employee identified on
this notice, to request an extension to comply and/or seek clarification.
      (4)   You will receive a notice of assessment of any penalties, fees, and
costs before they are due. Any penalties, fees, or costs assessed and not paid
within thirty (30) days will be assessed a late fee and will be filed as a lien
against your property. If not timely paid, the assessment may be collected
through your property tax bill or through any other lawful means.
      (5)   Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct violation for which a separate notice of violation may be
issued. You may receive additional notices of violation and additional
penalties may be imposed if you fail to correct the violation(s).
   (e)   The name, phone number and e-mail address of the City Manager, or
designee, who issued the notice of violation. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-80.   Filing complaint.
   (a)   The City Manager, or designee, shall serve the notice of violation on
the responsible party at the site of the violation by personal delivery, by
leaving a copy of the notice of violation with any adult residing at the
property, or if the property is non-residential, by leaving a copy with a
manager or other responsible adult at the premises. If neither are available,
the notice of violation may be served by:
      (1)   Personally serving a copy of the notice of violation on the
responsible party at another location;
      (2)   Posting a copy of the notice of violation in a conspicuous place at
the premises.
   (b)   In the event personal service of the notice of violation is not
successful, the City Manager, or designee, shall mail a copy of the notice by
first-class mail to the last known address of the responsible party as
reflected in the city's or county assessor's records.
   (c)   Service shall be deemed complete upon personal delivery, posting, or
three (3) days after the date of mailing, as applicable.
   (d)   If it is determined that the responsible party is not the owner of the
property upon which a violation is alleged to exist, a copy of the notice of
violation shall be mailed, on the same date the notice of violation is served
on the responsible party, to the owner of the property at such person's last
known address as reflect in the city's or county assessor's records.
   (e)   The failure of any person to receive any notice required under this
Section shall not affect the validity of any proceedings or assessment under
this Article. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-90.   Abatement of nuisance.
   (a)   If the responsible person or property owner fails to bring the
property into full compliance by the deadline set forth in the notice of
violation, the City may, in its discretion, request that the Hearing Officer
conduct an abatement proceeding for the limited purposes of authorizing the
abatement of such violation and obtaining an award of costs of abatement in
addition to other penalties or costs imposed as a matter of law.
   (b)   At least seven (7) days prior to the date of the abatement proceeding,
the City shall provide written notice to each responsible party identified by
the City of the City's request and the date, time and location of the abatement
proceeding. Notice shall be given personally or by first-class mail. A
responsible party may waive the notice requirement. The failure to any person
to receive any notice required under this Section shall not affect the validity
of any proceedings taken under this Article.
   (c)   Abatement proceedings shall be limited to determining the existence of
a violation(s) on the premises, the authority of the City to abate a violation,
penalties to be imposed in the event the Hearing Officer finds one or more
violations exist on the property, and the costs of abatement. Any responsible
party may present evidence and argument regarding the alleged violation(s) on
the premises, the reasonableness and legality of the abatement and penalties.
(Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-100.   Right of entry.
   (a)   Abatement proceedings, while quasi-judicial in nature, are intended to
be informal. With the exception of qualifying expert witnesses, formal rules of
evidence and discovery shall not apply. There shall be no right to a trial by
jury.
   (b)   The parties to an abatement proceeding shall be the City and each
responsible party identified by the City. Parties may be represented by legal
counsel, may call and question witnesses and shall have the opportunity to
present evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
   (c)   The City shall bear the burden to establish by a preponderance of the
evidence the existence of each alleged violation and administrative costs
sought.
   (d)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (e)   With the exception of qualifying expert witnesses, the conduct of
abatement proceedings and the admission of evidence shall generally be as set
forth herein, without regard to whether such strictly conform to common law,
statutory rules of procedure, rules of evidence or other technical rules. The
admissibility of evidence shall be encouraged; however, the Hearing Officer may
limit evidence that has no probative value, is cumulative, confusing,
speculative, or irrelevant. The Hearing Officer may call upon his or her own
experience, technical competence and specialized knowledge in the evaluation of
evidence presented.
   (f)   Witnesses intended to give opinion testimony as experts must be
qualified as such, and their qualifications shall be submitted to the Hearing
Officer at least five (5) days in advance of the hearing.
   (g)   For good cause shown, as determined by the Hearing Officer, an
abatement proceeding may be continued to a date certain. Either party may
submit a written request for a continuance of the hearing to the Secretary. A
written request to continue the abatement hearing shall be filed with the
Secretary at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled hearing.
   (h)   At the discretion of the Hearing Officer, he or she may appear at the
abatement proceedings virtually. Unless ordered otherwise, the responsible
party or parties, and all witnesses, shall appear in person for the abatement
hearing at Council Chambers, Creede Town Hall. For good cause only, the Hearing
Officer, in his or her sole discretion, may allow a responsible party or
witness to appear at a hearing virtually. In the event a responsible party/
witness is authorized to appear at a hearing virtually, but is unable to
connect to the virtual hearing, or their connection is weak and/or sporadic,
the Hearing Officer has authority to continue the hearing to a new date and
require appearance of all parties in person at Council Chambers, Creede Town
Hall.
   (i)   Abatement proceedings shall be recorded by electronic means and the
transcripts of such recordings shall be made available upon request at the
expense of the requesting party. In no event shall either party, or other
person present at the proceeding, record the proceedings. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-110.   Cumulative remedies.
   Provided notice of the abatement proceeding has been properly made, the
failure of the responsible party to appear or participate in the hearing shall,
in the Hearing Officer's sole discretion, constitute a waiver of any
substantive challenge the responsible party shall have regarding the violation
(s), the legality of the abatement or the penalties imposed. (Ord. 453 § 1,
2024)
Sec. 7-1-120.   Concurrent remedies.
   (a)   Within fourteen (14) days of the abatement proceeding, the Hearing
Officer shall issue an enforcement order as follows:
      (1)   If the Hearing Officer determines that the City established
existence of the nuisance(s) listed in the notice of violation, the
reasonableness of and lawful basis for the abatement of a violation(s) as of
the date of the violation that still exists as of the date of hearing, the
Hearing Officer shall grant the City's request and issue an enforcement order
containing the following items:
         a.   Written findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting the
finding of liability;
         b.   A provision imposing penalties and costs as provided in this
Article; and
         c.   If applicable, a requirement that the responsible party remedy or
abate the violation(s) within a specified period of time and, if the
responsible party fails to do so, authorizing the City without further order,
to take reasonable steps to abate the violation(s) as long as the same may be
accomplished without entering any building upon the property.
         d.   If the City takes action to abate the nuisance violations(s), the
City may assess the reasonable costs of the abatement action to the property
owner.
      (2)   If the hearing officer determines that the City has not established
the existence of the nuisance(s) listed in the notice of violation, and the
reasonableness of and lawful basis for the abatement of the violation(s) as of
the date of the notice of violation, the Hearing Officer shall deny the City's
request for an enforcement order and dismiss the matter.
   (b)   Any enforcement order issued may include an award of administrative
costs if the Hearing Officer determines that the City has established the costs
by a preponderance of the evidence. The Hearing Officer may take judicial
notice of the administrative fees related to his or her time in conducting the
hearing, issuance of the enforcement order and other time associated with the
matter.
   (c)   The enforcement order shall be mailed to each responsible party
identified by the City by first-class mail to the address of the responsible
party as reflected in the City's records. The failure of any person to receive
the enforcement order under this Section shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings or assessment under this Article.
   (d)   The enforcement order shall, upon mailing to each responsible party
identified by the City, constitute a final action unless appealed directly to
the District Court of the 12th Judicial District for judicial review of such
decision pursuant to Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.
Failure to timely appeal constitutes a waiver of any right any party may
otherwise have to contest the enforcement order. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-130.   Violations and penalties.
   It is unlawful for a responsible party who has been served a copy of the
enforcement/abatement order to fail to comply with the order. Any responsible
party who fails to comply with an enforcement order is guilty of a violation of
this Section and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine, or by
confinement in jail or both, as specified in Sec.
1-4-20, "General penalty for violation," of this Code. Prosecution for failure
to comply with an enforcement order as provided herein shall not commence until
the time to appeal such order has lapsed. (Ord. 453 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 7-1-140.   Abatement not exclusive remedy.
   The abatement of real property and assessment of penalties and costs
incurred as provided in this Article shall not preclude the prosecution of any
violations of this Code in the appropriate court of record. The City may pursue
abatement of violations, prosecution of violations, and/or pursue enforcement
as otherwise provided by law. These remedies are not exclusive. (Ord. 453 § 1,
2024)
ARTICLE 2
Nuisances Enumerated
Division 1
General Provisions
Sec. 7-2-10.   Accumulation to constitute nuisances.
   The purpose and intent of this Article 2 is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare by regulating conduct or conditions that may create fire,
health or safety hazards, impair the aesthetic appearance of city
neighborhoods, or unreasonably interfere with the comfort of city inhabitants.
According, the Board of Trustees declares that every nuisance shall be unlawful
and shall be restrained, prevented, abated and enjoined. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-20.   Posting handbills, posters and placards.
   As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended:
      Owner or occupant means and includes any person, other than the City, who
alone, jointly or severally with others, for residential or commercial
purposes:
         (1)   Has any legal or equitable interest in, or possession or control
of, the whole or part of a dwelling unit, lot, open area or any real property,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
         (2)   Acts as the agent of a person having a legal or equitable
interest in a lot, open area, or any real property, dwelling or dwelling until
thereof;
         (3)   Is the general representative or fiduciary of an estate through
which a legal or equitable interest in a lot, open area, any real property or
dwelling unit is administered; or
         (4)   Is a homeowners' association having the legal authority to
enforce any covenants, rules or regulations against the dwelling unit, lot,
open area or real property or owner or occupant thereof. This Subsection shall
only apply when the dwelling unit, lot, open area or real property reasonably
appears to have abandoned and the owner or occupant, as defined herein, cannot
be located by the city through reasonably diligent efforts.
      Responsible party means any person who makes or causes any nuisance to
exist, or who is the owner or occupant of any property, real or personal, on or
with which any nuisance is found or created. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-30.   Streets, streams and water supply.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any nuisance in the City, to
permit a nuisance to occur or continue to occur on any property under such
person's control, or to permit a nuisance to be caused by or continued with any
personal property under such person's control. Further, it shall be unlawful
for any person to interfere with or prevent, or attempt to interfere with or
prevent, the abatement of any nuisance by an employee of the City, or other
person charged with such abatement. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-40.   Stagnant ponds.
   Unless indicated otherwise, a violation of any provision of this Chapter
shall be deemed a civil infraction and, as such, may be prosecuted in the
municipal court or through the City's administrative hearing process, or both.
In either event, the City shall be required to prove the violation only by a
preponderance of the evidence except when a defendant is charged with
committing multiple civil infractions, and incarceration is a penalty. In such
event, in a municipal court prosecution, the standard of proof shall be beyond
a reasonable doubt. The standard of proof in any administrative abatement
hearing shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-50.   Sewer inlet.
   (a)   Nuisance on public property. Any nuisance located or found in or upon
any street, avenue, alley, public sidewalk, highway, public right-of-way,
public grounds, park, recreation facility, or public property in the City may
be abated without notice or a hearing. In addition to abatement, the City
Manager, or designee, may issue a summons or notice of violation regarding the
nuisance.
   (b)   Emergency abatement. If the City Manager reasonably believes that a
nuisance poses imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of any person
or to property, the City Manager may cause the nuisance to be abated without
notice of hearing. In addition to abatement, the City Manager, or designee, may
issue a summons or notice of violation regarding the nuisance.
   (c)   Recovery of expense of abatement. The City may recover the costs of
abatement, plus a fifteen (15) percent administrative fee in the manner
provided for the collection of costs of abatement in Sec. 7-1-30 of this Code.
(Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Division 2
Specified nuisances
Sec. 7-2-60.   Nauseous liquids.
   (a)   Common law and statutory nuisances. Any nuisance defined or declared
as such by state statute or case law (common law) is hereby declared a nuisance
for purposes of this Chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to create any
common law or statutory nuisance in the City or to permit a common law or
statutory nuisance to occur or continue to occur on any property under such
person's control. Further, it is unlawful for any person to permit a common law
or statutory nuisance to occur in conjunction with any personal property under
such person's control.
   (b)   Specified nuisances. Any act, action, condition, situation,
circumstance or state of being identified in this Article as prohibited or
unlawful is hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-70.   Stale matter.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Section, shall have the following meanings:
      (1)   Commercial circular means any flier, notice or poster intended to
advertise, direct or attract the attention of the public to a business,
intended to induce the purchase of goods, services, property or entertainment,
or to promote business or employment opportunities.
      (2)   Fasten means to securely place a circular in such a manner as to
prevent it from being moved or removed by the elements of weather.
      (3)   Noncommercial circular means any flier, notice or poster,
including, but not limited to, circulars conveying a political, ideological or
personal message, which is not intended to advertise, direct or attract the
attention of the public to a business, not intended to induce the purchase of
goods, services, property or entertainment and not intended to promote business
or employment opportunities.
      (4)   Public property means any real property, pole, post, tree,
barricade, bridge, fence, railing, utility box, curb, sidewalk, wall, bench,
building or structure of any kind that is either publicly owned or located in
the public right-of-way. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
      (5)   Public right-of-way means the area between property boundaries that
is owned by a government or quasi-governmental entity, dedicated to public use,
or impressed with an easement for public use, which is primarily used for
pedestrian or vehicular travel and is publicly maintained, in whole or in part,
for such use, and includes, but is not limited to, the street, gutter, curb,
shoulder, sidewalk, sidewalk area, parking or parking strip, and any public
way.
   (b)   Public property restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to place on or in, fasten, affix or attach to public
property, in any way, any commercial or noncommercial circular without the
direct authorization of the property owner.
   (c)   Private property restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to place on or in, fasten, affix, or attach to private
property, including any motor vehicles and other personal property, in any way,
any commercial or noncommercial circular, without the permission of the owner
or occupants of such property. Permission to fasten such materials to the
entrances of private residences shall be implied from the presence of an
improved walkway connecting such residence directly to a public right-of-way
unless:
      (1)   Access to such walkway is physically restricted by a fence, gate or
other permanent structure; or
      (2)   A "No Trespassing" or "No Solicitation" sign or a sign prohibiting
posting is posted at or near the entrance to such residence.
   (d)   Causing violation prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person or
entity to cause another person to violate the provisions of this Section. Any
person whose business, interests or activities are advertised, furthered or
promoted by any circular shall be presumed to have caused the violation. (Ord.
453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-80.   Littering on streets or transporting garbage, manure.
   (a)   As used herein, deface includes, but is not limited to, painting,
drawing, writing, etching, scratching, scribbling, carving or otherwise marking
any surface owned, operated or maintained by any such person.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any property under such
person's control to remain in a defaced condition for longer than fifteen (15)
days when such defacement is visible to the public. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-90.   Dumping on property.
   (a)   Streets. It shall be unlawful and a nuisance to throw or deposit, or
cause or permit to be thrown or deposited, any offal composed of animal or
vegetable substance, or both, any dead animal, excrement, garbage or other
offensive material upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or public or
private grounds.
   (b)   Waterworks. It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to
throw or discharge into the waterworks of the City, including but not limited
to all reservoirs, streams, ditches, inlets, pipes, drains, filters,
sedimentation basins or other equipment or appliance used in the construction,
maintenance or operation of the same, any obnoxious substance which is subject
to decay in or pollute the waters thereof or reasonably threaten to pollute the
waters thereof.
   (c)   Livestock. It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to allow
any livestock, or any animals of any kind, to graze within two hundred fifty
(250) yards of any such open waterworks of the City, including but not limited
to all reservoirs or collection points of water for distribution, streams,
trenches, inlets, pipes or drains.
   (d)   No person shall throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or
deposited in the City anything specified in this Section, or any other
substance that would tend to have a polluting effect, into the water of any
stream, ditch, pond, well, cistern, trough or other body of water, whether
artificially or naturally created, or so near any such place as to be liable to
pollute the water. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-100.   Dead animal removal.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle of any kind within the City
unless such vehicle is constructed and loaded to prevent any load, contents or
litter from falling from the vehicle or being deposited in any way upon any
street, alley, or other public place.
   (b)   Every vehicle or trailer of any kind used to transport manure,
garbage, trash, debris, or any matter of any kind, within the City shall be
sufficiently secure to ensure that no portion of the load will fall from the
vehicle or trailer, or otherwise be deposited on any street, alley or other
public place. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-110.   Inoperable vehicles.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance to store or keep any inoperable
vehicle or tractor within the City except on property zoned for keeping such
vehicles, regardless of whether such inoperable vehicle or tractor is stored
upon a licensed, operable trailer or vehicle.
   (b)   Exceptions. The prohibitions contained in this Section shall not apply
to:
      (1)   Motor vehicle collector's items as defined and regulated by state
law that are licensed and stored in compliance with such laws;
      (2)   Inoperable vehicles or tractors that are stored and kept within a
completely enclosed building; or
      (3)   Any damaged motor vehicle, for which the owner is awaiting an
insurance settlement, limited to sixty (60) days.
   (c)   Inoperable vehicle means any competition vehicle, regardless of
condition; any motor vehicle or trailer that does not display a current license
plate and validation sticker; any motor vehicle that is not capable of travel
under its own power in its existing condition, including one or more flat or
missing tires; or any motor vehicle or trailer that would be unlawful to use or
operate on public streets or state highways in its existing condition. (Ord.
453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-120.   Junkyards and dumping grounds.
Sec. 7-2-120.   Junkyards and dumping grounds.
   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds for the
wrecking or disassembling of vehicles of any kind, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind; for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned vehicles of any kind, trucks, trailers, boats, house trailers, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or
equipment; which places are kept in such manner as to essentially interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others are hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-130.   Slaughterhouses.
   (a)   The owner, tenant or agent of any property located within the City
shall replace, or board up, all broken windows in any vacant structure on the
property within seventy-two (72) hours after the City provides written notice.
In the event the broken windows are boarded up, the material used shall be
painted to match as much as possible the color of the main body of the
structure.
   (b)   All doors, including any garage door, of any vacant structure on any
property located within the City shall be adequately locked, secured or boarded
up to prevent entry of any unauthorized persons, or any animals. Any material
used to board up doors shall be painted to match as much as possible the color
of the main body of the structure. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-140.   Vacant residential dwellings.
   (a)   Outdoor storage prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
occupant of any residential property to store or keep outdoors on such
property, or permit the outdoor storage or keeping on such property, any
materials not customarily stored outdoors in residential neighborhoods,
regardless of whether or not the materials are sheltered, covered, placed upon
a trailer, or placed within a carport or other partially enclosed structure.
Materials inappropriate for outdoor storage or keeping on a residential
property include, for purposes of illustration but not limitation, any tires,
machinery, furniture not manufactured or intended for outdoor use, fixtures and
appliances.
   (b)   Exceptions. The prohibitions contained in this Section shall not apply
to:
      (1)   Materials stored or kept within a completely enclosed building and
out of public view. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-150.   Open wells, cisterns or excavations.
   (a)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, keep,
use or maintain any portable toilet at any place within the City.
   (b)   Exceptions. The prohibition contained in this Section shall not apply
to portable toilets that are kept, used or maintained:
      (1)   By the City;
      (2)   In conjunction with a special event permit approved by the City; or
      (3)   On a construction site during the time of construction. (Ord. 453 §
2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-160.   Nonexclusive nuisances.
   (a)   Public health nuisance defined. Every act, thing or condition that is
caused, created, maintained, operated, permitted, allowed, or continued on or
through any property, real or personal, within the City that is harmful to
health, safety, welfare or property of any of the inhabitants of the City is a
public health nuisance, is unlawful, and is hereby prohibited. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the following are hereby declared to be
nuisances affecting public health:
      (1)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   All pools of stagnant water or vessels holding stagnant water in
which mosquitoes can breed;
      (3)   Abandoned, unattended or discarded refrigerators, freezers, or
other devices with compartments large enough to enclose a person, adult or
child, unless the doors of such devices have been removed;
      (4)   Carcasses of animals not buried or otherwise disposed of in a
sanitary manner within twenty-four (24) hours of death;
      (5)   Accumulation of manure, rubbish, litter, trash, rubble, refuse,
debris, paper, combustible materials, garbage, improperly stored building
materials or matter of any kind or form in which flies, mosquitoes or other
vermin can breed;
      (6)   Excavations exceeding five (5) feet in depth, wells, or cisterns
that are not covered with a locking lid or enclosed by a secure, locked fence;
      (7)   Leaking septic tanks or sewer lines or other sewage existing in an
unsanitary manner that could cause disease transmission;
      (8)   All structures, vehicles, or property that are maintained or
operated in such a manner that endanger the health, safety, property or welfare
of the inhabitants of the City;
      (9)   The depositing of petroleum products, automotive fluids or
hazardous waste materials, as define by state law, on or below the surface of
the ground, in any manner, except on property designed by law for the disposal
of such material by a person authorized to so use the property;
      (10)   The depositing of any material whatsoever, including, but not
limited to dirt, rock, debris, snow, ice, trash, garbage, rubbish, debris,
discarded materials of any kind, into the Willow Creek Flume.
   (b)   Public health nuisance prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to create any public health nuisance in the City or to permit a public health
nuisance to occur or continue to occur on any
property under such person's control. Further, it shall be unlawful for any
person to permit a public health nuisance to occur in conjunction with any
personal property under the person's control. (Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
Sec. 7-2-170.   Maintenance of property.
   (a)   Definitions. When used in this Section, the following words, terms and
phrases shall have the meanings ascribed herein:
      Blight means to have a deleterious effect on or to ruin.
      Brush means the cuttings from trees and/or bushes and shall include
fallen branches in excess of two (2) inches thick at the widest point and three
(3) feet in length and all stacks of wood, excluding lumber and neatly stacked
firewood.
      Noxious weeds means any plant that has been designated as such on the
noxious weed table as may be posted on the City's website or available from the
City Clerk's office.
      Poisonous plant means any plant that may be detrimental to health of
persons or animals including, without limitation, poison ivy and ragweed.
      Property means the owner or occupant's real property including its
fixtures and appurtenances, regardless of size. The phrase "extended property"
shall include, in addition to the privately owner property, the "adjacent
public right-of-way." The phrase "adjacent public right-of-way" shall include
all land and improvements located in the right-of-way from the centerline, and
in any public alley from the centerline of the alley to the property line. If
the centerline is within a roadway, then the extended property shall include
only that portion up to the edge of the roadway. The term "adjacent public
right-of-way" shall not include: (1) any city-designated open space; or (2)
center medians within a right-of-way of a principal or minor arterial roadway.
      Roadway means any street or road, regardless of construction method or
surface material, regularly open to the public for travel.
      Undeveloped property means any property that lacks structures or is not
serviced by water, sewer, electrical, and natural gas infrastructure.
      Weed means any herbaceous plant that, due to height, smell, appearance or
injurious nature, has a blighting influence on the neighborhood.
   (b)   Duty to maintain.
      (1)   Weeds and grass.
         a.   The owner or occupant of any developed property and any property
less than or equal to one (1) acre in size shall maintain weeds and grass to a
height of no more than eight (8) inches anywhere on or within the extended
property.
         b.   The owner or occupant of any developed property, the size of
which is greater than one (1) acre shall maintain weeds and grass to a height
of no more than sixteen (16) inches anywhere on the property and eight (8)
inches anywhere on or within the adjacent public right-of-way.
         c.   Two (2) or more contiguous lots, tracts or parcels of undeveloped
property under single ownership, whether or not platted, will be aggregated to
constitute a single property for purposes of this Section. Lots, tracts or
parcels of property separated by a public or private roadway or other right-of-
way, regardless of ownership, shall not be considered contiguous for purposes
of this Section.
         d.   Exceptions. Not withstanding the foregoing, the duty to maintain
set forth in this Subsection (b)(1) shall not apply to the following:
            1.    Ornamental grasses;
            2.   Wetlands;
            3.   Native grasses and other native plant materials identified in
the City's approved plant list available at the City Clerk's office;
            4.   Public right-of-way adjacent to property that (1) has been
actively farmed with commercial crops for the past three (3) years, (2) is
greater than one (1) acre; and (3) lacks curb, gutter and sidewalk.
      (2)   Diseased or dead wood vegetation. All trees, shrubs, hedges and
other wood vegetation within the City shall be adequately pruned or removed
when such trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges or other woody vegetation harbor
insects or disease that constitute a threat to other trees, shrubs, bushes,
hedges or other woody vegetation, or constitute a hazard in general to the
public health, safety and welfare. The stump of any tree removed due to disease
must be completely removed from the ground unless, in the opinion of a
certified arborist, the diseased stump poses no danger to surrounding
vegetation. Stumps that do not pose a danger to surrounding vegetation may
remain on the property at a height not to exceed twenty-four (24) inches.
      (3)   Poisonous plants and noxious weeds. The owner or occupant of any
property shall maintain the property such that no noxious weed or poisonous
plant grows upon the property and shall not allow seed, pollen or other
particles or emanations from such noxious weeds and poisonous plants to be
carried from such property.
      (4)   Brush. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any real
property to permit brush to remain upon such extended property for more than
fourteen (14) days.
      (5)   Encroachment of vegetation on public spaces. The owner or occupant
of any property shall cut, trim, prune or remove as necessary any trees and
other vegetation located upon such extended property in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Branches, trees and other vegetation shall be maintained so as
not to obscure any street name signs, traffic signs, traffic control devices or
sight triangles.
         b.   Branches or trees that are broken, hanging, decayed or that
otherwise threaten public property or the safe use thereof shall be removed.
(Ord. 453 § 2, 2024)
ARTICLE 3
Refuse Regulations
Sec. 7-3-10.   Accumulation of refuse prohibited.
   Any accumulation of refuse or other material on any premises, improved or
unimproved, in the City is prohibited and is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior code 12-1-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-3-20.   Responsibility for refuse on premises.
   It shall be the duty of every person, whether owner, lessee or renter of any
vacant lot, building or premises, including any place of business, hotel,
restaurant, dwelling house, apartment, tenement or any other establishment, at
all times to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition, permitting
no deposit or accumulation of refuse or materials other than those ordinarily
attendant upon the use for which such premises are legally intended.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-3-30.   Abatement.
   The abatement of any nuisance established in this Article 3, "Refuse
Regulations," shall be governed by Chapter 7, Article 1 of this Code. (Prior
code 12-1-3) (Ord. 453 § 3, 2024)
Sec. 7-3-40.   Accumulation and deposit of garbage prohibited.
   No person shall deposit or place any garbage, rubbish, waste material or
ashes in such a manner that the same is or tends to become a nuisance or in
such a manner that endangers or tends to endanger the public health. No person
having the occupancy, control or management of any premises shall cause or
permit any garbage, waste material, rubbish or ashes to be accumulated thereon
in such a manner that the same is or tends to become a nuisance, or in such a
manner that endangers or tends to endanger the public health. No person shall
in any manner throw, place, scatter, deposit or bury any garbage, rubbish,
waste materials or ashes in or upon any public street, alley or other public
place or upon his or her own premises or the premises of another.
(Prior code 12-1-4)
Sec. 7-3-50.   Trash not to be thrown in street, alley, vacant lot, etc.
   It is unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited or cast in any street,
alley and public place or upon any private property without the consent of the
owner or occupant thereof, any garbage, rubbish or trash.
(Prior code 12-1-5, Ord. 346 §3, 2009).
Sec. 7-3-60.   Responsibility of owners, lessees.
   It shall be the duty of every person, whether owner, lessee or renter of any
vacant lot, building or premises, including any place of business, hotel,
restaurant, dwelling house, apartment, tenement or any other establishment at
all times to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition, permitting
no deposit or accumulation of trash or materials contrary to the provisions of
these policies.
(Prior code 12-1-6; Ord. 346 §4, 2009)
Sec. 7-3-70.   Building materials at construction sites.
   All plaster, broken concrete, bricks, cinder blocks, stones, wood, roofing
material, wire or metal binding, sacks or loose, discarded or unused material
of any kind resulting from the wrecking, constructing or reconstructing of any
room, basement, wall, fence, sidewalk or building shall be promptly removed or
discarded in such a manner as not to be scattered about by the wind or
otherwise, and as soon as possible be removed by the person responsible for
such work. Such person shall be held liable for any scattering of such refuse
upon adjacent properties.
(Prior code 12-1-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 346 §5, 2009)
Sec. 7-3-80.   Removal of refuse from business.
   Discarded refuse, including automobile parts, stoves, furniture, wool, hides
and junkyard refuse shall be removed periodically from such respective
establishments by the proprietor so that the premises are clean and orderly at
all times. Silt and similar deposits from automobile wash racks shall be
removed to the City dump by the establishment creating such deposits. Any
accumulation of refuse that is highly explosive or inflammable, which might
endanger life or property, shall be removed to such places as approved by the
Chief of Police or the Fire Chief. The establishments responsible shall handle
such removal therefor.
(Prior code 12-1-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-3-90.   Accumulation and use of manure.
   Other than a light spread of manure which may be applied on lawns or gardens
for fertilizing purposes, manure shall not be kept on any property for any
purpose, or kept in any place for later use, but shall be either plowed under
or removed by the owner, occupant or agent.
(Prior code 12-1-9)
Sec. 7-3-100.   Burning of garbage.
   No person shall set on fire or burn any garbage, rubbish or waste material,
or any hay, grass clippings or other combustible materials, except waste paper,
in any ash pit or other receptacle or upon the ground. Any such act is a
nuisance because of smoke and odor.
(Prior code 12-1-10)
Sec. 7-3-110.   Uncollected garbage deemed nuisance, failure to comply.
   Fermenting, putrefying, odiferous or unsightly garbage, rubbish or trash
dumped in the open or uncollected at the proper time, due to failure of any
owner or occupant of property within the Town limits to comply with the terms
of these policies or any rule or regulation under this policy, is deemed a
nuisance and a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 346 §6, 2009)
Sec. 7-3-120.   Violations designated.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to:
      (a)   Permit the accumulation of any garbage, rubbish, trash or debris on
premises owned, occupied or controlled by such person.
      (b)   Throw or permit to be deposited any garbage, rubbish, trash or
debris upon any street, alley or public or private way within the City.
      (c)   Keep or maintain any garbage in an unsanitary, unhealthy or unsafe
condition. (Ord. 346 §7, 2009; Ord. 453 § 3, 2024)
ARTICLE 4
Garbage Collection
Sec. 7-4-10.   Provision of collection services.
   The City or its agents, contractors or City-licensed operators shall furnish
garbage, rubbish, waste matter and ashes collection service as provided in this
Article to all persons residing within the City.
(Prior code 12-2-2)
Sec. 7-4-20.   Contract.
   The Board of Trustees may enter into an exclusive contract or agreement with
any person for the collection and disposal of ashes, trash and garbage, or any
portion thereof, through the City; or it may, at its discretion, make provision
for the collection and disposal of ashes, trash and garbage.
(Prior code 12-2-3)
Sec. 7-4-30.   Collection of garbage and waste matter by outside operators;
exception.
   (a)   The City, by and through its duly authorized agents, employees,
contractors or City-licensed operators, shall be the sole agency for the
collection and disposal of garbage and waste matter, and no person except such
duly authorized agents, employees, contractors or City-licensed operators shall
collect or dispose of any garbage or waste matter. Nothing in this Article
shall relieve any contractor of the obligation of cleaning up premises after
completion of his or her contract.
   (b)   Nothing in this Article shall prevent an individual from hauling his
or her own waste material, provided that it is properly disposed of in
conformity with all City regulations, and that such individual is subject to
all other provisions of this Article.
(Prior code 12-2-4)
Sec. 7-4-40.   Charges for City collection services.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, establish charges for
collection service under this Article, prescribe the time and manner of payment
of such charges and adopt measures designed to enforce the payment thereof
that, in its discretion, are necessary or desirable. Such resolution, when
adopted, shall be of the same force and effect as if incorporated in this
Section.
   (b)   The amount of charges for garbage, rubbish, waste material and ashes
collection service shall be a lien upon the property served until the same is
paid. In case of failure to pay the established charges for garbage, rubbish,
waste material and ashes collection service by the owner or person having the
occupancy, control or management of any premises, within sixty (60) days after
the time prescribed for payment of such charges by the Board of Trustees, the
City Clerk shall cause a notice of such charge to be given to the owner of such
property by publishing in a newspaper in the City, for two (2) successive
weeks, a notice to such property owner of the amount of charges assessed
against his or her property and that, if such charges are not paid within ten
(10) days thereafter, the City Clerk shall certify such charges as assessed to
the County Treasurer, to be placed by him or her on such tax list for the
current year, to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected,
with a ten-percent penalty to defray the cost of collection, as provided by
state law.
(Prior code 12-2-5)
Sec. 7-4-50.   Disposition and use of funds.
   All funds collected by the City for collection service under this Article
shall be credited to a fund to be known as the Trash Fund, the proceeds of
which shall be used to defray expenses such as the furnishing and maintaining
of necessary equipment and payment of persons employed in the service, agents
or contractors of City-licensed operators.
(Prior code 12-2-6)
Sec. 7-4-60.   Collection of tree trimmings and hedge cuttings.
   Any person desiring to place tree trimmings or hedge cuttings for collection
shall cause the same to be cut not more than five (5) feet in length and
eighteen (18) inches in diameter. He or she shall place the same for collection
in the same manner and times provided for the collection of garbage.
(Prior code 12-2-7)
Sec. 7-4-70.   Collection of dead animals.
   Dead animals will be removed at the owner's expense. In no event shall a
dead animal remain undisposed of for a period longer than twelve (12) hours.
(Prior code 12-2-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-4-80.   Unauthorized molesting or removal of garbage or containers
prohibited.
   No person shall vandalize, remove, handle or otherwise disturb any garbage
or refuse containers or contents for servicing by the collectors; provided,
however, that this Section does not apply to the owner, occupant, lessee or
tenant of the residence or dwelling so placing the containers and contents.
(Prior code 12-2-9)
Sec. 7-4-90.   Promulgation of rules and regulations.
   The Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, promulgate rules and regulations
relating to the manner of preparing and accumulating garbage, rubbish, waste
material and ashes for collection; the type and kind of containers to be used
for such accumulation; the manner of use of and care for such containers; and
such other rules and regulations as, in its discretion, are necessary or
desirable in the interest of maintaining efficiency and sanitary conditions in
the garbage, rubbish, waste material and ashes collection system and service
within the City. Such resolutions, when adopted, shall be of the same force and
effect as if incorporated in this Section
(Prior code 12-2-10)
Sec. 7-4-100.   Enforcement.
   The City Manager shall have charge and supervision of the garbage, rubbish,
waste material and ashes collection system. He or she is empowered to employ
and direct all assistants, laborers, agents, contractors and employees. He or
she shall enforce the terms of this Article and the various rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder from time to time. The City Manager shall be
accountable to the Mayor and Board of Trustees in all matters pertaining to the
exercise of his or her powers and duties.
(Prior code 12-2-11)
ARTICLE 5
Reserved
ARTICLE 6
Trees
Sec. 7-6-10.   Prohibited trees.
   (a)   It is unlawful and deemed a nuisance to sell or import into the City
or plant or cause to be planted within the City limits any female box-elder
tree (Acer negundo), female cottonwood trees (Populus spices), Siberian elm
(Ulmus pumila) or other undesirable plants as designated by ordinance upon any
property within the City, and the planting or setting out of these certain
plants is declared to be a menace to public health, safety and welfare and a
public nuisance.
   (b)   The owner of any property within the City, upon which any tree listed
in Subsection (a) above has been planted after the effective date of the
ordinance codified herein, shall cut and remove such tree from his or her
property after being given fifteen (15) days' written notice to do so by the
City.
   (c)   In case of the failure of any owner of such property to cut and remove
such tree as required in Subsection (b) above, the City shall cut and remove
such tree at the property owner's expense.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-6-20.   Trees and limbs in public right-of-way.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any property adjacent to the public
right-of-way to remove any trees or limbs located in or above the public right-
of-way when such trees or limbs constitute a danger to public safety. Such
trees and limbs shall constitute a nuisance. For the purposes of this Section,
a danger to public safety shall include all trees and limbs which hinder
visibility or which may otherwise affect public health, safety and welfare, and
trees and limbs which present a structural defect which may cause the tree or
limb to fall on a person or on property of value.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-6-30.   Control of trees and shrubs.
   (a)   Trees, shrubs and other vegetation which are dead, broken, diseased or
infested by insects so as to endanger the well-being of other trees, shrubs or
vegetation or constitute a potential threat or hazard to people or property
within the City are hereby declared a nuisance.
   (b)   The City shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of any
property abutting City rights-of-way or other public property of any condition
deemed unsafe caused by trees and other vegetation overhanging or projecting
from such abutting property and onto or over such right-of-way or other public
property with such unsafe condition. The City shall correct any such unsafe
condition immediately upon the expiration of the notice period specified in the
notice of abatement.
   (c)   It is unlawful and deemed a nuisance for any person to cut, trim,
spray, remove, treat or plant any tree, vine, shrub, hedge or other woody plant
upon access-controlled arterials or other public parks and greenbelts within
the City, unless authorized or directed by the City.
   (d)   It is unlawful and deemed a nuisance for any person to injure, damage
or destroy any tree, shrub, vine, hedge or other vegetation in or upon public
rights-of-way or other public property within the City, except any person who
notifies the City of such injury, damage or destruction and makes arrangements
to repair or replace such vegetation or pay for the cost of such repair or
replacement.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 7
Animals and Fowl
Division 1 General Provisions
Sec. 7-7-10.   Confinement of animals running at large; costs.
   If any animal is found running at large contrary to the provisions of this
Article, it is hereby made the duty of the Chief of Police to take up and
confine the same in a secure place or other place provided for that purpose.
Such animal taken up and confined shall not be released until the owner or
person entitled to the possession thereof pays to the officer having possession
of such animal all costs associated with keeping such animal. Such amount shall
be turned in to the City Treasurer.
(Prior code 11-1-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-20.   Grazing upon public thoroughfares.
   It is unlawful for any person to picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle or
other livestock on or along any street, sidewalk or alley in the City in such
manner that any such animal may graze upon the grass, herbage or trees growing
upon or along any of said streets, sidewalks or alleys; or for any person to
picket, lead or hold any horse, cattle or other livestock in such a manner as
to obstruct or impede the full use of said streets, sidewalks or alleys.
(Prior code 11-1-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-30.   Hitching animals to public and private property.
   It is unlawful for any person to hitch a horse or any other animal to any
ornamental fence or railing, tree or bush, whether private or public, without
the permission of the owner thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to
hitch any such animal to any lamppost or fire hydrant of the City.
(Prior code 11-1-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-40.   Maltreatment.
   It is unlawful for any person to beat, injure or maltreat any animal.
(Prior code 11-1-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-50.   Hogs, sheep and goats prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the corporate limits
of the City any hogs, pigs, swine, sheep or goats.
(Prior code 11-1-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-60.   Cattle and horses prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any person to herd or harbor any cattle, horses or other
livestock within the corporate limits of the City.
(Prior code 11-1-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-70.   Fowl and rabbits restrained.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps within the City
limits any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, or any hare
or rabbits, to fail to keep the same securely enclosed in a pen or building, or
to permit the same to run at large or to go upon the premises of another.
(Prior code 11-1-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-80.   Premises kept clean.
   Any person who owns or controls any lot, barn, stable, shed, building or
other place where domestic fowl or animals are kept shall keep said building
and premises in a clean and sanitary condition and shall remove all manure from
the premises at least once each week.
(Prior code 11-1-9)
Division 2 Dogs
Sec. 7-7-210.   Rabies vaccination required.
   The owner, possessor or keeper of every dog within the City shall have such
dog inoculated against rabies each year and on a calendar basis thereafter.
Dogs purchased, obtained or otherwise acquired or brought into the City shall
be inoculated within thirty (30) days after such acquisition or being brought
into the City. Puppies shall be inoculated between ninety (90) days and one
hundred ten (110) days after birth, and each year on a calendar basis
thereafter. A license and renewal of the same shall be processed at the time of
each scheduled inoculation.
(Prior code 11-2-4; Ord. 304 §II, 1998)
Sec. 7-7-220.   Inoculation by licensed veterinarian.
   The inoculation required by the preceding Section shall be made by any
veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State.
(Prior code 11-2-5)
Sec. 7-7-230.   Filing of complaint.
   If a dog is impounded, it shall be the duty of the dogcatcher or any police
officer to immediately institute proceedings in the Municipal Court on behalf
of the City against the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog, if known,
charging the owner, possessor or keeper with a violation of the appropriate
section of this Article. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as
preventing the dogcatcher, any police officer or any citizen from instituting a
proceeding in the Municipal Court for violation of this Article where there is
no impoundment.
(Prior code 11-2-15)
Sec. 7-7-240.   Notice of impoundment.
   As soon as practicable after the date of impoundment, the dogcatcher shall
notify the owner, possessor or keeper of such dog if the address of such person
is known.
(Prior code 11-2-16; Ord. 206 §2, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-250.   Disposal of abandoned dog.
   If a complaint has not been filed in Municipal Court because the owner,
possessor or keeper of an impounded dog is not known or cannot be located, and
such dog is not claimed within three (3) days from the date of impoundment, not
counting the first day of impoundment, the dog may be disposed of in any humane
manner prescribed by the dogcatcher or by persons authorized to do so by the
City Manager.
(Prior code 11-2-18; Ord. 206 §2, 1976)
Sec. 7-7-260.   Interference with dogcatcher or police officer.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct the dogcatcher or any police officer in the discharge of his or her
official duties under this Article.
(Prior code 11-2-20)
Sec. 7-7-270.   Instigating or encouraging dogfights prohibited.
   No person shall cause, instigate or encourage any dogfight within the City.
(Prior code 11-2-21)
Sec. 7-7-280.   Confinement or muzzling of dogs during rabies danger.
   Whenever the Mayor finds that any danger exists from hydrophobia or other
danger exists from dogs running at large within the City, he or she shall issue
a proclamation requiring every owner, possessor or keeper of any dog within the
City to confine or securely muzzle the same for such time as he or she may
designate. During such time, it shall be unlawful for any dog to be within the
City unless so securely muzzled with a good and substantial wire or leather
muzzle securely fastened and put on so as to prevent such dog from biting. It
shall be the duty of the dogcatcher and all police officers of the City to take
up and impound any dog that may be found during the time so designated by the
Mayor as aforesaid unless muzzled or confined as herein provided.
(Prior code 11-2-22)
Sec. 7-7-290.   Female dogs in heat.
   Any unspayed female dog, while in heat, shall be securely confined during
such period in the owner's yard, pen or other enclosure. Such yard, pen or
other enclosure shall be so constructed or situated as to prevent other dogs
from gaining access thereto.
(Prior code 11-2-23; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-300.   Running at large prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or keeper of any dog in the
City to permit the same to run at large within the City. A dog shall be deemed
to be running at large when off or away from the premises of the owner,
possessor or keeper thereof and not under the immediate control of such owner,
possessor or keeper or the agent, servant or member of the immediate family of
the owner, possessor or keeper. The term immediate control means that the dog
is either on a leash, cord or chain not more than ten (10) feet in length or
under the immediate voice control of the owner. Voice control means that the
dog is within sight of the person having control, is less than one hundred
(100) feet distant from the person having control, and is at all times under
actual voice control (as opposed to presumed or constructive control), as
needed, regardless of the circumstances.
(Prior code 11-2-24; Ord. 293 §1, 1993)
Sec. 7-7-310.   Dogs prohibited in ball park.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to enter the playing surface of the
ball field, whether said dog is leashed or not leashed.
   (b)   Any owner of or person responsible for any dog violating this Section
shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
1-4-20 of this Code.
   (c)   Owners of or persons responsible for dogs are directed to take their
dogs to the area west of the railroad right-of-way for the purpose of walking
their dogs.
(Ord. 314 §§1—3, 2000; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 7-7-320.   Vicious dogs.
   No person shall own, keep, possess or harbor a vicious dog within the City.
For the purposes of this Article, a vicious dog is hereby defined and declared
to be a dog that, unprovoked, bites or attacks human beings or other animals,
either on public or private property, or in a vicious or terrorizing manner
approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public ground or place. It shall be the duty of the dogcatcher
and all police officers to take up and impound any dog, which is a vicious dog.
In the event a vicious dog cannot be taken up and caught by the dogcatcher or
any police officer without such dogcatcher or police officer exposing himself
or herself to danger of personal injury from such dog, it shall be lawful for
the dogcatcher or any police officer to forthwith destroy such dog without
notice to the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Prior code 11-2-25)
Sec. 7-7-330.   Confinement of biting dogs.
   (a)   The owner, possessor or keeper of any dog which has bitten or which is
suspected to have bitten any person or which is suspected of having rabies
shall immediately notify the dogcatcher or any police officer of such fact.
   (b)   Any dog which has bitten or which is suspected to have bitten any
person or which is believed to have rabies or to have been exposed to rabies
shall be confined, upon order of the dogcatcher or any police officer, for a
period of ten (10) days for observation. Such dog shall either be confined at
the residence of the owner, possessor or keeper thereof, if such confinement
can be accomplished without exposing such dog to the public, or, at the option
of the dogcatcher or any police officer, such dog shall be confined at the City
Pound or at a private veterinary hospital at the expense of the owner,
possessor or keeper of the dog. It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor
or keeper of such dog to permit such dog during confinement to come into
contact with the public.
(Prior code 11-2-26)
Sec. 7-7-340.   Notice not required for prosecution.
   For the purpose of prosecution for violations of this Article, it shall not
be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or knowledge on
the part of the owner, possessor or keeper of the dog in question that such dog
was violating any of the provisions of this Article at the time and place
charged, it being the purpose and intent of this Article to impose strict
liability upon the owner, possessor or keeper of any dog for the actions,
conduct and condition of such dog.
(Prior code 11-2-27)
CHAPTER 8
Vehicles and Traffic
Article 1   Model Traffic Code
   Sec.
8-1-10   Adoption
   Sec.
8-1-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
8-1-30   Amendments
   Sec.
8-1-40   Application
   Sec.
8-1-50   Interpretation
   Sec.
8-1-60   Regulation of traffic
   Sec.
8-1-70   Willow Creek Flume regulations
   Sec.
8-1-80   Violation; penalty
Article 2   Snowmobile Regulations
   Sec.
8-2-10   Applicability
   Sec.
8-2-20   Definitions
   Sec.
8-2-30   Snowmobile use restrictions
Article 3   OHV Regulations
   Sec.
8-3-10   Off-highway vehicles
ARTICLE 1
Model Traffic Code
Sec. 8-1-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to Title 31, Article 16, Parts 1 and 2, and Title 30, Article 15,
Part 4, C.R.S., there is hereby adopted by reference Articles I and II,
inclusive, of the 2010 edition of the Model Traffic Code promulgated and
published as such by the Colorado Department of Transportation, Safety and
Traffic Engineering Branch, 4201 East Arkansas Avenue, EP 700, Denver, Colorado
80222. The subject matter of the Model Traffic Code relates primarily to
comprehensive traffic control regulations for the City. The purpose of this
Article and the Code adopted herein is to provide a system of traffic
regulations consistent with state law and generally conforming to similar
regulations throughout the State and the Nation. A copy of the Model Traffic
Code adopted herein is now filed in the office of the Clerk of the City of
Creede, Colorado and may be inspected during regular business hours.
(Ord. 303 §1, 1998; Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 412 § 1, 2018)
Sec. 8-1-20.   Copy on file.
   One (1) copy of the Model Traffic Code adopted herein is now filed in the
office of the City Clerk and may be inspected during regular business hours.
The 2003 edition of the Model Traffic Code is adopted as if set out at length.
(Ord. 288 Part Four, 1992; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 8-1-30.   Amendments.
   The Model Traffic Code is subject to the following additions, modifications
and amendments: none.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 8-1-40.   Application.
   This Article shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk area, driveway,
park, and to every other public way or public place or public parking area,
either within or outside the corporate limits of this Municipality or County,
the use of which this Municipality or County has jurisdiction and authority to
regulate. The provisions of sections 1401, 1402, 1413 and Part 16 of the
adopted Model Traffic Code, respectively concerning reckless driving, careless
driving, eluding a police officer and accidents and accident reports shall
apply not only to public places and ways but also throughout this Municipality
or County.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 412 § 3, 2018)
Sec. 8-1-50.   Interpretation.
   This Article shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its
general purpose to conform with the State's uniform system for the regulation
of vehicles and traffic. Article and section headings of this Article and the
adopted Model Traffic Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in
any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any article
or section thereof.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 412 § 6, 2018)
Sec. 8-1-60.   Regulation of traffic.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Model Traffic Code as adopted in
this Article, and in order to regulate the flow of traffic at certain
intersections within the City, there are hereby established the following
control devices at the following locations, which shall be officially
designated by the use of proper signs of types uniform throughout the State:
   (1)   At the intersection of Third Street and Loma Avenue, traffic
proceeding east on Third Street shall be compelled to stop and thereafter yield
to oncoming traffic. Such stop sign shall be placed on the south shoulder of
Third Street facing west, to control such eastbound traffic.
   (2)   At the intersection of Third Street and Rio Grande Avenue, traffic
proceeding north on Rio Grande Avenue shall be compelled to stop and thereafter
yield to oncoming traffic. Such stop sign shall be placed on the east side of
Rio Grande Avenue facing south to control such northbound traffic.
   (3)   At the intersection of Third Street and Rio Grande Avenue, traffic
proceeding west on Third Street shall be compelled to yield to oncoming
traffic. Such yield sign shall be placed on the north shoulder of Third Street
facing east to control such westbound traffic.
   (4)   At the intersection of Rio Grande Avenue and Fifth Street, traffic
proceeding south on Rio Grande Avenue shall be compelled to stop and thereafter
yield to oncoming traffic. Such stop sign shall be placed on the west side of
Rio Grande Avenue facing north to control such southbound traffic.
(Ord. 210 §2, 1977; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 8-1-70.   Willow Creek Flume regulations.
   It is unlawful for anyone to ride, drive or navigate any motorized vehicle
using an internal combustion engine, while the engine is running, on any of the
footbridges across the Willow Creek Flume within the City limits.
(Ord. 318 §1, 2001)
Sec. 8-1-80.   Violation; penalty.
   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
Article:
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions adopted
in this Article.
   (b)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in this
Article shall be punished by a fine set at the discretion of the Municipal
Judge.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 412 § 2, 2018)
ARTICLE 2
Snowmobile Regulations
Sec. 8-2-10.   Applicability.
   State laws regulating snowmobiles shall be applicable upon all streets
within the City, except as this Article sets forth additional restrictions and
regulations on speed, use, travel and markings.
(Ord. 185 §15-2-1, 1972; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 8-2-20.   Definitions.
   As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   Operate means to ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   Operator means every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
a snowmobile.
   Owner means a person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or
title to a snowmobile and entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   Roadway means the portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   Snowmobile means a self-propelled vehicle primarily designed for travel on
snow or ice, and supported in part by skis, belts or cleats.
   Street, road, freeway or highway means the entire right-of-way between
boundary lines of any of such public ways when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purpose of motor vehicle travel.
(Ord. 185 §15-2-21, 1972; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 8-2-30.   Snowmobile use restrictions.
   (a)   Location.
      (1)   The use of snowmobiles within the City shall not be allowed, except
as follows:
         a.   Along Fifth Street, Third Street, Wall Street, Loma Avenue and
Capitol Avenue as a means of entering and exiting the City limits. Travel on
the above streets for any other purpose shall be illegal. All routes from
residences to the above exit streets shall be the most direct route.
         b.   During emergencies as declared by the Mayor or, in his or her
absence, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief, snowmobiles may be used for the
purposes designated by the Mayor, Chief of Police or Fire Chief.
      (2)   In addition to the above, a snowmobile may be operated on streets
and highways under the jurisdiction of the City only when such operation is
authorized by special ordinance or addition to this Code and appropriate notice
is given thereof, and then only in the manner and on such streets prescribed by
such ordinance consistent with the provisions of state law.
   (b)   Speed. The maximum speed of snowmobiles within the City limits shall
be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   (c)   Right-of-way. Snowmobiles shall yield to all other street vehicles,
all of which shall have the right-of-way.
   (d)   Masts. All snowmobiles operating within the City limits shall have a
five-foot mast attached to the snowmobile in a vertical position, with thirty
(30) square inches of fluorescent flagging at the highest point of such mast.
   (e)   Hours. Snowmobiles shall not be operated within the City except during
daylight hours, without first obtaining permission from the Chief of Police.
   (f)   Rallies. No rallies shall be held within the City without first
obtaining written permission from the Chief of Police.
   (g)   Penalty. Violations of any provision of this Section shall be
misdemeanors and punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
(Ord. 185 §15-2-33, 1972; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
OHV Regulations
Sec. 8-3-10.   Off-highway vehicles.
   (a)   As used in this Section, "off-highway vehicle" shall have the meaning
given in Colorado Revised Statute § 33-14.5-101, as amended from time to time.
   (b)   As used in this Section, "public road" means and shall include any
road, street, alley, avenue, thoroughfare, public way, or other public property
within the City of Creede.
   (c)   It shall be lawful to operate off-highway vehicles on the following
public roads within the City of Creede: Loma Avenue in its entirety, Third
Street in its entirety, and La Garita Street from Third Street to Seventh
Street.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful to operate off-highway vehicles on public roads
that are part of the state highway system as well as roads that are not
designated in section c) of this Article 3.
   (e)   It shall be lawful to operate off-highway vehicles on certain public
roads as designated in section (c) of this Article 3 within the City of Creede,
provided that:
      (1)   The operator of the off-highway vehicle has in his or her
possession a valid motor vehicle driver's license or operator's license.
      (2)   The operator of the off-highway vehicle shall have in full force
and effect a complying policy of insurance under the terms of Part 6, Article
4, Title 10, of the Colorado Revised Statutes, covering such off-highway
vehicle.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an off-highway vehicle
on any public road in violation of the regulations of Title 42 of the Colorado
Revised Statutes pertaining to the movement of traffic on roadways within the
City of Creede.
   (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an off-highway vehicle
on any public road at a speed greater than the regularly posted speed limit.
   (h)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, authorize, suffer or
permit an off highway-vehicle owned or belonging to him or her, or that is
under his or her control, to be operated by any other person in violation of
this Section.
   (i)   Any person convicted of a violation of this Section shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $300.00, for each separate violation.
   (j)   This Section shall be enforced by any law enforcement or peace
officer, including the Mineral County Sheriff or a person designated by the
Sheriff or Creede City Manager as an Off-Highway Vehicle Enforcement Officer.
   (k)   Any fines collected by the City of Creede for violations of this
Section shall be deposited to the General Fund.
(Ord. 397 § 2, 2016; Ord. 399 § 1, 2016)
CHAPTER 9
Development Code
Article 1   General Provisions
   
Sec. 9-1-10   Short title
   
Sec. 9-1-20   Authority
   
Sec. 9-1-30   Purposes
   
Sec. 9-1-40   Interpretation
   
Sec. 9-1-50   Computation of time
   
Sec. 9-1-60   Applicability
   
Sec. 9-1-70   Applicability to public agencies
   
Sec. 9-1-80   Exemption for essential services
   
Sec. 9-1-90   Relationship to comprehensive plan
   
Sec. 9-1-100   Fees
   
Sec. 9-1-110   Transition to Creede Development Code
   
Sec. 9-1-120   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
Sec. 9-1-130   Severability
   
Sec. 9-1-140   Save harmless clause
   
Sec. 9-1-150   Disclaimer of liability
   
Sec. 9-1-160   Violations
   
Sec. 9-1-170   Penalties
   
Sec. 9-1-180   Civil infraction
   
Sec. 9-1-190   Enforcement authority and procedures
   
Sec. 9-1-200   Enforcement actions and remedies
Article 2   Development Application Review Authority
   
Sec. 9-2-10   Purpose
   
Sec. 9-2-20   Summary table of review authority
   
Sec. 9-2-30   Board of Trustees
   
Sec. 9-2-40   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
Sec. 9-2-50   City Manager
   
Sec. 9-2-60   Board of Adjustments
   
Sec. 9-2-70   Other departments and agencies
Article 3   Development Review Procedures
   
Sec. 9-3-10   Purpose
   
Sec. 9-3-20   General procedures and requirements
   
Sec. 9-3-30   Comprehensive plan amendment
   
Sec. 9-3-40   Code text amendment
   
Sec. 9-3-50   Zoning amendments
   
Sec. 9-3-60   Planned unit development (PUD)
   
Sec. 9-3-70   Subdivisions
   
Sec. 9-3-80   Special review use
   
Sec. 9-3-90   Variance
   
Sec. 9-3-100   Right-of-way vacation
   
Sec. 9-3-110   Vested property right
   
Sec. 9-3-120   Forfeiture of vested property rights
   
Sec. 9-3-130   Location, character and extent
   
Sec. 9-3-140   Appeal
Article 4   Zone Districts and Official Zoning Map
   
Sec. 9-4-10   Purpose
   
Sec. 9-4-20   Districts established
   
Sec. 9-4-30   Official zoning map
   
Sec. 9-4-40   Zoning map interpretation
   
Sec. 9-4-50   Residential districts general purposes
   
Sec. 9-4-60   Residential District, Single-Family (R-1)
   
Sec. 9-4-70   Residential District, Two-Family and Multi-Family (R- 2)
   
Sec. 9-4-80   Downtown Business District (B-1)
   
Sec. 9-4-90   Highway Mixed Use District (B-2)
   
Sec. 9-4-100   Mobile Home Park District (MH)
   
Sec. 9-4-110   Commercial District (C)
   
Sec. 9-4-120   Industrial District (I)
   
Sec. 9-4-130   Open District (O)
   
Sec. 9-4-140   Table of permitted uses
   
Sec. 9-4-150   Table organization
   
Sec. 9-4-160   Classification of new and unlisted uses
   
Sec. 9-4-170   Table of permitted uses
   
Sec. 9-4-180   Use-specific regulations
   
Sec. 9-4-190   Accessory uses and structures
   
Sec. 9-4-200   Temporary uses and structures
Article 5   Development Standards
   
Sec. 9-5-10   Purpose and applicability
   
Sec. 9-5-20   Compact urban growth
   
Sec. 9-5-30   Blocks and lots
   
Sec. 9-5-40   Streets
   
Sec. 9-5-50   Parking
   
Sec. 9-5-60   Sidewalks, multi-use pathways and trails
   
Sec. 9-5-70   Easement and utility standards
   
Sec. 9-5-80   Parks and open space
   
Sec. 9-5-90   Dedication of public sites and open spaces
   
Sec. 9-5-100   School site dedication
   
Sec. 9-5-110   Commercial and industrial architecture
   
Sec. 9-5-120   Lighting
   
Sec. 9-5-130   Environmental considerations
   
Sec. 9-5-140   Sanitary sewer
   
Sec. 9-5-150   Potable water
   
Sec. 9-5-160   Fire hydrants
Article 6   RV Parks
   
Sec. 9-6-10   Definitions
   
Sec. 9-6-20   Review process
   
Sec. 9-6-30   Location of recreational vehicle parks
   
Sec. 9-6-40   Park development standards
   
Sec. 9-6-50   Park size and density
   
Sec. 9-6-60   Roadways and parking
   
Sec. 9-6-70   Entrances and exits
   
Sec. 9-6-80   Design of access to park
   
Sec. 9-6-90   Accessory uses
   
Sec. 9-6-100   Open space and recreational areas
   
Sec. 9-6-110   Buffering, setbacks, screening and landscaping
   
Sec. 9-6-120   Utilities
   
Sec. 9-6-130   Electricity and natural or propane gas
   
Sec. 9-6-140   Utility plans
   
Sec. 9-6-150   Refuse disposal
   
Sec. 9-6-160   Insect and rodent control
   
Sec. 9-6-170   Fire prevention and protection
   
Sec. 9-6-180   Sanitary facilities
   
Sec. 9-6-190   Service buildings
   
Sec. 9-6-200   Safety
   
Sec. 9-6-210   Miscellaneous regulations
   
Sec. 9-6-220   Permanent occupancy prohibited
   
Sec. 9-6-230   Licensing and inspection
   
Sec. 9-6-240   Revocation of license
   
Sec. 9-6-250   Responsibilities of management
Article 7   Floodplain Damage Prevention Ordinance
   
Sec. 9-7-10   Title and purpose
   
Sec. 9-7-20   Definitions
   
Sec. 9-7-30   General provisions
   
Sec. 9-7-40   Administration
   
Sec. 9-7-50   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
Article 8   Annexation and Disconnection Procedures
   
Sec. 9-8-10   Purpose
   
Sec. 9-8-20   Definitions
   
Sec. 9-8-30   Three-mile plan
   
Sec. 9-8-40   Fees and charges for annexation petitions
   
Sec. 9-8-50   Annexed property subject to all laws
   
Sec. 9-8-60   Annexation agreements
   
Sec. 9-8-70   Non-resident petitions for annexation election authorized
   
Sec. 9-8-80   Annexation election procedures
   
Sec. 9-8-90   Disconnection purpose and applicability
   
Sec. 9-8-100   Method of petition for disconnection
   
Sec. 9-8-110   Petition for disconnection by Board of Trustees
   
Sec. 9-8-120   Processing of disconnection petitions
   
Sec. 9-8-130   Standards for approval of disconnection
   
Sec. 9-8-140   Lands subject to tax for prior indebtedness
Article 9   Definitions
   
Sec. 9-9-10   General definitions
ARTICLE 1
General Provisions
Sec. 9-1-10.   Short title.
   This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Development Code," the
"Creede Development Code" or "CDC".
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-20.   Authority.
   The Development Code is adopted and enacted pursuant to the authority
provided by Article 65.1 Areas and Activities of State and Local Interest,
Article 65.5 Notification of Surface Development, Article 67 Planned Unit
Development Act of 1972, and Article 68 Vested Property Rights of Title 24,
Colorado Revised Statutes; Article 20 Local Government Regulation of Land Use
of Title 29, Colorado Revised Statutes; and Article 12 Annexation -
Consolidation - Disconnection, Article 15 Exercise of Municipal Powers, Article
16 Ordinances - Penalties, Article 20 Taxation and Finance, Article 23 Planning
and Zoning, and Article 25 Public Improvements of Title 31, Colorado Revised
Statutes; and other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-30.   Purposes.
   The Development Code is intended to promote and achieve the following goals
and purposes for the Creede community, including the residents, property
owners, business owners and visitors:
      (a)   Divide the City into zones, restricting and requiring therein the
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, and other
specified uses; regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas; regulate and
determine the area of open spaces surrounding such buildings; establish
building lines and locations of buildings designed for specified industrial,
commercial, residential, and other uses within such areas; establish standards
to which buildings or structures shall conform; establish standards for use of
areas adjoining such buildings or structures;
      (b)   Implement the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan of the
City of Creede and other applicable planning documents of the City;
      (c)   Comply with the purposes stated in state and federal regulations
which authorize the regulations in this Development Code;
      (d)   Promote the safe, effective and efficient arrangement of streets
and routes for motorized recreation, passive recreation and pedestrian travel
and avoid undue traffic congestion and degradation of the level of service
provided by streets and roadways, and enhance effective, attractive and
economical pedestrian opportunities;
      (e)   Promote the design of new developments to relate to the City's
historic development pattern;
      (f)   Promote compact, well-defined neighborhoods that reinforce and
enhance the City's character, and foster a sense of community;
      (g)   Promote adequate day light, air, landscaping and open space;
      (h)   Provide a planned and orderly use of land, protection of the
environment, and preservation of viability, all to conserve the value of the
investments of the people of the Creede community and encourage a high quality
of life and the most appropriate use of land throughout the municipality;
      (i)   Prevent the inefficient use of land; avoid increased demands on
public services and facilities which exceed capacity or degrade the level of
service for existing residents; provide for phased development of government
services and facilities which maximizes efficiency and optimizes costs to
taxpayers and users; and promote sufficient, economical and high-quality
provision of all public services and public facilities, including but not
limited to water, sewage, schools, libraries, police, parks, recreation, open
space, and medical facilities;
      (j)   Minimize the risk of damage and injury to people, structures and
public infrastructure created by wild fire, avalanche, unstable slopes, rock
fall, mudslides, flood danger and other natural hazards;
      (k)   Do our practical best to meet Federal Clean Air Standard;
      (l)   Sustain water sources by maintaining the natural watershed,
preventing accelerated erosion, reducing runoff and consequent sedimentation,
eliminating pollutants introduced directly into streams, and enhancing public
access to recreational water sources;
      (m)   Maintain the natural scenic beauty of Mineral County in order to
preserve areas of historical and archaeological importance, provide for
adequate open spaces, preserve scenic views, provide recreational
opportunities, sustain the tourist-based economy;
      (n)   Promote architectural design which is compatible, functional,
practical and complimentary to Creede's mountain environment, artistic vibe,
and historic character, including but not limited to use of materials, scale,
arrangement of fenestration, entries, and roof lines, and use of decorative
architectural elements;
      (o)   Do the City's practical best to achieve innovation and advancement
in design of the built environment to improve efficiency, reduce energy
consumption, reduce emission of pollutants, reduce consumption of non-renewable
natural resources, and attain sustainability;
      (p)   Achieve a diverse range of attainable housing which meets the
housing needs created by jobs in the City of Creede, provides a range of
housing types and price points to serve a complete range of life stages, and
promotes a balanced, diverse, and stable full-time residential community which
is balanced with the visitor economy;
      (q)   Promote quality real estate investments by disclosing risks, taxes
and fees; by incorporating practical and comprehensible legal arrangements; and
by promoting accuracy in investment expectations; and
      (r)   Promote the health, safety, and welfare of the Creede community.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-40.   Interpretation.
   (a)   Conflict of laws. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Development Code shall be held to be minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare. Whenever the
requirements of this Development Code are more or less restrictive than the
requirement of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances,
including any applicable state or federal regulations, the more restrictive
regulation or the regulation imposing the higher standards shall govern.
   (b)   Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this Development Code shall be construed according to the stated
purposes in this Development Code. All provisions, terms, phrases, and
expressions contained in this Development Code shall be construed according to
the general purposes set forth in §
9-4-30 and the specific purpose statements set forth throughout this
Development Code. The stated purpose in a specific Section of this Development
Code shall control over the general purposes stated in §
9-4-30 to the extent of any conflict in the stated purposes.
   (c)   Headings, illustrations and text. In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the text of this Development Code and any heading,
caption, figure, illustration, table, or map, the text shall control.
   (d)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "for example," "including," and "such
as," or similar language are intended to provide examples and shall not be
interpreted as exhaustive lists of all possibilities or requirements.
   (e)   References to other regulations/publications. Whenever reference is
made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be
construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such regulation,
resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, unless otherwise
specifically stated.
   (f)   Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this Development Code
to be carried out by a specific official of the City may be carried out by a
designee of such official. The Board of Trustees, in open session, shall be
authorized to carry out any act or designate any official to carry out any act
authorized by this Development Code.
   (g)   Technical and nontechnical terms. Words and phrases not otherwise
defined in this Development Code shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language. Technical words and phrases not otherwise
defined in this Chapter which may have acquired a particular and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning. The
most recent version of Webster's Dictionary or the most recent version of
Black's Law Dictionary may be used to interpret the definition of a word or
phrase not defined in this Development Code.
   (h)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of the City of Creede unless
otherwise indicated.
   (i)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words "shall," "must," or
"will" are always mandatory, and the words "may" or "should" are always
discretionary.
   (j)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   "And" indicates that all connected items, provisions, or events
shall apply; and
      (2)   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
   (k)   Tenses and plurals. Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the
singular.
   (l)   Relationship to third-party agreement. The Development Code is not
intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of private agreements or restrictive covenants running with
land. Where the Development Code imposes a greater restriction than that of any
other law, contract, or deed, the provisions of the Development Code shall
control. Nothing in the Development Code shall modify or repeal any private
covenant or deed restriction, but such covenant or restriction shall not excuse
any failure to comply with the Development Code. In no case shall the City be
obligated to enforce the provisions of any easement, covenants or agreements
between private parties.
   (m)   Authority of City Manager to interpret. The City Manager, or his or
her designee, has authority to render an interpretation or usage of terms used
in this Development Code as applied to a specific development applications or
activity or where such term or phrase is not defined in this Development Code.
The City Manager shall use the rules of interpretation set forth in this
Section and shall render interpretations in writing upon request. The written
interpretation of the City Manager may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment
in accordance with §
9-3-140, Appeal.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-50.   Computation of time.
   This Section shall apply to the requirements and procedures of this Chapter.
The time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last day is a
Saturday, Sunday, an official holiday recognized by the State of Colorado, or
any official holiday recognized by the City of Creede, the last day shall be
deemed to be the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or official holiday.
The failure of the City to perform any act within the time frame required for
the City shall not be deemed to be an automatic approval by the City or a
waiver of the City's ability to review an application for development for
compliance with the applicable standards and regulations. The following time-
related words shall have the following meaning:
   (a)   "Day" means a calendar day unless working day is specified;
   (b)   "Week" means seven (7) calendar days;
   (c)   "Month" means a calendar month; and
   (d)   "Year" means a calendar year, unless a fiscal year is indicated.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-60.   Applicability.
   (a)   Jurisdiction. The Development Code shall be effective throughout the
City of Creede's corporate boundaries. The City of Creede's planning
jurisdiction includes all land within the City of Creede and the land within
three (3) miles of the City of Creede's corporate boundaries to the extent of
the City's major street plan. A copy of a map showing the boundaries of the
City of Creede and the area within the three-mile planning jurisdiction shall
be available for public inspection in the Creede Town Hall.
   (b)   Permit requirement. The Development Code establishes procedural and
substantive rules for obtaining the necessary approval to develop land and
construct buildings and structures. Development applications will be reviewed
for compliance with the City of Creede's Comprehensive Plan, with the
regulations and standards adopted in this Development Code, or with such
regulations as are applicable in the Creede Municipal Code or state or federal
law. Issuance of a building permit or grading permit is required prior to the
commencement of any development in the City, including grading property or
erecting, constructing, reconstructing, altering, moving, or changing the use
of any building, structure, or improvement within the City. A permit shall not
be issued until the plans for development of the proposed erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, moving, use or grading fully conform
to the land development regulations in effect at the time of submitting the
permit.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-70.   Applicability to public agencies.
   The provisions of the Development Code shall apply to all public bodies,
districts, and agencies of the federal, state, county, and municipal
governments to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-80.   Exemption for essential services.
   The normal maintenance by public utilities, special districts, or municipal
departments of underground, surface, or overhead electrical, television, steam,
gas, fuel, water, sewer, or storm drainage transmission, collection, or
distribution systems, including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarms and police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and similar equipment in connection therewith are exempted from the
application of this Development Code. Not included in the exemption granted by
this Section is the construction or alteration by public utilities or special
districts of any aboveground systems or improvements within the right-of-way
pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 11 of the Creede Municipal Code. Business
offices and maintenance yards of such public utilities, special districts, or
municipal departments are not included in the exemption granted by this
Section.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-90.   Relationship to Comprehensive Plan.
   (a)   Implementation. It is the intention of the City that the Development
Code implements the planning policies adopted in the City of Creede
Comprehensive Plan (including related documents as all may be amended or
updated from time to time as defined in Article 8) for the City of Creede and
its extraterritorial planning area. This Development Code and any amendment to
it may not be challenged on the basis of any alleged nonconformity with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (b)   Advisory Only. Pursuant to C.R.S. 31-23-206 the Creede Comprehensive
Plan is advisory only.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-100.   Fees.
   (a)   Fees. Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration,
peer review by professionals qualified in fields relevant to development
applications, inspection, publication of notice and similar matters will be
charged to applicants for all development applications. The Board of Trustees
may adopt, amend and update a schedule of fees by resolution. The City Manager
may require additional fees when deemed necessary and reasonable based on the
nature and character of the review required or where unusual issues are
presented which may require additional review.
   (b)   Pass through accounts. All development applications shall be treated
as pass-through accounts whereby the applicant shall be liable for all costs of
review incurred by the City. Additional review fees may be requested if the
initial amount designated in the Fee Schedule is not sufficient for the cost of
application review. Upon request by the applicant, the City shall provide an
estimate of the cost for review of a development application. The City Manager
may withhold processing and review of a development application where the
applicant has not provided sufficient fees to continue or complete the
application review. The City shall return the balance of any unused application
review fees when the application process is complete.
   (c)   Payment in-full required. All development applications shall be
required to pay the City in full for all costs incurred for the review of a
development application. Payment in full to the City of the costs incurred for
development application review shall be a condition to each and every
development application. The failure to pay the City in full for the costs
incurred for development application review within thirty-five (35) days of
final approval shall render any such approval null and void. The Board of
Trustees may waive this requirement, reduce fees or extend the time period for
payment.
   (d)   Interest on delinquent fees. Development application review fees and
charges which are not paid within thirty (30) days of sending an invoice shall
be deemed to be past due and shall bear interest at the rate one percent (1%)
interest per month.
   (e)   Lien for delinquent fees. All delinquent development application
review fees and charges along with such interest that has accrued thereon shall
be subject to a lien on the property which the development application
concerned and all such delinquent charges may be certified to the Treasurer of
Mineral County, Colorado and may be collected and paid over to the City of
Creede by the Treasurer of Mineral County, Colorado in the same manner as taxes
are as authorized by C.R.S. §31-20-105.
   (f)   Agreement for payment of development review expenses incurred by city.
City may require the owner/developer to sign an agreement for the payment of
development review fees and other expenses incurred by the city as a condition
of development within the city, including but not limited to, annexation,
subdivision, a change of land use, installation of public improvements and the
issuance of building permits.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016; Ord. 447 § 1, 2023)
Sec. 9-1-110.   Transition to Creede Development Code.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to clarify the status of
properties with pending applications or recent approvals, as those terms are
used below, and properties with outstanding violations, at the time of the
adoption of the Development Code.
   (b)   Effective date. The provisions of the Development Code shall become
effective on April 1, 2016. Development plans approved under previous
regulations that received vested property rights by approval of the Board of
Trustees shall be valid for the duration of that vested property right provided
that all terms and conditions of such vested right approval are followed.
Existing legal uses that may become nonconforming by adoption of this Code
shall become legal nonconforming uses subject to the provisions of this
Section.
   (c)   Violations continue. Any violation of the previous Creede Land Use
Code, shall continue to be a violation under the Development Code and shall be
subject to the penalties and enforcement in this Article.
   (d)   Preliminary subdivision and PUD approvals. Preliminary subdivision and
preliminary PUD approvals granted prior to the effective date of the
Development Code shall be considered as approved pursuant to the Development
Code. Preliminary subdivision and PUD approvals granted under the previous
regulations shall be valid for two (2) years from the date of approval unless a
vested right providing a longer period was granted by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance. Extensions of preliminary subdivision plats and preliminary PUD
plans may be granted in accordance with §
9-3-20(h). Failure to obtain a final plat or final planned unit development
plan approval in the allowed time shall result in the expiration of the
preliminary plan. Applications for final subdivision plat and final planned
unit development plan shall follow application submittal requirements and
review procedures in this Development Code and shall be subject to the
standards and review criteria in this Development Code provided that this
Development Code shall not be so applied as to alter, impair, prevent,
diminish, impose a moratorium on development or otherwise delay the development
or use of a site in Creede.
   (e)   Future subdivisions. Large tracts or blocks of land contained within a
recorded subdivision that were intended or designed for re-subdivision into
smaller tracts, lots, or building sites when originally approved, shall comply
with all provisions of the Development Code.
   (f)   Projects with final approval. Development projects with final approval
that are valid on April 1, 2016 shall remain valid until their termination
date. Projects with valid approvals or permits may be completed in conformance
to the development standards in effect at the time of approval.
   (g)   Active building permits. Any building or development for which a
building permit was granted prior to April 1, 2016 shall be allowed to proceed
to construction under the regulations in place when the building permit was
issued. If the development for which the building permit is issued prior to
April 1, 2016 fails to comply with the time frames for development established
for the building permit, the building permit shall expire and future
development shall comply with the requirements of the Development Code.
   (h)   Violations, enforcement and penalties. A use, structure, or lot not
lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of the Development Code is deemed
lawful
and conforming as of the effective date of the Development Code if it conforms
to all of the requirements of the Development Code. Payment shall be required
for any civil penalty assessed under the previous code, even if the original
violation is no longer considered a violation under the Development Code.
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-120.   Nonconforming uses and structures.
   (a)   Intent. Within the districts established by this zoning code, or
amendments thereto that may be adopted, there may exist lots, structures and
uses of land and structures, which were lawfully established before this
Development Code was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this Development Code or by future
amendment to the Development Code. It is the intent of this Section to permit
these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, abandoned or more
than fifty percent (50%) destroyed. It is the further intent of this Section
that nonconforming structures and uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district, except as provided in this Section.
   (b)   Uses of land. Where at the time of the passage of this Development
Code, or amendment thereof, lawful use of land existed which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this Development Code, the use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this Development Code;
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this Development Code;
      (3)   Any such nonconforming use of land which ceases for any reason for
a period of one hundred eighty (180) days shall be deemed abandoned, then any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations specified by this
Development Code for the district in which such land is located; and
      (4)   No additional structure, not conforming to the requirements of this
Development Code, shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of
land.
   (c)   Structures. Where a lawful structure existed at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of the Development Code that could not be built under the
terms of this Development Code by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, location on the lot or other requirements concerning the structure,
such structure may continue to exist so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity;
      (2)   Should fifty percent (50%) or more of such nonconforming structures
or nonconforming portion of a structure be destroyed by fire or other disaster
it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
zoning code unless a permit for repair or reconstruction of a damaged
nonconforming structure is issued pursuant to Subsection (d) below;
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after having been moved; and
      (4)   Additions or alterations to a nonconforming structure which meet
the requirements of the Development Code shall not be prohibited.
   (d)   Repair or reconstruction of nonconforming structures. Any repair or
reconstruction of a nonconforming use, when in compliance with all requirements
of the Development Code may result in a hardship or burden, the owner of a
nonconforming structure which is damaged by fire or other disaster by more than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost may apply to the Planning and
Zoning Commission (PZC) for a permit to repair or reconstruct the nonconforming
structure. The decision of the PZC may be appealed to the Board of Trustees in
accordance with §
9-3-130. The PZC shall use the criteria set forth in this Section to review an
application to repair or reconstruct a damaged nonconforming structure:
      (1)   The damage to the nonconforming structure was not caused by the
intentional act of criminal conduct of the owner of the nonconforming
structure, or the owner's agent or representative;
      (2)   The repair or reconstruction of the damaged nonconforming structure
as proposed by the applicant will not result in a greater degree of
nonconformity than existed immediately prior to the structure being damaged;
      (3)   The repair or reconstruction of the damaged nonconforming structure
as proposed by the applicant will be compatible and consistent with the
existing development character in the immediate vicinity of the damaged
structure;
      (4)   The damaged nonconforming structure has been brought into
compliance with the requirements of the Development Code to the maximum extent
practical; and
      (5)   The continuation of the nonconformity would not threaten the health
or safety of the Creede community, would not present risk of damage or injury
to property or persons, and would not materially or adversely affect property
values.
   (e)   Uses of structures or of structures and premises in combination. If
lawful use involving individual structures, or of structures and premises in
combination, existed at the effective date of adoption or amendment of the
Development Code that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of
this Development Code, that use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this zoning
code in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located;
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may not be extended throughout any parts of a
building, unless such building was manifestly arranged or designed for such use
at the time of adoption or amendment of the Development Code, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building;
      (3)   Any structure, or structures and land in combination, in or on
which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed;
      (4)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of one hundred and
eighty (180) days, the structure, or structure and premises in combination,
shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located;
      (5)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. Destruction, for the purpose of this
Subsection, is defined as loss of fifty percent (50%) or more or of substantial
damage to the structure;
      (6)   Any nonconforming use or nonconforming structure may be restored
provided that less than fifty percent (50%) of such structure has been
destroyed or damaged and provided that restoration commences within one hundred
and eighty (180) days of the event which caused destruction; and
      (7)   A mobile home in any zone district may be replaced with a
replacement provided that such mobile home meets all applicable building code
regulations as may be adopted from time to time and provided that such
replacement mobile home does not expand the footprint of the prior mobile home
or increase any other nonconformity.
   (f)   Lot reduction - prohibition against establishing new nonconforming
uses.
      (1)   No lot or parcel of land, nor any interest therein, shall be
transferred, conveyed, sold, subdivided or acquired either in whole or in part,
so as to create a new nonconforming use, to avoid, circumvent or subvert any
provision of this Development Code, or so as to leave remaining any lot or
width or area below the requirements for a legal building site as described in
this Development Code; nor shall any lot or portion of a lot required for a
legal building site under the provisions of this Development Code be used as a
portion of a lot required as a site for another structure.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any lot or parcel of land
which has been transferred, conveyed, sold, subdivided or acquired in violation
of this Section.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-130.   Severability.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any provision of the
Development Code, then such judgment shall not affect the validity and
continued enforcement of any other provision of the Development Code. If any
court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the application of any provision of
the Development Code, then such judgment shall not affect the application of
that provision to any other building, structure or use not specifically
included in that judgment. If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates
any condition attached to the approval of an application for development
approval, then such judgment shall not affect any other conditions or
requirements attached to the same approval that are not specifically included
in that judgment.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-140.   Save harmless clause.
   An applicant agrees to save the City, its officers, employees, and agents
harmless from any and all costs, damages, and liabilities that may occur, or be
claimed to occur, by reason of any work performed as a result of any
development approval granted by the City.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-150.   Disclaimer of liability.
   This Development Code shall not be construed as imposing upon the City, or
any official or employee of the City, any liability or responsibility for
damages of any kind to any person by reason of inspection authorized in the
Development Code, or failure to inspect, or by reason of issuance of an
application approval or building permit, or by reason of pursuing or failing to
pursue an action for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-160.   Violations.
   (a)   Compliance required. It is unlawful for any person to commence, or any
property owner or lessee to allow any development activity or subdivide land
within the entire area of the City without having first complied with the
provisions of the Development Code. In the territory subject to subdivision
jurisdiction beyond the municipal limits, it is unlawful for any person to
subdivide land without having conformed with the major street plan of the City.
   (b)   Permit or approval based on materially false information. Any building
permit or approval authorized by the Building Official that is issued in
reliance upon any materially false statement in the development application or
in supporting documents or oral statements, is void from the beginning and
shall be revoked.
   (c)   Transfer or sale of interest prior to final subdivision approval. It
is unlawful for any person to transfer or sell, or agree to sell any lot,
tract, parcel, site, separate interest (including a leasehold interest),
condominium interest, timeshare estate, or any other division within a
subdivision within the City until such subdivision has been approved in writing
by the Board of Trustees and a plat thereof recorded in the office of the
Mineral County Clerk and Recorder. A written agreement to sell a condominium
unit prior to final subdivision approval shall not constitute a violation of
this Section if: The written agreement is expressly conditioned upon approval
of the Board of Trustees of the final subdivision plat and all related
documents, the preliminary plan has been approved by the Board of Trustees, the
written agreement provides that the prospective buyer or purchase is entitled
to terminate the written agreement and is entitled to receive the full amount
of any monies deposited, and the form of the written agreement has received
approval by the City Attorney prior to using the form of such written agreement
with a prospective purchaser or buyer.
   (d)   Public nuisance. Violations of this code may coincide with actions or
conditions that are identified as a public nuisance in Chapter 7 of the Creede
Municipal Code. When that is the case, the Board of Trustees may proceed under
this m as well as the procedures of Chapter 7.
   (e)   Persons liable. The owner of property upon which any violation of this
Development Code occurs shall be held responsible for the violation and be
subject to the penalties and remedies provided in this Section.
   (f)   Violations cumulative. Any person violating any of the provisions of
the Development Code shall be deemed to have committed a civil infraction for
each and every day or portion of a day during which any infraction is
committed, continued or permitted.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-170.   Penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of the Development Code shall be
subject to the penalties contained in Article 4 of Chapter 1 of the Creede
Municipal Code. Any remedies provided for in this Section shall be cumulative
and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by
law. The imposition of any penalty under this Development Code shall not
preclude the City or affected property owner from instituting any appropriate
action or proceeding to require compliance with the provisions of this
Development Code.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-180.   Civil infraction.
   Every person violating any provision of this Development Code shall be
deemed to have committed a civil infraction for each and every day or portion
of a day during which any infraction is committed, continued, or permitted and
shall be subject to the penalties contained in Article 4 of Chapter 1 of the
Creede Municipal Code.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-190.   Enforcement authority and procedures.
   (a)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of the Development Code, or whenever the City Manager has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the Development Code, the City Manager may enter such
building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform
any duty imposed upon the City Manager by the Development Code. If such
building or premises are occupied, the City Manager shall first present proper
credentials and demand entry. If such building or premises are unoccupied, the
City Manager shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry.
The City Manager shall be accompanied by a duly authorized law enforcement
officer.
   (b)   Refusal of entry. Should entry be refused, the City Manager shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. When the City Manager
shall have first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided
by law to secure entry, no owner or occupant or any other person having charge,
care, or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect, after
proper demand is made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by
the City Manager for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to the
Development Code. Any person failing or refusing to permit entry shall be
deemed to have committed a violation of this Section.
   (c)   Enforcement procedures. If the City Manager finds that any provision
of the Development Code is being violated, the following actions may be taken:
      (1)   Non-emergency violations. In the case of violations of this
Development Code that do not constitute an emergency or require immediate
attention, written notice of the nature of the violation and required
corrective action to be taken shall be given to the property owner, agent,
occupant, or to the applicant for any relevant permit. Notice shall be given in
person, by certified U.S. Mail (return receipt requested), or by posting notice
on the premises. The notice shall specify the Development Code provisions
allegedly in violation, and shall state that the individual has a period of
thirty (30) days from the date of the notice of violation in which to correct
the alleged violations before further enforcement action shall be taken. The
notice shall also state any appeal and/or variance procedures available
pursuant to this Development Code. In the event that the violation is not
corrected and cured within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice of
violation, the City Manager shall refer the violation to the City Attorney who
shall promptly file a complaint in municipal court seeking penalties,
injunction, abatement and such other remedies as may be appropriate.
      (2)   Emergency violations. In the case of violations of this Development
Code that constitute an emergency as a potential imminent threat to health or
safety of the public, to public infrastructure, to damage to other properties,
or to soil erosion or water quality degradation, the City Manager may use the
enforcement powers available under this Development Code without prior notice,
but shall attempt to give notice simultaneously with beginning enforcement
action or as soon thereafter as practicable. Notice may be provided to the
property owner, agent, occupant, or to the applicant for any relevant permit.
The City Manager shall refer the violation to the City Attorney who shall
promptly file a complaint in municipal court seeking penalties, injunction,
abatement and such other remedies as may be appropriate.
      (3)   Extension of time for correction. The City Manager may grant an
extension of the time to cure an alleged violation, up to a total of ninety
(90) days, if the City Manager finds that due to the nature of the alleged
violation, it reasonably appears that it cannot be corrected within thirty (30)
days.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-1-200.   Enforcement actions and remedies.
   (a)   Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may refer violations to the
City Attorney, direct the Building Official to issue a stop work order, set a
hearing for revocation of a permit, or take such other enforcement action set
forth in this Section.
   (b)   Penalties. When a violation is referred to the City Attorney by the
City Manager or the Board of Trustees, the City Attorney shall promptly file a
complaint in municipal court or other court of competent jurisdiction seeking
penalties, injunction, abatement and such other remedies as may be appropriate.
   (c)   Deny/withhold permits. The City Manager or Building Official may deny
and withhold all permits, certificates, or other forms of authorization to use
or develop any land, structure, or improvements thereon until the alleged
violation related to such property, use, or development is corrected. This
provision shall apply whether or not the current owner or applicant for the
permit is responsible for the violation. The denial or withholding of a permit
by the City Manager or Building Official may be appealed to the Board of
Trustees as provided in §
9-3-140, Appeal.
   (d)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   Referral by City Manager. The City Manager may refer a request to
revoke a development permit or building permit to the Board of Trustees based
upon violation of the Development Code.
      (2)   Hearing required. The Board of Trustees may revoke any development
permit, building permit or other authorization, after notice and a hearing.
This Section shall not apply to the forfeiture of vested property rights.
      (3)   Notice of hearing. The hearing on the revocation of a development
permit, building permit or other authorization shall be conducted during a
regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees not less than fifteen (15)
days, nor more than forty-five (45) days from the date the notice of the
hearing is given. Notice of hearing shall be deemed given to the owner, the
owner's agent or other person to whom the development permit was issued, upon
deposit of said notice in the U.S. Mail, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the last known address of said person or to the address
of record according to the Mineral County Assessor's records. Additional
methods of service may also be utilized to give notice of the public hearing.
      (4)   Findings. Following the hearing, the Board of Trustees upon a
finding of the following, may revoke any development permit, building permit or
other authorization:
         a.   There is a departure from the approved plans, specifications or
conditions of approval;
         b.   There is a violation of any provision of the Development Code;
         c.   The development permit was obtained by false representation;
         d.   The development permit was issued in error;
         e.   Public improvements are not constructed in accordance with the
approved final plat and supplemental information; or
         f.   There is a material failure in the security granted for the
public improvements.
      (5)   Notice of revocation. Written notice of revocation shall be served
upon the owner, the owner's agent, applicant, or other person to whom the
permit was issued by certified U.S. Mail, return receipt requested, or such
notice may be posted in a prominent location at the place of the violation. No
work or construction or use of the property shall proceed after service of the
revocation notice.
   (e)   Stop work order.
      (1)   Issuance of stop work order. The City Manager or Building Official
may issue a written order to stop work on any property on which there is an
uncorrected violation of either a provision of this Development Code or a
provision of a development permit, building permit or other form of
authorization. The stop work order shall specify the Development Code
provisions allegedly in violation. Service of the order shall be given in
person, by certified U.S. Mail (return receipt requested) or by posting notice
on the premises. After any such order has been served, no work shall proceed on
any building, other structure, or tract of land covered by such order, except
to correct such violation or comply with the order. The notice shall also state
any appeal and/or variance procedures available pursuant to this Development
Code.
      (2)   Timing/notice. The stop work order may be issued in conjunction
with a notice of violation or subsequent to such notice. The stop work order
may also specify a shorter time for correction of the violation than the 30-day
period specified in §
9-4-190(c)(1) above. The stop work order shall also indicate that failure to
comply with the order may subject the violator to criminal liability as penalty
for the violation(s).
      (3)   Abatement or injunctive relief. The City Manager, through the City
Attorney, may initiate injunction or abatement proceedings or other appropriate
legal action in the District Court or other court of competent jurisdiction to
abate, remove, or enjoin such violation and to recover damages, costs, and
reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in the abatement and removal of such
violation. In any court proceedings in which the City seeks a preliminary
injunction, it shall be presumed that a violation of this Development Code is a
real, immediate, and irreparable injury to the public; that the public will be
irreparably injured by the continuation of the violation unless the violation
is enjoined; and that there is no plain and adequate remedy at law for the
subject violation. The City may also abate a public nuisance in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Article 1 of Chapter 7 of the Creede Municipal
Code.
      (4)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies provided for violations of this
Development Code shall be cumulative and in addition to any other remedy
provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
      (5)   Compliance agreement. The City Manager or the City Attorney may
enter into a compliance agreement with the following terms:
         a.   The violation shall be defined and admitted;
         b.   The manner and time frame in which the violation will be
corrected shall be defined;
         c.   The time frame for correction of the violation may not exceed six
(6) months without approval by Board of Trustees;
         d.   Prosecution of the violations shall be deferred during the time
frame for correction of violation stated in the compliance agreement;
         e.   The penalties shall be determined;
         f.   The costs of enforcement shall be determined and payment of such
costs shall be required; and
         g.   All enforcement actions and remedies may be pursued without
waiver in the event that the violation is not corrected in accordance with the
terms of the compliance agreement.
      (6)   Appeals of enforcement actions. Appeals of any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the
enforcement of this Development Code shall be made to the Board of Adjustments
in accordance with the provisions of §
9-3-140, Appeal.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 2
Development Application Review Authority
Sec. 9-2-10.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this is to define the delegation of authority and
responsibilities for review of development applications.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-20.   Summary table of review authority.
   The table in §9-3-10 summarizes the development application procedures in
the Development Code and identifies the bodies that have review and decision-
making responsibilities for each procedure. See Article 3 for details on each
procedure.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-30.   Board of Trustees.
   In addition to other authority granted by charter, ordinance, or state law,
the Board of Trustees shall have the following functions and duties related to
the Development Code:
   (a)   Application review and decision making authority as defined in
Article 2;
   (b)   Decisions on annexations of land into the City;
   (c)   Negotiation and approval of development agreements; and
   (d)   The exclusive authority to render a final decision which may be
subject to any legal challenge, whether directly or by an appeal of a decision
by the City Manager, Planning and Zoning Commission, or Board of Adjustment, on
all land use and development application decisions pursuant to this Development
Code.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-40.   Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (a)   Establishment and purpose. The purposes of the Planning and Zoning
Commission (PZC) are amended as follows:
      (1)   To implement the goals and policies of the Creede Comprehensive
Plan;
      (2)   To guide and accomplish a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious
development of the municipality and its environs, that will, in accordance with
present and future needs, best promote health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity, quality of life, and general welfare, as well as efficiency and
economy in the process of development, including, among other things, adequate
provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire, floodwaters, and
other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the
adequate provision of public utilities and other public requirements;
      (3)   To promote health and general welfare; to provide adequate light
and air, and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
      (4)   To preserve the natural beauty of the City's site and setting; to
prevent indiscriminate clearing of property, removal of trees, and earthmoving;
and to attain the objectives set out in the Development Code.
   (b)   Duties. The PZC shall have the following functions and duties:
      (1)   Review development applications, amendments to the Creede
Comprehensive Plan and amendments to this Development Code, provide
recommendations to the Board of Trustees, and render decisions as such
authority is indicated in this Article;
      (2)   Upon request and direction by the Board of Trustees, make and
recommend plans for the physical development of the City, including any areas
outside its boundaries, subject to the approval of the legislative or governing
body having jurisdiction thereof;
      (3)   Upon request and direction of the Board of Trustees, conduct
research, prepare studies, review other matters which are related to the
present conditions and future growth of the City of Creede, and provide
comments and recommendations thereon to the Board of Trustees; and
      (4)   Review and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees about the
code text amendments that address types of uses, parking standards,
streetscapes or other similar items.
   (c)   Membership. The PZC shall be composed of not less than five (5) or
more than seven (7) members appointed by the Board of Trustees. All members of
such Commission shall be registered electors of the municipality and, if any
member ceases to reside in such municipality, his or her membership on the
Commission shall automatically terminate.
   (d)   Quorum. Four (4) members of the PZC shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but in the absence of a quorum, a lesser number shall
adjourn any meeting to a later time or date. In the absence of all members, any
staff member shall adjourn any meeting to a later time or date.
   (e)   Term. The term of office for a member shall be two (2) years on an
overlapping tenure. A member of the PZC may be removed by the Board of Trustees
pursuant to §
9-2-40(j), Removal from Office.
   (f)   Vacancies. A vacancy on the PZC shall occur whenever a member of the
PZC is removed by the Board of Trustees, dies, becomes incapacitated and unable
to perform the required duties for a period of ninety (90) days, resigns or is
convicted of a felony. In the event a vacancy occurs, the Board of Trustees
shall appoint a successor to fill the vacancy and serve the remainder of the
term of the former member.
   (g)   Removal from office. A member of the PZC may be removed for
misconduct, conduct unbecoming of a City official, violation of the state code
of ethics, inefficiency or with unexcused absence from three consecutive
regularly scheduled meetings. Prior to removal, the Board of Trustees shall
conduct a hearing and shall provide written notice to the PZC member stating
the grounds for removal at least three (3) days prior to the hearing.
   (h)   Officers. The PZC shall select its own Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson from among its members. The Chair or, in the absence of the Chair,
the Vice Chair, shall be the presiding officer of its meeting. In the absence
of both the Chair and the Vice Chair from a meeting, the members present shall
appoint a member to serve as acting Chair at the meeting.
   (i)   Compensation. All members of the PZC shall serve without compensation
for their Planning and Zoning Commission services.
   (j)   Staff. The City Manager or City Clerk shall serve as the staff of the
PZC and shall provide the service of a recording secretary who shall act in the
capacity of secretary for the PZC for the purpose of receiving applications and
other material for consideration for the PZC.
   (k)   Rules and regulations. The PZC shall operate in accordance with its
own rules of procedure; provided, however, that the PZC shall submit its
proposed rules or any amendment to the rules to the Board of Trustees, which by
motion shall approve the rules or amendment and direct their adoption by the
PZC or disapprove the proposal with directions for revision and resubmission.
The rules shall be filed with the City Clerk and maintained in the records of
the City and shall be subject to public inspection. The PZC may provide for
certain variances, exceptions and exemptions from the requirements of its rules
and regulations.
   (l)   Meetings. The PZC shall meet in accordance with the rules of procedure
governing the PZC, and otherwise upon the call of the Chairperson, or in the
absence of the Chair, by the Vice Chairperson. All meetings shall be held at
the offices of the City, unless otherwise specified, with adequate notice given
to all interested parties.
   (m)   Material to be submitted. The PZC shall adopt rules and regulations
including procedures and schedules for applications requiring action by the
PZC.
   (n)   Agenda. The PZC may schedule the review of applications on the next
available agenda when the next agenda is full and will likely result in an
overly long meeting.
   (o)   Authority to retain consultants. The PZC is authorized to retain the
services of one or more consultants, provided funds have been appropriated by
the City for said purpose or paid as part of the application fee by the
applicant, to advise and assist the PZC in performing the functions prescribed
in this Section. The consultants may be retained to advise the Commission on a
single project, on a number of projects or on a continuing basis.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-50.   City Manger.
   The City Manager is authorized and directed to do the following:
   (a)   Review applications, provide recommendations and render administrative
decisions as indicated in this Chapter 9;
   (b)   Establish application submittal requirements, including content and
quantities of materials to be submitted;
   (c)   Render interpretations of the Development Code;
   (d)   Enforce all provisions of the Development Code, for which purpose the
City Manager shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer; and
   (e)   Delegate any duty set forth in this Development Code to another
official within the City when determined appropriate and efficient by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-60.   Board of Adjustments.
   (a)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Board of Adjustments
(BOA). The membership of the BOA shall be composed of the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Purpose. The BOA shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by any administrative official
charged with the enforcement of this Development Code. In addition, the BOA
shall hear and decide all requests for a variance from the requirements of this
Development Code. Such variance shall not be granted if it would be detrimental
to the public good, create a conflict with the Creede Comprehensive Plan or
impair the intent and purpose of this Development Code.
   (c)   Meetings. The meetings of the BOA shall be scheduled as necessary when
variance applications or appeals are submitted to the City. Generally, meetings
of the BOA shall be scheduled to coincide with meetings of the Board of
Trustees as is convenient.
   (d)   General rules. The BOA shall follow the general rules and procedures
of the Board of Trustees. The BOA may adopt specific rules which are consistent
with the provisions of this Article. The Chairperson of the BOA shall be the
same as the respective position with the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson may
schedule meetings of the BOA. The Chairperson may administer oaths and compel
the attendance of witnesses by application to the district court. The court
upon proper showing, may issue subpoenas and enforce obedience by contempt
proceedings. All meetings shall be open to the public. The BOA shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. It shall keep records of
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a public
record and immediately filed in the Creede Town Hall.
   (e)   Voting. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board of
Adjustments shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance
or to effect any variation in such ordinance.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-2-70.   Other departments and agencies.
   The City may request review and input of applications from other City
boards, commissions, departments, other governmental agencies, and non-
government agencies, as determined appropriate considering the nature of the
application.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 3
Development Review Procedures
Sec. 9-3-10.   Purpose.
   This Article contains regulations and the procedures for development
applications. §
9-3-20 contains regulations that are generally applicable to all development
application review procedures, described in a series of sequential steps. The
purpose is to establish uniform procedures for application types to the extent
possible. Subsequent sections identify the applicability of the common steps to
specific procedures, noting any differences between the common procedures and
those for the specific procedure. Specific procedure provisions supplement,
rather than replace, provisions of the common steps, unless the provisions
conflict, in which case the provisions of the specific procedure control. Table
9-3-10 indicates the specific review and approval procedures of this Chapter,
with Section references.
TABLE 9-3-10: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES AND REVIEW AUTHORITY
PROCEDURE                                             CITY MANAGER PZC BOT
Comprehensive Plan Amendment (§9-3-30)               R            H-R H-D
Code Text Amendment (§9-3-40)                        R            H-R H-D
Rezoning (§9-3-50)                                   R            H-R H-D
                                   Administrative PUD D                A
Planned Unit Development (§9-3-60)Preliminary PUD    R            H-R H-D
                                   Final PUD          R            H-R H-D
Administrative Subdivision (§9-3-70)                 D                A
Minor Subdivision (§9-3-70)                          R                H-D
Major Subdivision                  Preliminary Plan   R            H-R H-D
(§9-3-70)                         Final Plat         R                H-D
Annexation (Article 8)                                R            H-R H-D
Special Review Use (§9-3-80)                         R            H-R H-D
Variance (§9-3-90)                                   R            H-R H-R
Right-of-Way Vacation (§9-3-100)                     R                H-D
Vested Property Right (§9-3-110)                     R            H-R H-D
Location, Character and Extent (§9-3-120)            R            H-R H-D
Appeal (§ 9-3-130)                                                    H-D
R=Review/Recommendations; H=Public Hearing; D=Decision; A=Appeal
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-20.   General procedures and requirements.
   The following procedures shall apply to all development applications which
are reviewed under this Article 3.
   (a)   Step 1: Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference is
required for all development applications unless waived by the City Manager.
The pre-application conference serves to assist the applicant with: (1)
identifying information which must be provided for a complete development
application; (2) understanding the development application review process; (3)
identifying appropriate referral agencies for review and comment; (4) achieving
compliance with development standards, understanding relevant planning issues;
and (5) determining appropriate fees. The City Manager may include other City
representatives in the pre-application conference as deemed appropriate. The
applicant shall provide sufficient information to the City Manager at least
five (5) business days prior to a scheduled pre-application conference, unless
such time frame is waived by the City Manager. Minimum information shall
include applicant information, property description, description of proposed
development or nature of development application, and conceptual site plans or
drawings which illustrate the nature of the development application. The City
Manager may determine that the information provided is insufficient and request
additional information. If the applicant fails to provide sufficient
information for a pre-application meeting and seeks to proceed with the
application process, the City Manager may notify the PZC and the Board of
Trustees of the lack of adequate information submitted at the pre-application
conference. The City Manager may provide a written letter after the pre-
application conference summarizing application submittal requirements, review
procedures, development standards, planning issues and required fees. The
informal evaluation of the City Manager and staff provided at the pre-
application conference are not binding upon the applicant or the City. Critical
issues relevant to a development application may not be apparent at the pre-
application conference and may require additional review, submissions or
studies later in the application process.
   (b)   Step 2: Application submittal.
      (1)   Applicant. The owner of real property, or authorized representative
of the owner with a properly acknowledged power of attorney, may submit a
development application. No development application shall be received for
processing or approved, and no application for a building permit shall be
granted, when the applicant is in default under any related or unrelated
agreement or obligation to the City.
      (2)   Application submittal requirements. The applicant shall submit the
application to the City Manager. Application submittal requirements for every
application type shall be established by the City Manager on submittal forms
available at the Creede Town Hall. The City Manager may waive submission
requirements where appropriate to specific applications; however, the waiver of
any submission requirement shall not preclude the PZC or the Board of Trustees
from requiring such information where deemed necessary for evaluation of the
development application with the applicable review criteria. The minimum
submittal requirements for all applications shall include:
         a.   Completed application form;
         b.   Owner's signature or an acknowledged power of attorney if the
owner has authorized an agent or representative to act as the applicant;
         c.   Title insurance commitment which has been updated within sixty
(60) days of the application submittal along with copies of all documents
listed in the exceptions;
         d.   Legal description of the property subject to the development
application;
         e.   Development application review fees; and
         f.   Survey for current owner and no more than three (3) years old
stamped by a surveyor licensed in the State of Colorado. If property pins have
not been maintained in a satisfactory manner or are in question, a new survey
may be required.
      (3)   Required studies and reports. Reports or studies may be necessary
to adequately evaluate the development application for compliance with the
review criteria. Such reports include but are not limited to: studies of soils,
geological hazards, fiscal impacts, market analysis, traffic impacts and/or
environmental impacts. The applicant shall furnish the reports or studies
needed at the applicant's sole expense. The City may require independent peer
review of any report or study provided by the applicant. The applicant and the
City may agree to retain a mutually acceptable consultant to prepare a report
or study, which cost shall be paid by the applicant. All required reports or
studies shall be executed by professionals or other persons qualified to
provide the requested reports. The form and content of reports or studies may
be established by the City Manager.
      (4)   Concurrent review permitted. Where multiple development
applications concern the same property then the City Manager may permit
concurrent review of the development applications for efficiency and
practicality.
      (5)   Fees. Fees shall be paid in accordance with §
9-1-100, Fees.
   (c)   Step 3: Application processing.
      (1)   Determination of completeness. A development application shall be
reviewed for completeness by the City Manager within ten (10) business days
after receipt. If the application is determined to not be complete then a
written communication shall be promptly provided to the applicant indicating
the specific deficiencies in the application. The determination that an
application is complete or the failure to determine an application is
incomplete within ten (10) days shall not preclude the City from requiring
information which is necessary and relevant to evaluate the development
application for compliance with the review criteria. A determination by the
City Manager that the application is incomplete may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with the procedures in §
9-3-130, Appeal.
      (2)   Referral to other agencies. Development applications may be
referred to other agencies for review and comment. The City Manager shall
attempt to identify appropriate referral agencies and shall consider the
comments from referral agencies as part of the staff review and report. The PZC
and the Board of Trustees may determine that referral of a development
application to an agency for review and comment is appropriate where such
referral agencies may provide comments relevant to evaluating the development
application for compliance with the review criteria. Referral of development
applications to other agencies shall provide a minimum time frame for review
and comment of fourteen (14) days for development plans, and twenty-one (21)
days for preliminary subdivision, planned unit development, planned unit
development amendments, and rezoning; however, the time frame for review and
comment may be extended if the development application presents technical
issues which require additional review, if additional information is provided
by the applicant or the application is modified. Referral agencies may include,
but are not limited to:
         a.   Any utility, local improvement or service district, or ditch
company, when applicable;
         b.   The Colorado Department of Transportation when the proposed
development is adjacent to or in sufficient proximity to affect a right-of-way,
interchange or other facility;
         c.   The Colorado Geological Survey for findings and recommendations
pertaining to geologic factors, including geologic hazards, mineralized areas,
and sand and gravel areas that would have a significant impact on the proposed
use of the land; and
         d.   Any other agency concerned with a matter or area of local
interest that could be affected by the application.
      (3)   Staff review and report. The City Manager shall review the
application in accordance with the criteria established in this Chapter and
shall prepare written findings of fact. If authorized as the decision-making
authority, the City Manager shall inform the applicant in writing of the
findings and determination. If not authorized as the decision-making authority,
the City Manager shall prepare a recommendation and submit the recommendation
and findings to the appropriate review and decision-making authority.
      (4)   Required processing. Applicants shall be required to continuously
and diligently pursue their development applications which shall include
responding in a timely manner to staff comments and requests. An applicant
which fails to respond to staff comments or requests for a period of three (3)
months shall be administratively withdrawn by the City Manager unless the City
Manager determines that good cause exists to extend the application time frame
and approves such extension in writing.
   (d)   Step 4: Notice. Notice shall be required for all public hearings
conducted by the Planning Commission and Board of Trustees.
      (1)   Published and posted notice. Notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the City and posted in the designated
official places of posting by the City at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing date.
      (2)   Mailed notice. For procedures that require mailed notice, notice
shall be sent by first-class mail to all real property owners within three
hundred (300) feet of the property which is the subject of a development
application, as measured from the boundary of the property. Mailed notice shall
be postmarked at least fifteen (15) days prior to the meeting. Mailed notice
shall be sent by the City at the applicant's expense. The Mineral County
Assessor's records may be used to determine the addresses of real property
owners. The City shall include a certificate of mailing in the public record.
      (3)   Notice content. Every required form of notice shall state the time
and place of the hearing, the name of the applicant, a general description of
the subject property indicating its location (which shall be shown by map), a
brief summary of the subject matter of the hearing, a description of the
proposed development, a statement that the application or information relating
to the proposed change or amendment is available in the City Manager's office
during regular business hours for review or inspection by the public and a
statement that written comments may be submitted to the City. All required
notices shall be approved by the City Manager prior to posting or distributing.
      (4)   Constructive notice. Minor defects in any notice shall not impair
the notice or invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice if a bona fide
attempt has been made to comply with applicable notice requirements. Minor
defects in notice shall be limited to errors in a legal description or
typographical or grammatical errors that do not impede communication of the
notice to affected parties. In all cases, however, the requirements for the
timing of the notice and for specifying the time, date and place of a hearing
shall be strictly construed. Any person who appears at a public hearing is
deemed to have received constructive notice and waived any grounds to challenge
defective notice. If a question arises at the hearing regarding the adequacy of
notice, the reviewing or decision-making body shall make a formal finding as to
whether there was substantial compliance with the notice requirements of this
Code. When the records of the City document the publication, mailing, and
posting of notices as required by this Section, it shall be presumed that
notice was given as required by this Section. If the reviewing or decision-
making body takes action to continue a hearing to a future specified date, time
and location, then constructive notice is deemed to have been provided for such
continued hearing date and additional notices shall not be required.
   (e)   Step 5: Public hearings. The City Manager shall schedule a public
hearing date before the PZC and/or Board of Trustees after a complete
application has been received, City staff has completed City staff review and
referral agencies have had an opportunity to provide comments. The City Manager
may delay the scheduling of a public hearing to a subsequent meeting where an
agenda of the PZC or Board of Trustees is full. A complete application shall be
scheduled for an initial public hearing within seventy-five (75) days after the
date that the application is determined to be complete unless the applicant
consents to scheduling the public hearing on a later date. The PZC or Board of
Trustees may continue a public hearing on its own initiative for a maximum of
thirty-five (35) days after the date of the initial public hearing without the
consent of the applicant. PZC or Board of Trustees may continue a public
hearing for a maximum of ninety-five (95) days with the consent of the
applicant. To the extent practical, the City shall strive to combine public
hearings and noticing requirements.
   (f)   Step 6: Review and decision. The following rules shall apply to
review, recommendations and decisions conducted at public hearings.
      (1)   Review criteria. The reviewing authority shall be the City Manager
when the City Manager has the authority to administratively approve a
development application. The reviewing authority shall be the PZC and/or the
Board of Trustees for all development applications which are subject to public
hearing. The reviewing authority shall review development applications for
compliance with all relevant standards and criteria as set forth in the
specific procedures for the particular application in this Development Code as
well as the following general criteria which shall apply to all development
applications:
         a.   The development application is complete;
         b.   The development application provides sufficient information to
allow the reviewing authority to determine that the development application
complies with the relevant review criteria;
         c.   The development application complies with the goals and policies
of the Creede Comprehensive Plan; and
         d.   The demand for public services or infrastructure exceeding
current capacity is mitigated by the development application.
      (2)   Authority to require additional studies. If the reviewing authority
finds that the submittal materials are not adequate to evaluate the development
against the review criteria, it may require additional studies as necessary. In
doing so, the reviewing authority shall indicate the specific consequence(s) or
concern(s) for which the standard submittal requirements fail to provide
adequate means of evaluation and the data or information needed for proper
evaluation. The results of any study or analysis shall not dictate either
approval or disapproval of the proposed project.
      (3)   Findings. The reviewing authority shall adopt written findings
which document that a recommendation or decision is based upon a determination
of whether the development application complies with the applicable review
criteria. The written findings shall state the conditions or mitigation.
      (4)   Conditions. The reviewing authority may recommend approval, or may
approve, a development application with conditions where such conditions are
deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the applicable review criteria and
the purpose and intent of this Development Code. Conditions shall be in written
form and attached to the approved plan, plat or permit. Conditions may include
specific time limits for performance of any condition. Conditions may include
financial performance guarantees from the applicant where the condition
requires improvements for mitigation, where deemed necessary to public health,
safety, or welfare, or where deemed necessary to protect adjacent property or
public infrastructure. Financial performance guarantees shall be in the form of
an agreement which is acceptable to the City and shall be executed by the
applicant.
      (5)   Final decision. A decision by the City Manager or the BOT shall
become final unless a written appeal is timely submitted to the City in
accordance with §
9-3-130, Appeal. The date of the decision shall be the date that the reviewing
authority renders a decision. The City shall mail the written findings and
notification of decision to the applicant within five (5) working days of the
decision of the reviewing authority. The Board of Trustees reserves the
authority to render a final decision on all decisions rendered under this
Development Code and only a decision of the Board of Trustees may be subject to
legal challenge. The failure to timely submit a written appeal of a decision of
the City Manager or the BOT shall be deemed to be a waiver of any right to
legally challenge such decision.
   (g)   Minor amendment. The applicant may apply to the City Manager for minor
amendments to an approved development application. Minor amendments to an
approved development application may be approved, approved with conditions or
denied administratively by the City Manager. The City Manager is authorized to
approve minor amendments only if the development approval, as so amended,
complies with the standards of the Development Code. The City Manager may refer
a minor amendment to the decision-making body that was responsible for the
original approval if the City Manager determines the amendment may result in a
material change to the approved development application. Proposed amendments to
an approved development application which are determined by the City Manager to
not be a minor amendment shall be reviewed and processed in the same manner as
would be required under this Development Code for the original application for
which the amendment is sought and shall include full application fees. Minor
amendments shall consist of any of the following:
      (1)   Any change to any permit or other form of approval that was
originally subject only to administrative review and was approved by the City
Manager, provided such change would not have disqualified the original
application from administrative review under this Development Code had it been
requested at that time; and provided that the minor amendment does not result
in an increase of more than ten percent (10%) in the amount of square footage
of a land use or structure and does not result in a change in the types of uses
in the project.
      (2)   Correction of any errors caused by mistakes that do not materially
alter the substance of the development plan or plat as represented to the Board
of Trustees.
      (3)   A change to an approved design which results in a five percent (5%)
or less increase to lot coverage; access and parking configurations which are
less than ten (10) feet; alterations to the landscaping plan or drainage plan
which substantially comply with the original approval; and, as are all
determined by the City Manager.
      (4)   Changes to an approved development application which do not result
in:
         a.   An increase in the approved number of dwelling units;
         b.   An increase in the amount of square footage of a non-residential
land use
         c.   A change in the housing mix or use mix ratio; or
         d.   A change in the character of the development.
   (h)   Termination of approval. All development approvals shall expire and
become void one (1) year after the date of the approval if a building permit
has not been issued prior to the expiration date, except when a different
duration is specified in the development approval, a different duration is
specified in the specific procedures for the development approval or a request
for extension is approved by the reviewing authority which granted the original
development approval. The owner shall submit a written request for an extension
to the City Manager prior to the expiration date and shall state the reasons
and circumstances for such extension request. The City Manager and/or the PZC
may provide one (1) extension for a maximum of one (1) year. The Board of
Trustees may provide multiple extensions and may provide extensions greater
than one (1) year.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-30.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment.
   This Section sets forth procedures for reviewing proposed amendments to the
texts and maps of the Creede Comprehensive Plan. The amendment process is
established in order to provide flexibility in response to changing
circumstances, to reflect changes in public policy and to advance the general
welfare of the City.
   (a)   Review procedures. Applications to amend the Creede Comprehensive Plan
shall follow the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications to amend the
Comprehensive Plan may be initiated by the Board of Trustees, any registered
voter of the City of Creede or any property owner in the City of Creede.
   (b)   Review authority. The PZC shall review applications for amendments to
the Creede Comprehensive Plan and shall provide a recommendation to the Board
of Trustees after conducting a public hearing. The Board of Trustees shall
render the final decision on an application to amend the Creede Comprehensive
Plan after conducting a public hearing. Amendments to the Creede Comprehensive
Plan shall be approved by ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
   (c)   Review criteria. The PZC and Board of Trustees shall use the following
review criteria as the basis for recommendations and decisions on applications
to amend the Creede Comprehensive Development Plan:
      (1)   The surrounding area is compatible with the land use proposed in
the plan amendment or the proposed land use provides an essential public
benefit and other locations are not feasible or practical;
      (2)   Transportation services and infrastructure have adequate current
capacity, or planned capacity, to serve potential traffic demands of the land
use proposed in the plan amendment;
      (3)   Public services and facilities have adequate current capacity, or
planned capacity, to serve the land use proposed in the plan amendment;
      (4)   The proposed land use in the plan amendment will result in a better
location or form of development for the City, even if the current plan
designation is still considered appropriate;
      (5)   Strict adherence to the current plan would result in a situation
neither intended nor in keeping with other key elements and policies of the
plan;
      (6)   The proposed plan amendment will promote the purposes stated in
this Development Code; and
      (7)   The proposed plan amendment will promote the health, safety or
welfare of the Creede Community and will be consistent with the general goals
and policies of the Creede Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-40.   Code text amendment.
   The Board of Trustees may amend the text of the Development Code, including
the adoption, modification, or replacement of appendices to the Development
Code, pursuant to this Section. The purpose of a code text amendment is to
address changed conditions, unintended consequences or changes in public
policy, to advance the general welfare of the City.
   (a)   Review procedures. Applications to amend the text of the Development
Code shall follow the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications to amend the text of
the Development Code may be initiated by the Board of Trustees, any property
owner within the City of Creede, or any registered elector within the City of
Creede.
   (b)   Review authority. The PZC shall review applications to amend the text
of the Development Code and shall provide a recommendation to the Board of
Trustees after conducting a public hearing. The Board of Trustees shall render
the final decision on an application to amend the text of the Development Code
after conducting a public hearing. Amendments to the text of the Development
Code shall be approved by ordinance of the Board of Trustees.
   (c)   Review criteria. The PZC and Board of Trustees shall use the following
review criteria as the basis for recommendations and decisions on applications
to amend the text of the Development Code:
      (1)   The text amendment promotes the health, safety and general welfare
of the Creede Community;
      (2)   The text amendment promotes or implements the goals and policies of
the Creede Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   The text amendment promotes or implements the purposes stated in
this Development Code; or
      (4)   The text amendment is necessary or desirable to respond to changed
conditions, new planning concepts, or other social or economic conditions.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-50.   Zoning amendments.
   The boundaries of any zone district may be changed, or the zone
classification of any parcel of land may be changed, pursuant to this Section.
The purpose is not to relieve particular hardships, nor to confer special
privileges or rights on any person, but only to make adjustments to the
Official Zoning Map that are necessary in light of changed conditions or
changes in public policy or that are necessary to advance the general welfare
of the City.
   (a)   Review procedures. Applications for a zoning amendment shall follow
the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for zoning amendments
may be initiated by the Board of Trustees or the property owner and may not be
initiated by any other person.
   (b)   Review authority. The PZC shall review applications for zoning
amendments and shall provide a recommendation to the Board of Trustees after
conducting a public hearing. The Board of Trustees shall render the final
decision on an application for zoning amendment after conducting a public
hearing. Zoning amendments shall be approved by ordinance of the Board of
Trustees.
   (c)   Review criteria. The PZC and Board of Trustees shall use the following
review criteria as the basis for recommendations and decisions on applications
for zoning amendment:
      (1)   Evidence of substantial compliance with the purpose of the
Development Code;
      (2)   Consistency with the Creede Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Physical suitability of the land for the proposed development or
subdivision;
      (4)   Compatibility with surrounding land uses;
      (5)   Whether the proposed rezoning is justified by changed or changing
conditions in the character of the area proposed to be rezoned;
      (6)   Whether there are adequate facilities available to serve
development for the type and scope suggested by the proposed zone compared to
the existing zoning, while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing
development;
      (7)   Whether the rezoning is consistent with the stated purpose of the
proposed zoning district(s);
      (8)   That, compared to the existing zoning the rezoning is not likely to
result in adverse impacts upon the natural environment, including air, water,
noise, storm water management, wildlife, and vegetation or such impacts will be
substantially mitigated;
      (9)   That, compared to the existing zoning, the rezoning is not likely
to result in significant adverse impacts upon other property in the vicinity of
the subject tract;
      (10)   For rezoning within an existing PUD, consistency with the relevant
PUD Master Plan as reflected in the approval of the applicable PUD; and
      (11)   Adequate mitigation is required for zoning amendment applications
which result in greater intensity of land use or increased demands on public
facilities and infrastructure.
   (d)   Mitigation. Zoning amendment applications which propose a greater
intensity of land use or increased demands on public services or infrastructure
shall be required to provide adequate mitigation of such impacts. Greater
intensity of land use or increased demands on public facilities and
infrastructure shall include, but are not limited to: transportation, water,
sewer, schools, emergency services, police, parks and recreation, medical and
library. Adequate mitigation may include providing dedications of land or cash-
in-lieu for the proportionate share of capital investment in public facilities
and infrastructure related to the potential incremental increase of demand
created from the existing zoning classification to the proposed zoning
classification.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-60.   Planned unit development (PUD).
   (a)   Intent. This Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is enacted
pursuant to the Planned Unit Development Act of 1972 as amended (C.R.S. 24-67-
101, et seq.). The PUD is intended to be used as an overlay zone district that
supplements the underlying standard zone district. The intent and purpose of
this district is to permit and encourage innovative design and high quality,
master-planned developments on large parcels of land. This district is created
to allow and encourage compatible uses to be developed in accordance with a
unified development plan in harmony with the environment and surrounding
neighborhood. The PUD District is intended to permit greater flexibility in the
application of zoning and development standards and greater freedom in
providing a mix of land uses in the development of a balanced community. PUDs
are expected to preserve critical environmental resources, provide above-
average open space and recreational amenities, include exceptional design, and
provide greater efficiency in the layout and provision of roads, utilities and
other infrastructure.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted in the PUD District shall be those uses
permitted in the underlying standard zone district for the property. An
applicant for a PUD District may request modifications to the permitted uses of
the underlying zone district to remove those uses that may be deemed
incompatible or inappropriate for the overall PUD development. Conditional uses
may be permitted if it can be demonstrated that such uses meet the conditional
use review criteria for the underlying zone district(s).
   (c)   PUD restrictions and general requirements. Properties utilizing the
PUD District shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no minimum lot, parcel or tract size for PUD
applications.
      (2)   The area of land for the PUD may be controlled by one or more
landowners and must be developed under unified control or a unified plan of
development.
      (3)   Areas designated as private streets and/or common open space
including land, an area of water, or a combination of land and water within the
site designated for a PUD which are designed and intended primarily for the use
or enjoyment of residents, occupants and owners of the PUD shall include
provisions for the establishment of an organization for the ownership and
maintenance of such private streets and/or common open space areas unless other
adequate arrangements for the ownership and maintenance thereof are provided in
a manner acceptable to the City.
      (4)   All requirements set forth in this Code otherwise applicable to the
area of land proposed for a PUD shall govern, except to the extent that the
unified plan of development for residential, commercial, educational,
recreational or industrial uses or any combination thereof may propose
exceptions in lot size, bulk, type of use, density, lot coverage, open space or
other standards within the existing land use regulations.
      (5)   No PUD may be approved by the City without the written consent of
the landowner whose property is included within the PUD.
   (d)   PUD approval procedure. All PUD District applications shall be
submitted and processed in the same manner as applications for zoning
amendments as set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Where deemed appropriate, the City
may elect to require a PUD District application to also submit a subdivision
plat concurrently with a PUD District application and shall process such
subdivision plat in accordance with submittal requirements, procedures and
standards for review set forth in §
9-3-70 Subdivisions. To the extent practical, the City shall strive to combine
public hearings and noticing requirements for both a PUD District application
and accompanying subdivision plat application.
   (e)   Approval by ordinance. PUD Zoning and a PUD Plan shall be approved by
ordinance.
   (f)   Application submittal requirements. In addition to information
required for zoning amendments in §
9-3-50, a PUD District application shall include the following:
      (1)   A PUD District application fee.
      (2)   A PUD Plan which depicts various land use areas on the property.
      (3)   PUD Zoning, including permitted, conditional and prohibited uses,
building and site standards, minimum lot sizes and other applicable zoning
regulations for various land use areas as depicted in the PUD Plan.
      (4)   A draft of all documents relevant to the PUD, including but not
limited to proposed Development Agreements, Intergovernmental Agreements,
Declarations for Common Owner's Associations.
      (5)   Written PUD description as part of the general development
information which includes:
         a.   List all subdivision regulation exceptions proposed for the PUD;
         b.   Identify the underlying zoning district(s) for the property and
describe any proposed modifications and/or restrictions to the allowed uses
and/or standards within the district(s). If any conditional uses are requested,
explain how the conditional use review criteria will be addressed;
         c.   Identify and explain the benefits which will be provided by the
PUD to offset the impact of the modifications requested (i.e., if the minimum
lot size is decreased, additional functional, centrally located common open
space will be provided; or if the width of the local street right-of-way is
decreased by eliminating on-street parking, then there will be designated
parking areas with 500 feet of all residences, etc.). All proposed benefits
must offset the proposed modifications;
         d.   Explain how the proposed PUD will be compatible with adjacent
neighborhoods which now exist or are proposed in the future. Describe any
proposed buffering techniques which serve to achieve such compatibility;
         e.   Explain how the PUD supports and implements the Creede
Comprehensive Plan;
         f.   Explain any proposed phasing of the PUD;
         g.   Explain the process to amend the PUD Zoning or PUD Plan if
different than then the Code; and
         h.   Provide any additional relevant information which the City may
deem necessary.
   (g)   PUD review criteria. The following review procedures shall be used
when considering a PUD District application:
      (1)   The PUD addresses a unique situation, confers a substantial benefit
to the City, or incorporates creative site design such that it achieves the
purposes of this Code and represents an improvement in quality over what could
have been accomplished through strict application of the otherwise applicable
district or development standards. Such improvements in quality may include,
but are not limited to: improvements in open space provision and access;
environmental protection; tree/vegetation preservation; efficient provision of
streets, roads, and other utilities and services; or increased choice of living
and housing environments.
      (2)   The PUD rezoning will promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the Creede community;
      (3)   The PUD rezoning is consistent with the Creede Comprehensive Plan
and the purposes of this Development Code;
      (4)   Facilities and services (including roads and transportation, water,
gas, electric, police and fire protection, and sewage and waste disposal, as
applicable) will be available to serve the subject property while maintaining
adequate levels of service to existing development;
      (5)   The PUD rezoning is not likely to result in significant adverse
impacts upon the natural environment, including air, water, noise, storm water
management, wildlife, and vegetation or such impacts will be substantially
mitigated;
      (6)   The PUD rezoning is not likely to result in significant adverse
impacts upon other property in the vicinity of the subject tract; and
      (7)   Future uses on the subject tract will be compatible in scale with
uses on other properties in the vicinity of the subject tract.
   (h)   Amendments to a PUD development plan or PUD zoning. Amendments to a
PUD Development Plan shall follow the process for initial zoning of a PUD
District and approval of a PUD Development Plan and PUD Zoning unless otherwise
set forth in an approved PUD Development Plan or PUD Zoning. Written notice of
a public hearing for an amendment to a PUD Development Plan or PUD Zoning shall
be sent to all property owners within the PUD District area. Unless restricted
by the terms of a development agreement granting vested property rights, any
property owner within the PUD District or the Board of Trustees of the City of
Creede may initiate an amendment to a PUD Development Plan or PUD Zoning.
   (i)   Rezoning PUD districts. A PUD District, or portions thereof, may be
rezoned to another zone district or districts in accordance with the procedures
and standards for zoning amendments set forth in this Code. Written notice of a
public hearing for rezoning a PUD District shall be sent to all property owners
within the PUD District area. Unless restricted by the terms of a development
agreement granting vested property rights, any property owner within the PUD
District or the Board of Trustees of the City of Creede may initiate an
application to rezone a PUD District.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-70.   Subdivisions.
   The purpose of the subdivision review procedures is to ensure compliance
with all the standards and requirements in this Development Code, and encourage
quality development consistent with the goals, policies and objectives in the
Creede Comprehensive Plan.
   (a)   Applicability. The procedures of this Section shall apply to all
subdivisions or re-subdivisions that result in the portioning, dividing,
combining, or altering of any lot, parcel, or tract of land, including land
used for condominiums, apartments, or any other multiple dwelling units or
creation of an estate in airspace, except any subdivisions that are
specifically excluded by state law. If a tract of land that has been created or
subdivided in the past is later described as a single tract in deeds or plat by
the legal or equitable owners, any later subdivisions of that tract, even if
along the lines of the earlier subdivision, shall be subject to the
requirements of these regulations. If any tract of land has been subdivided as
one type of subdivision and thereafter is subdivided so as to create a
different type of subdivision (for example, conversion of a condominium
subdivision to a timesharing subdivision), the conversion shall be subject to
the requirements of this Development Code. Unless the method of disposition is
adopted for the purpose of evading the requirements of the Development Code,
this procedure shall not apply to any division of land that:
      (1)   Is created by a lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any other security
instrument;
      (2)   Is created by any interest in an investment entity;
      (3)   Creates cemetery lots;
      (4)   Creates an interest or interests in oil, gas, minerals, or water
that are severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      (5)   Is created by the acquisition of an interest in land in the name of
a husband and wife or other persons in joint tenancy or as tenants in common of
such interest. For the purpose of this Subsection, any interest in common owned
in joint tenancy shall be considered a single interest; or
      (6)   Creates a leasehold interest with a term of less than twenty (20)
years and involves no change in use or degree of use of the leasehold estate.
   (b)   Subdivision categories. Categories of subdivisions are established and
defined as follows for the purpose of determining the appropriate subdivision
review procedure:
      (1)   Major subdivision. Major subdivisions include all subdivisions
which would create four (4) or more separate parcels of land or which would
require or which propose public improvements.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions. Minor subdivisions include all subdivisions
which would create less than four (4) separate parcels of land, subdivisions
which do not require or propose public improvements, subdivisions which
consolidate two (2) or more lots into a single lot in a previously recorded
subdivision plat, and subdivisions which move any lot lines by more than two
(2) feet; but shall not include subdivisions which are administrative
subdivisions. Condominium and timeshare subdivisions more than four (4) units
which do not propose public improvements shall be processed as minor
subdivisions.
      (3)   Administrative subdivisions. Administrative subdivisions are
subdivisions which include dividing a parcel of land for a duplex, subdivisions
for the purpose of correcting survey errors, condominium and timeshare
subdivisions up to four (4) units, and subdivisions which adjust lot lines by
two (2) feet or less and which do not change the number of lots. The City
Manager shall have the authority to determine that an administrative
subdivision application shall be processed as a minor subdivision where the
character of the subdivision application, or multiple applications, presents
issues which warrant review and approval by the Board of Trustees. All
administrative subdivisions are exempt from notice requirements outlined in §
9-3-20(d).
   (c)   Review procedures. Applications for a subdivision shall follow the
general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for subdivision must
be initiated by the owner of real property. The City Manager may combine
preliminary plan and final plat review where the subdivision application can be
reviewed efficiently and effectively with a combined process. Where subdivision
approval will be required to implement development in a proposed PUD, the
applicant shall file a single preliminary plan incorporating the application
requirements of both the PUD and subdivision preliminary plans. The provisions
and procedures for public notice, hearing, and review for a PUD as prescribed
in the Development Code shall apply to the application.
   (d)   Review authority. The review authority for a subdivision application
shall be determined by the subdivision category.
      (1)   Major subdivision. Major subdivisions shall be required to obtain
approval for preliminary plan and for final plat. The PZC shall review a
preliminary plan for a major subdivision application and shall provide a
recommendation to the Board of Trustees after conducting a public hearing. The
Board of Trustees shall render the final decision on a preliminary plan for a
major subdivision application after conducting a public hearing. The Board of
Trustees shall review the final plat for major subdivision applications and
render a final decision after conducting a public hearing. The preliminary plan
and final plat for major subdivisions shall be approved by resolution of the
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Minor subdivision. Minor subdivisions shall require final plat
review and approval only where no public improvements are proposed; however,
the review criteria for a preliminary plan shall apply to review of minor
subdivision final plats in addition to the review criteria for a final plat.
The Board of Trustees shall render the final decision on a minor subdivision
application after conducting a public hearing. Minor subdivisions shall be
approved by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Administrative subdivisions. Administrative subdivisions shall
require final plat review and approval only; however, the review criteria for a
preliminary plan shall apply to review of administrative subdivisions in
addition to the review criteria for a final plat. The City Manager shall review
and render decisions on administrative subdivisions. A decision of the City
Manager may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to §
9-3-130, Appeal.
   (e)   Preliminary plan review criteria. The reviewing authority will use the
following review criteria as the basis for recommendations and decisions on
applications for preliminary plat subdivision applications:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall comply with all applicable use,
density and development standards set forth in this Development Code that have
not otherwise been modified or waived pursuant to this Article and that would
affect or influence the layout of lots, blocks, and streets. Applicants shall
not create lots or patterns of lots in the subdivision that will make
compliance with such development and design standards difficult or infeasible;
      (2)   The subdivision application shall comply with the purposes of the
Development Code;
      (3)   The subdivision application shall be consistent with the Creede
Comprehensive Plan and other community planning documents;
      (4)   The land shall be physically suitable for the proposed development
or subdivision;
      (5)   The proposed subdivision shall be compatible with surrounding land
uses;
      (6)   Conveyance of water rights: In order to provide a continuing source
of municipal water for the City of Creede, all subdivisions may be required to
transfer water rights or provide a fee in lieu thereof;
      (7)   There are adequate public facilities for potable water supply,
sewage disposal, solid waste disposal, electrical supply, fire protection and
roads and will be conveniently located in relation to schools, police, fire
protection and emergency medical services;
      (8)   The proposed utility and road extensions are consistent with the
utility's service plan and are consistent with the City of Creede Comprehensive
Plan;
      (9)   The utility lines are sized to serve the ultimate population of the
service area to avoid future land disruption to upgrade under-sized lines;
      (10)   The subdivision is compatible with the character of existing land
uses in the area and shall not adversely affect the future development of the
surrounding area;
      (11)   A proposed subdivision for an existing PUD shall be consistent
with the relevant PUD Master Plan as reflected in the approval of that PUD;
      (12)   Appropriate utilities, including water, sewer, electric, gas and
telephone utilities, shall provide a "conditional capacity to serve" letter for
the proposed subdivision;
      (13)   That the general layout of lots, roads, driveways, utilities,
drainage facilities, and other services within the proposed subdivision shall
be designed in a way that minimizes the amount of land disturbance, minimize
inefficiencies in the development of services, maximizes the amount of open
space in the development, preserves existing trees/vegetation and riparian
areas, protects critical wildlife habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the
purposes of this Development Code;
      (14)   Evidence that provision has been made for a public sewage disposal
system or, if other methods of sewage disposal are proposed, adequate evidence
that such system shall comply with state and local laws and regulations;
      (15)   Evidence that all areas of the proposed subdivision that may
involve soil or topographical conditions presenting hazards or requiring
special precautions have been identified by the applicant and that the proposed
use of these areas are compatible with such conditions or that adequate
mitigation is proposed;
      (16)   The subdivision application addresses the responsibility for
maintaining all roads, open spaces, and other public and common facilities in
the subdivision and that City can afford any proposed responsibilities to be
assumed by the City;
      (17)   If applicable, the declarations and owners' association are
established in accordance with the law and are structured to provide adequate
assurance that any site design standards required by this Development Code or
conditions of approval for the proposed subdivision will be maintained or
performed in a manner which is enforceable by the City; and
      (18)   As applicable, the proposed phasing for development of the
subdivision is rational in terms of available infrastructure capacity and
financing.
   (f)   Final plat review criteria. After approval of a preliminary plan, the
applicant may submit an application for a final plat. The following criteria
shall apply to review of a final plat subdivision application:
      (1)   The City Manager and/or Land Use Administrator shall compare the
legal description of the subject property with the County records to determine
that:
         a.   The property described contains all contiguous single ownership
and does not create a new or remaining unrecognized parcel;
         b.   The lots and parcels have descriptions that both close and
contain the area indicated; and
         c.   The plat is correct in accordance with surveying and platting
standards of the state.
      (2)   The final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plan and
incorporates all recommended changes, modifications and conditions attached to
the approval of the preliminary plan;
      (3)   The final plat conforms to all preliminary plan criteria;
      (4)   The development will substantially comply with all sections of the
Development Code;
      (5)   The final plat complies with all applicable technical standards
adopted by the City; and
      (6)   Appropriate utilities shall provide an ability to serve letter
including, but not limited to, water, sewer, electric, gas, and
telecommunication facilities.
   (g)   Public improvements guarantee. Guarantees for public improvements
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   No final plat shall be approved or recorded until the applicant has
submitted, and the PZC and the Board of Trustees have approved, a Subdivision
Improvements Agreement (SIA) guaranteeing the construction of improvements
shown in the final plat documents, which have not previously been completed and
approved by the City. Such agreement shall set forth a method and a time
schedule for construction of said improvements. The SIA shall run with and be a
burden upon the land described in the agreement.
      (2)   The SIA shall contain a security arrangement approved by the City,
which reasonably guarantees that the required improvements shall be completed.
The guarantee may take the form of a performance bond or an irrevocable letter
of credit. Such security arrangement shall provide that the City may cause the
improvements to be completed if not completed pursuant to the timetable
specified in the SIA. The cost of completion then will be paid pursuant to the
security arrangement. The amount of security posted shall not limit the
liability of the applicant to pay for the full cost of completion of the
improvements.
      (3)   The security shall not be released until the City has inspected the
improvements and accepted them as completed in accordance with the SIA and the
warranty period has expired. The agreement shall require letters or receipts
from all utility companies stating the required installations have been
completed and paid for before the security is released.
      (4)   The applicant shall be responsible to correct and repair any defect
in any improvements due to materials or workmanship which appears for a period
of two (2) years from the date of approval of completion.
   (h)   Revocation. An approval of a final plat is revoked pursuant to this
Section.
      (1)   Recording. The City shall cause the final plat and restrictive
covenants, if any, to be recorded within ninety (90) days from the date of
approval and acceptance of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Vacation. The final plat approval shall include a determination of
a reasonable time by which the project should be completed. All plats given
final approval shall contain a notation indicating the date by which a project
is expected to be completed, that shall be prima facie evidence of a reasonable
time by which the project should have been completed. A plat or any portion
thereof that has been finally approved by the Board of Trustees and has been
recorded shall be subject to vacation proceedings if the project that is the
subject of the subdivision is not completed within the time set by the Board of
Trustees.
      (3)   Extension. Extensions of the time limit for project completion may
be obtained from the Board of Trustees for good cause shown, upon request by
the applicant or owner of the tract, if made before vacation proceedings are
instituted.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-80.   Special review use.
   (a)    Purpose. This Section provides a discretionary approval process for
special review uses, that have unique or widely varying operating
characteristics or unusual site development features. The procedure encourages
public review and evaluation of a use's operating characteristics and site
development features and is intended to ensure that proposed use(s) will not
have a significant adverse impact on surrounding uses or on the community at
large.
   (b)   Applicability. A special review use (SRU) permit is required for any
use allowed by special review as outlined in Table 9-4-170, Permitted Uses.
   (c)   Review procedures. Applications for a special review use shall follow
the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for special review
use may be initiated by the owner of property for which a special review use is
desired.
   (d)   Review authority. The PZC shall review and render a recommendation to
the Board of Trustees on an application for a special review use after
conducting a public hearing.
   (e)   Review criteria. The PZC shall use the following review criteria as
the basis for a recommendation on an application for a special review use:
      (1)   The proposed use is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and all
applicable provisions of this Development Code and applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (2)   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
zoning district in which it is located and any applicable use-specific
standards in the Development Code;
      (3)   The proposed use is compatible with adjacent uses in terms of
scale, site design and operating characteristics;
      (4)   Any significant adverse impacts (including, but not limited to,
hours of operation, traffic generation, lighting, noise, odor, dust, and other
external impacts) anticipated to result from the use will be mitigated or
offset to the maximum extent practicable;
      (5)   Facilities and services (including sewage and waste disposal,
water, gas, electricity, police and fire protection, and roads and
transportation, as applicable) will be available to serve the subject property
while maintaining adequate levels of service for existing development; and
      (6)   Adequate assurances of continuing maintenance have been provided.
   (f)   Expiration and preliminary review. SRU approvals may state a time
frame for duration in the approval ordinance. If a time frame is stated then at
least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration, the holder of the SRU approval
may apply for a review hearing before the PZC. The PZC shall review the use
against the criteria in §
9-3-80(e) to determine whether the special review use will be allowed to
continue. A SRU approval expires pursuant to this Section.
      (1)   Developments and uses granted by a special review use permit shall
be developed or established in accordance with an approved development schedule
or within two (2) years of the date of approval if no development schedule is
established. Failure to develop or establish such development or uses in
accordance with the time period approved on the permit shall result in the
expiration of the permit.
      (2)   If an approved use ceases operation for any reason for a period of
one year, the special review use permit shall be deemed expired. If the
conditions of a permit become the responsibility of a person or entity other
than the applicant, the City Manager shall be notified in writing, identifying
the new person or entity responsible for maintaining the conditions of the
approval/permit. Until such notice is received, the applicant shall remain
responsible. Such notice shall be attached to the permit on file at the City.
      (3)   If conditions of approval are not maintained, it shall be
considered a violation of this Development Code and subject to revocation
proceedings.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-90.   Variance.
   In order to prevent or to lessen such practical difficulties and unnecessary
physical hardships inconsistent with the objectives of the Development Code as
would result from strict or literal interpretation and enforcement, variances
from certain regulations may be granted. A practical difficulty or unnecessary
physical hardship may result from the size, shape, or dimensions of a site or
the location of existing structures thereon; from topographic or physical
conditions on the site or in the immediate vicinity; or from other physical
limitations, street locations or traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity.
Cost or inconvenience to the applicant of strict or literal compliance with a
regulation shall not be a reason for granting a variance. It is not the intent
of this Section to allow variances in the classification of uses of property.
   (a)   Review procedures. Applications for a variance shall follow the
general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for variance may be
initiated by the owner of property for which a variance is desired.
   (b)   Review authority. The Board of Adjustment shall review and render a
decision on an application for a variance after conducting a public hearing.
The decision of the Board of Adjustment may be appealed to Board of Trustees
pursuant to §
9-3-130, Appeal.
   (c)   Review criteria. The Board of Adjustment shall use the following
review criteria as the basis for a decision on an application for a variance:
      (1)   The degree to which relief from the strict or literal
interpretation and enforcements of a specified regulation is necessary to
achieve compatibility and uniformity of treatment among sites in the vicinity,
or to attain the objectives of the Development Code without grant of special
privilege;
      (2)   The effect of the requested variance on light and air, distribution
of population, transportation and traffic facilities, public facilities and
utilities and public safety; and
      (3)   Such other factors and criteria related to the subject property,
proposed development, or variance request as the decision-making body deems
applicable to the proposed variance.
   (d)   Required findings. The Board of Adjustment shall make the following
written findings before granting a variance:
      (1)   That the granting of the variance will not constitute a grant of
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties
classified in the same district;
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   That the variance is warranted for one or more of the following
reasons:
         a.   The strict, literal interpretation and enforcement of the
specified regulation would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
physical hardship inconsistent with the objectives of the Development Code;
         b.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the site of the variance that do not apply generally
to other properties in the same zone; or
         c.   The strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the
specified regulation would deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the
owners of other properties in the same zone district;
   (e)   Conditions. A variance granted by the Board of Adjustment may contain
limitations as to time or disposition or use of the tract in question in order
to ensure that the stated purpose of the variance request is realized.
   (f)   Action notice. The City Manager shall notify the applicant for a
variance in writing of the Board of Adjustment's action within five (5) days
after a decision has been rendered.
   (g)   Expiration. The variance approval expires if a building permit is not
obtained within one (1) year of the approval.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-100.   Right-of-way vacation.
   The purpose of this Section is to provide procedures and standards for the
vacation of right-of-ways in the City of Creede. The procedures and authority
set forth in C.R.S. §43-2-301 et. seq. shall apply unless in conflict with any
specific provision set forth in this §
9-3-100, Right-of-Way Vacation. The vacation of public easements are also
considered right-of-ways in this Section.
   (a)   Definitions incorporated. The definitions set forth in C.R.S. §43-2-
301 are incorporated in this §
9-3-100, Right-of-Way Vacation.
   (b)   Review procedures. Applications for the vacation of a right-of-way
shall follow the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for vacation of a
right-of-way may be initiated by the Board of Trustees or by a property owner
abutting the right-of-way proposed for vacation. Applications to move or alter
a right-of-way shall be processed as a subdivision application concurrently
with a right-of-way vacation application, in which case the ordinance approving
the vacation of a right-of-way, or portion thereof, shall also approve a final
plat which results in the dedication of the moved or altered right-of-way or
portion thereof. Public easement vacations can be processed as part of a major
or minor subdivision application.
   (c)   Review authority. The Board of Trustees shall review and render the
final decision on an application to vacate a right-of-way after conducting a
public hearing. Vacation of a right-of-way shall be approved by ordinance of
the Board of Trustees.
   (d)   Review criteria. The Board of Trustees shall use the following review
criteria as the basis for a decision on an application to vacate a right-of-
way:
      (1)   No right-of-way shall be vacated so as to leave any land adjoining
the vacated right-of-way without an established public road or private-access
easement connecting said land with another established public road;
      (2)   The right-of-way is determined to be platted on terrain which is
not practical for the construction of a right-of-way due to terrain,
topography, natural features or other constraints, and the right-of-way does
not provide any other potential benefit to the public, including but not
limited to utility connections, pedestrian or recreation connections, drainage
or public landscaping;
      (3)   Sufficient easements for utilities, access or other purposes are
retained;
      (4)   Compensation shall be required for the area of vacated right-of-way
based upon the fair market value per square foot of the area vacated and the
applied zoning. For the purposes of this provision, fair market value shall be
determined by an independent appraisal by a duly licensed professional
appraiser; and
      (5)   The vacated area of right-of-way shall be included in the same zone
district as the abutting property to which the vacated right-of-way vests.
   (e)   Recording, deed. The ordinance vacating a right-of-way shall be
recorded in the office of the Mineral County Clerk and Recorder. The ordinance
shall authorize the Mayor or other designee to execute a quit claim deed on
behalf of the City of Creede which quit claim deed shall reference any
exceptions, easements or reservations of the vacation and shall be recorded in
the Office of the Mineral County Clerk and Recorder.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016; Ord. 426 § 1, 2021)
Sec. 9-3-110.   Vested property right.
   The purpose of this Section is to provide procedures necessary to implement
the provisions of Article 68 of Title 24, C.R.S., as amended.
   (a)   As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   Community planning document means the City of Creede Comprehensive
Plan, any other planning documents adopted by the City of Creede through a
public hearing process, and any planning document adopted by other governmental
and quasi-governmental entities that provide public services or facilities to
the City of Creede or which include the City of Creede within their service or
planning boundaries.
      (2)   Site specific development plan means a planned unit development
plan, or any amendment thereto, approved pursuant to §
9-3-60, Planned Unit Developments, of this Code, together with a development
agreement approved pursuant to §
9-3-130 hereof. A site specific development plan that creates vested property
rights may also include other development approvals if approved at the
discretion of the Board of Trustees upon request by a property owner; however,
such request shall not result in an application for a development approval
other than a planned unit development plan to be treated as a site specific
development plan for the purposes of C.R.S. §24-68-102.5(1).
      (3)   Vested property right means the right to undertake and complete the
development and use of property under the express terms and conditions of a
site specific development plan.
   (b)   Vested property right created.
      (1)   A vested property right shall be deemed to have been created only
upon the approval of a site specific development plan in accordance with this
Article.
      (2)   A vested property right shall only be created if approved by
ordinance which may be combined with an ordinance approving a site specific
development plan and an accompanying development agreement. Amendments to any
site specific development plan shall be subject to this Article and shall have
a new vested property right as determined by the Board of Trustees. Any
approval of a site specific development plan, or amendment to an existing site
specific development plan, that creates vested property rights shall be adopted
by ordinance as a legislative act and shall be subject to referendum. When
creating a vested property right, the Board of Trustees may expressly exempt,
in whole or in part, administrative amendments to site specific development
plans from additional review and approval by Board of Trustees under this
Article.
      (3)   The establishment of a vested property right shall not preclude the
application of ordinances or regulations which are general in nature and which
are applicable to all properties or a similarly situated class of properties
subject to land use regulation by the City, including but not limited to the
regulations contained in Chapter 18 of this Code, regulations concerning
subdivision improvements and right-of-way dedications, and regulations
establishing requirements and specifications for any public infrastructure or
public facility improvements. Ordinances or regulations which are general in
nature and which are applicable to all properties or a similarly situated class
of properties subject to land use regulation by the City shall not be deemed to
alter, impair, prevent, diminish, impose a moratorium on development, or
otherwise delay the development or use of a property with vested property
rights regardless of the financial impact of such ordinance or regulation.
      (4)   The establishment of a vested property right shall not preclude the
application of any legislatively adopted fees which are general in nature,
uniform in character and applicable to all properties or a similarly situated
class of properties.
   (c)   Notice and hearing. No site specific development plan shall be
approved until after providing notice and conducting public hearings in
compliance with §
9-3-20(d).
   (d)   Notice of approval.
      (1)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document constituting a site
specific development plan shall contain the following language: "Approval of
this plan constitutes a vested property right pursuant to Article 68 of Title
24, C.R.S., as amended, and
Chapter 9, Article 3 of the Creede Municipal Code as amended."
      (2)   The failure of the document constituting a site specific
development plan to contain the language specified in Subsection (d)(1) above
may invalidate the creation of the vested property right in accordance with
Article 68 of Title 24, Colorado Revised Statutes, and
Chapter 9, Article 3 of the Creede Municipal Code, including the duration of
the vested property right; and
   (e)   Duration of vested right.
      (1)   A property right vested pursuant to this Article after shall remain
vested for a period of three (3) years. The Board of Trustees may approve a
period of vested property rights exceeding three (3) years by approval of a
development agreement, which shall be part of the site specific development
plan.
      (2)   The guidelines in this §
9-3-130(e)(2) shall be considered when determining whether to grant vested
property rights for a period greater than three (3) years, provided that site
specific development plans that are granted vested property rights for a period
greater than three (3) years because of the size, phasing, or absorption rate
of such site specific development plan should have separate vesting created for
the various phases of the development, as set forth in §
9-3-130(e)(4). It shall be the burden of the applicant to propose appropriate
reasons for granting a vested property right that is greater than three (3)
years. [Absorption rate is the rate that real estate is sold].
         a.   The size and phasing of the development, specifically, but not
limited to, whether the development can be reasonably completed within the
vested rights period;
         b.   Economic cycles, and specifically but not limited to resort
community economic cycles, regional and state economic cycles and national
economic cycles;
         c.   Market conditions, and specifically but not limited to absorption
rates for leasing and sales of similar development projects;
         d.   Compliance with the concepts of the City of Creede Comprehensive
Plan and other community planning documents;
         e.   Proposed public amenities and benefits that enhance the project
and the overall attractiveness of the Creede community, including the degree to
which such public amenities and benefits are defined in terms of design, time
frame, and phasing with development;
         f.   Projected public financial benefits or costs estimated to be
caused by the development project, including the time frame for realization by
the City or other public entities and potential costs for operation and
maintenance of any new public amenities or infrastructure dedicated to the City
or other public entities;
         g.   The breadth and scope of the requested vested property right,
including but not limited to the extent to which such vested property right
restricts the City's ability to apply future legislatively adopted fees and
regulations for the purpose of providing public infrastructure, public services
and public facilities and for the purpose of meeting evolving community needs;
         h.   The terms of any existing site specific development plans with
development agreements for the applicant's property that specify the duration
of vested property rights;
         i.   Any proposed modifications to previously approved vested property
rights to address changed conditions within the Creede community, compliance
with the Comprehensive Plan and other community planning documents, or
performance of previously approved site specific development plans; and
         j.   Any other factors deemed relevant by Board of Trustees when
determining to grant a vested property right for a period greater than three
(3) years.
      (3)   The City may approve a site specific development plan subject to
such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the Creede community.
      (4)   Any site specific development plan for a multiple-phase development
approved after may have separate vesting created for each phase. The vesting
for any subsequent phase may be contingent upon completion of the preceding
phase and review by the Board of Trustees. Such review shall include but not be
limited to whether the landowner, developer, successors or assigns are in
compliance with its obligations to the City, including but not limited to the
terms and conditions of a site specific development plan, a development
agreement and any other agreements between the landowner, developer, successor
and assigns and the City, as they may have been amended from time to time.
   (f)   Extension of vested property rights. A landowner may request an
extension of vested property rights by submitting an application for extension
of vested property rights at least six (6) months prior to the expiration of
the vested property rights. No application for extension of a vested property
right shall be approved until after providing notice and conducting public
hearings in compliance with §
9-3-20(d). The guidelines in §
9-3-130(e)(2) shall be considered when determining whether to grant an
extension to a vested property right. An extension of a vested property right
shall be approved by ordinance. The notice of approval provisions in §
9-3-130(d)(1) above shall apply to any approval for extension of vested
property rights.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-120.   Forfeiture of vested property rights.
   (a)   Failure to abide by the terms and conditions of a vested property
right will result in a forfeiture of the vested property rights in accordance
with the procedures set forth herein.
   (b)   The process to consider forfeiture of vested property rights shall be
initiated by passage of a resolution by the Board of Trustees stating the
grounds therefore.
   (c)   No vested property right shall be deemed forfeited until after
providing notice and conducting a public hearing. Notice shall be provided by
publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation, posting notice in the
designated official places of posting, and mailing notice to the property owner
sent to the address of record according to the County Assessor's records via
first class United States mail at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of a
hearing. A copy of the resolution initiating the process to consider forfeiture
of the vested property right shall be included with the mailed notice to the
property owner.
   (d)   At the hearing, the Board of Trustees shall consider all evidence and
testimony presented concerning any failure to abide by the terms and conditions
of a vested property right. The Board of Trustees may continue the public
hearing to allow additional evidence to be gathered and presented.
   (e)   If Board of Trustees finds a failure to abide by the terms and
conditions of the vested property right, the Board of Trustees may take action
by ordinance to declare the vested property rights forfeited. The forfeiture of
a vested property right shall have no effect upon public streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, or other lands or easements previously dedicated or conveyed to
the City or other public entities pursuant to the terms of a site specific
development plan. Upon forfeiture of vested property rights, the site specific
development plan shall be subject to all zoning, land use, and general
regulations in effect at the time of forfeiture and as such may be amended from
time to time thereafter.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-130.   Location, character and extent.
   This Section implements and sets forth procedures for the regulation of the
location, character and extent of public facilities as provided by C.R.S., §31-
23-209, Legal Status of Official Plan, as amended. It is the intent of this
Section to conform to the provisions of C.R.S. §31-23-209, to define the
factors to be considered in the "Location, Character and Extent" process, and
to prescribe procedures for the orderly consideration of Location, Character
and Extent applications in order to effectuate the purposes of the state
statute.
   (a)   Applicability. No road, park, public way, ground, or space, no public
building or structure, and no major facility of a public utility shall be
constructed or authorized, and no building permit for the same shall be issued,
in the City unless and until the proposed location, character and extent
thereof has been submitted to and approved by the City. Routine extensions of
public utility lines and minor modifications to existing facilities shall not
be subject to this procedure.
   (b)   Review procedures. Applications for location, character and extent
shall follow the general review procedures set forth in §
9-3-20, General Procedures and Requirements. Applications for location,
character and extent may be initiated by the owner or the governmental body
having jurisdiction over the public facility. Applications for location,
character and extent may be combined with other applications procedures and
submittal requirements, including but not limited to development plan, design
review and subdivision. The failure of the PZC and the Board of Trustees to act
within sixty (60) days from and after the date of official submission of a
complete application to the City shall be deemed approval of such application.
   (c)   Review authority. The PZC shall review applications for location,
character and extent after conducting a public hearing. The PZC may approve,
approve with conditions or deny an application for location, character and
extent. In case of disapproval or approval with conditions which are not
acceptable to the applicant, the PZC shall communicate its reasons to the Board
of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall review such decision of the PZC as
soon as practical after conducting a public hearing and shall have the power to
overrule or modify such decision by a majority vote. The public hearing by the
Board of Trustees shall require posted notice no less than thirty (30) days
prior to the hearing. If the public way, ground space, building, structure, or
utility is one the authorization or financing of which does not, under the law
or charter provisions governing the same, fall within the province of the
municipal governing body, the submission to the PZC shall be by the
governmental body having jurisdiction. The decision by the Board of Trustees to
disapprove, or approve with conditions which are not acceptable to the
governmental body having jurisdiction, may be overruled by said governmental
body by a vote of not less than two-thirds of its membership.
   (d)   Review criteria. The PZC and the Board of Trustees shall use the
following review criteria as the basis for recommendations and decisions on
applications for location, character and extent:
      (1)   Evidence of substantial compliance with the purpose of the
Development Code;
      (2)   Consistency with the Creede Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Physical suitability of the land for the public way, place,
structure, facility or utility;
      (4)   Compatibility with surrounding land uses; and
      (5)   Adequate mitigation of adverse impact on nearby properties or
neighborhoods, including by not limited to traffic, noise, odors, vibrations,
and property values.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-3-140.   Appeal.
   This Section sets forth the procedures to appeal a decision of the City
Manager which is made pursuant to this Development Code. Only a final decision
of the City Manager may be appealed. Recommendations to a decision making
authority are not subject to appeal.
   (a)   Appeal procedures. An appeal may be submitted by an applicant for a
development approval, a party in interest that has received notice of the
development application or a member of the Board of Adjustments. The appellant
must provide a written request for appeal of a decision of the City Manager to
the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days after the date of the decision. The
Board of Adjustment shall conduct a public hearing within forty-five (45) days
of receipt of a written request for appeal. Written notice of the public
hearing date, time and location shall be mailed to the appellant via first
class United States mail at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.
   (b)   Review authority. The Board of Adjustment shall review appeals of
decisions of the City Manager after conducting a public hearing. The Board of
Adjustment shall render the final decision on an appeal.
   (c)   Review criteria. The Board of Adjustment shall use the applicable
review criteria to the decision that is appealed. Board of Adjustment shall
review decisions de novo.
   (d)   Decision. The Board of Adjustments shall, in writing, confirm, modify
or reverse the decision within thirty-five (35) days of holding the public
hearing on the appeal. Any decision by the Board of Adjustments that results in
action modifying or reversing the decision of a City body or officer shall
describe the specific reasons for the modification or reversal. Action of the
Board of Adjustments shall become final immediately. Failure of the Board of
Adjustments to act within the forty (40) additional days shall be deemed action
confirming the decision unless the applicant consents to an additional time
extension. A final decision of the Board of Adjustments may be challenged in
district court in accordance with Rule 106(a)(4), Colorado Rules of Civil
Procedure, provided that such appeal is filed no later than thirty (30) days
after the date of the final decision.
   (e)   Board of Adjustments decision final. A decision of the Board of
Adjustments is final. An aggrieved person may appeal a decision of the Board of
Adjustments to the district court or to another state or federal court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 4
Zone Districts and Official Zoning Map
Sec. 9-4-10.   Purpose.
   This Chapter establishes the zoning districts and contains basic information
pertaining to the districts, including statements of purpose and dimensional
standards and identifies the uses allowed within the districts.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-20.   District established.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the City is hereby divided into districts,
as follows:
   (a)   R-1: Residential District, Single-Family;
   (b)   R-2: Residential District, Two- Family and Multi-Family;
   (c)   B-1: Downtown Business District;
   (d)   B-2: Highway Mixed Use District;
   (e)   MH: Mobile Home Park District;
   (f)   C: Commercial District;
   (g)   I: Industrial District; and
   (h)   O: Open District.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-30.   Official zoning map.
   (a)   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established in §
9-4-20, Districts Established, are set forth on the zoning district map of the
City. The City of Creede Zoning Map, along with all of the notations,
references and other information shown on the map, is incorporated in and made
part of this Title.
   (b)   If changes are made in district boundaries or other items portrayed on
the official zoning district map in accordance with the procedures established
in this Code, the changes shall be entered on the map.
   (c)   The official map shall be located in the office of the City Manager
and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land,
buildings and other structures in the City.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-40.   Zoning map interpretation.
   When there is any uncertainty, contradiction or conflict about the intended
location of any zoning district boundary on the zoning map, the City Manager
shall provide an interpretation of the map or refers the request to the PZC.
The City Manager and PZC, in interpreting the map or deciding any appeal, shall
apply the following standards:
   (a)   The zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines,
subdivision lines, incorporation lines or centerlines of rights-of-way.
   (b)   Where zoning district boundary lines approximately follow lot lines,
subdivision lines, or incorporation lines, such lines shall be construed to be
the boundary lines.
   (c)   Where the zone district cannot be determined from the map, it shall be
determined from the Creede Comprehensive Plan and surrounding properties,
subject to rezoning according to the provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-50.   Residential districts general purposes.
   The residential zoning districts are intended to:
   (a)   Provide appropriately located areas for residential development that
are consistent with the Creede Comprehensive Plan and with the public health,
safety, and general welfare;
   (b)   Ensure adequate light, air and privacy for all dwelling units;
   (c)   Protect the scale and character of existing residential neighborhoods
and the community;
   (d)   Discourage any use that would generate traffic or create congestion on
neighborhood streets other than the normal traffic that serves the residents of
the district; and
   (e)   Discourage any use that, because of its character or size, would
create additional requirements and costs for public services that are in excess
of such requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for the
intended type of residential uses.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-60.   Residential District, Single-Family (R-1).
   (a)   Intention. This is a low-density housing district intended primarily
for single-family uses on individual lots.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
1 District:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses;
      (2)   Accessory dwelling when associated with a permitted use;
      (3)   Group homes for up to eight (8) developmentally disabled persons,
handicapped individuals, children or senior citizens;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Parks and open space; and
      (6)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (c)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the R-1 District
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Child care centers;
      (2)   Community facilities;
      (3)   Place of worship and assembly;
      (4)   Golf courses and or golf driving range;
      (5)   Limited outdoor recreation facilities;
      (6)   Public and private schools for elementary, intermediate and high
school education; and
      (7)   Public facilities, provided offices, repair, storage facilities are
not included.
R-1 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
R-1 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                              Requirements
Minimum lot area per dwelling                                  5,000 square
                                                               feet
Minimum lot width                                              50 feet per
                                                               dwelling
Minimum lot frontage                                           40 feet
Minimum front yard setback                                      
   Principal building                                       15 feet
   Front-loaded garage (measured from the back of sidewalk) 22 feet
   Accessory building
                                                               55 feet
Minimum side yard setback                                      5 feet
Minimum distance between buildings                             10 feet
Minimum rear yard setback                                       
   Principal building                                       20 feet
   Garage with its entrance facing an alley                 5 feet
   Accessory buildings or structures
                                                               5 feet
Minimum floor area per dwelling unit                           850 square feet
Maximum building height                                        35 feet
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-70.   Residential District, Two-Family and Multi-Family (R-2).
   (a)   Intention. This is a high-density residential zone intended primarily
for multi-family uses on individual lots. In order to facilitate appropriate
higher densities near viable business centers, multi-family buildings are
generally encouraged near a neighborhood commercial center. Street and open
space designs in these areas shall be used to create compatibility among
frontages, which encourage pedestrian interaction and discourage high
automobile speeds. Multi-family residential developments shall be designed
around or adjacent to open space.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
2 District:
      (1)   All permitted principal uses in the R-1 district;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings (no more than twenty-four (24) units per
building), provided that the density and dimensional standards for the R-
2 Residential District are met (refer to §
9-4-70 for details) and the lot upon which any such dwelling is located is of
sufficient size so that twenty (20%) percent thereof shall be devoted to
functional open space; and
      (4)   Senior housing provided that the density and dimensional standards
for the R-2 Residential District are met (refer to §
9-4-70 for details) and the lot upon which any such dwelling is located is of
sufficient size so that twenty (20%) percent thereof shall be devoted to
functional open space. Senior housing is exempted from the maximum number of
twenty-four (24) units per building requirement for multi-family dwellings.
   (c)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the R-2 District
are as follows:
      (1)   All permitted conditional uses in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Bed and breakfasts;
      (3)   Boarding and rooming houses; and
      (4)   Long-term care facilities.
R-2 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
R-2 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                              Requirements
Minimum lot area per dwelling                                  1,500 square
                                                               feet
Minimum lot width                                              20 feet per
                                                               dwelling
                                                               18 feet for
                                                               townhomes
Minimum lot frontage                                           35 feet for
                                                               apartments and
                                                               condominiums
Minimum front yard setback                                      
   Principal building                                       15 feet
   Front-loaded garage (measured from the back of sidewalk) 22 feet
   Accessory building
                                                               45 feet
Minimum side yard setback                                      8 feet
Minimum distance between buildings                             Subject to
                                                               building code
Minimum rear yard setback                                       
   Principal building                                       20 feet
   Garage with its entrance facing an alley                 5 feet
   Accessory buildings or structures
                                                               5 feet
Minimum floor area per dwelling unit                           400 square feet
Maximum building height                                        35 feet
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-80.   Downtown Business District (B-1).
   (a)   Intention. The Downtown District is intended to reflect the character
of the original downtown and to provide for a mixture of uses that will
strengthen and expand the core community.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the B-
1 District:
      (1)   Residential uses. All permitted principal uses in the R-
2 residential district except single-family residential and accessory dwelling.
      (2)   Institutional/civic/public uses:
         a.   Church or place of worship and assembly;
         b.   Parks and open space;
         c.   Public facilities with or without business offices, with no
repair or storage facilities; and
         d.   Public and private schools, including colleges, vocational
training and technical training.
      (3)   Commercial/retail uses:
         a.   Artisan and photography studios and galleries;
         b.   Bed and breakfasts;
         c.   Boarding and rooming houses;
         d.   Child care centers;
         e.   Convenience shopping and retail establishments without fuel
sales;
         f.   Health and membership clubs;
         g.   Limited indoor recreation facilities;
         h.   Lodging establishments;
         i.   Medical and dental offices and clinics;
         j.   Mixed use dwelling units;
         k.   Open air farmers' market;
         l.   Personal and business service shops;
         m.   Professional offices and financial services;
         n.   Restaurants - standard and fast food without drive-through
facilities;
         o.   Small grocery store; and
         p.   Tourist facilities.
   (c)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the B-1 District
shall be as follows:
      (1)   All permitted conditional uses in the R-1 and R-2 districts.
      (2)   Residential uses. Single-family residential and accessory dwelling
when associated with a principal use.
      (3)   Institutional/civic/public uses:
         a.   Community facilities; and
         b.   Public facilities with business offices and repair and storage
facilities.
      (4)   Commercial/retail uses:
         a.   Bars and taverns;
         b.   Car wash;
         c.   Clubs and lodges;
         d.   Entertainment facilities and theaters;
         e.   Gasoline stations;
         f.   Limited outdoor recreation facilities;
         g.   Long-term care facilities;
         h.   Motor vehicle service and repair; and
         i.   Parking lots and parking garages as a principal use.
      (5)   Industrial uses. Workshops and custom small industry uses.
B-1 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
B-1 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                            Requirements
Minimum front yard setback                                   0 feet
Maximum side yard setback                                    0 feet
Minimum rear yard setback                                    0 feet
Maximum floor area ratio (ratio of total floor area to total 2:1
lot area)
Maximum net density                                          --
Maximum building height                                      40 feet
Maximum ground level footprint                               5,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-90.   Highway Mixed Use District (B-2).
   (a)   Intention. The Highway Mixed Use District is intended to be a setting
for development of a wide range of community and regional retail uses, offices
and personal and business services. Secondarily, it can accommodate a wide
range of other uses including multi-family housing and mixed use dwelling
units. The B-2 District is intended to integrate various commercial and multi-
family uses while transitioning from the highway to adjacent lower density
neighborhoods. While some Highway Mixed Use Commercial District areas may
continue to meet the need for auto-related and other auto-oriented uses, it is
the City's intent that the B-2 District emphasizes safe and convenient personal
mobility in many forms, with planning and design that accommodates pedestrians.
Further, the B-2 District is intended to function with, rather than compete
with, the downtown area. The highway corridor is a visible commercial area for
the community.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the B-
2 District:
      (1)   Accessory/miscellaneous uses:
         a.   Accessory buildings; and
         b.   Accessory uses.
      (2)   Residential uses:
         a.   Group homes; and
         b.   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (3)   Institutional/civic/public uses:
         a.   Church or place of worship and assembly;
         b.   Parks and open space;
         c.   Public facilities, with or without business offices or repair and
storage facilities; and
         d.   Transit facilities without repair or storage.
      (4)   Commercial/retail uses:
         a.   Artisan and photography studios and galleries;
         b.   Bed and breakfasts;
         c.   Boarding and rooming houses;
         d.   Car wash;
         e.   Child care centers;
         f.   Convenience retail stores with or without fuel sales;
         g.   Equipment rental establishments (without outdoor storage);
         h.   Food catering;
         i.   Funeral homes;
         j.   Gasoline stations;
         k.   Health and membership clubs;
         l.   Limited indoor recreation facilities;
         m.   Lodging establishments;
         n.   Long-term care facilities;
         o.   Medical and dental offices and clinics;
         p.   Mixed use dwelling units;
         q.   Motor vehicle service and repair (minor repairs);
         r.   Open-air farmers' markets;
         s.   Licensed personal care and business service shops;
         t.   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
         u.   Print shops;
         v.   Professional offices and financial services;
         w.   Restaurants, with or without drive-through facilities;
         x.   Large retail establishments;
         y.   Small grocery stores;
         z.   Supermarkets;
         aa.   Tourist facilities; and
         bb.   Veterinary facilities, small animal clinics; and
         cc.   Mobile food vendors, provided that:
            1.   An application for a permit to operate is submitted to and
approved by the Town Clerk. Said application shall include, at a minimum, all
relevant owner information as determined by the Town Clerk, a valid Colorado
tax ID and copies of any/all required licenses to operate, including all health
department certificates;
            2.   The number of mobile food vendors per parcel does not exceed
one (1);
            3.   No generators of any type are utilized;
            4.   The proposed mobile food vending unit remains fully
registered, insured and mobile for the duration of the permit period; and
            5.   All operations occur entirely on private property and in
accordance with all other applicable regulations and standards set forth within
the City of Creede Municipal Code.
      (5)   Industrial uses. Workshop and custom small industry uses.
   (c)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the B-2 District
include the following:
      (1)   Residential uses:
         a.   Single-family dwellings; and
         b.   Two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Institutional/civic/public uses:
         a.   Community facilities;
         b.   Golf courses and/or golf driving ranges;
         c.   Public and private schools; and
         d.   Public facilities with business offices and repair and storage
facilities.
      (3)   Commercial/retail uses:
         a.   Auto, RV, boat and truck sales. This use shall be limited to ten
(10%) percent of the total linear frontage along highway within the City
limits;
         b.   Auto, RV, boat and truck storage. This use shall be limited to
ten (10%) percent of the total linear frontage along highway within the City
limits;
         c.   Bars and taverns;
         d.   Clubs and lodges;
         e.   Entertainment facilities and theaters;
         f.   Equipment, truck and trailer rental establishments;
         g.   Hospitals;
         h.   Limited outdoor recreation facility;
         i.   Motor vehicle service and repair (major repairs);
         j.   Nightclubs;
         k.   Parking lots and parking garages;
         l.   RV parks;
         m.   Retail and supply yard establishments with outdoor storage; and
         n.   Veterinary hospitals.
      (4)   Industrial uses:
         a.   Enclosed mini-storage facilities; and
         b.   Research, experimental or testing laboratories.
B-2 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
B-2 ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                            Requirements
Minimum front yard setback                                   15 feet
Maximum side yard setback                                    --
Minimum rear yard setback                                    15 feet
Maximum floor area ratio (ratio of total floor area to total 1:1
lot area)
Maximum net density                                          --
Maximum building height                                      35 feet
Maximum ground level footprint                               5,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016; Ord. 436 §1, 2022)
Sec. 9-4-100.   Mobile Home Park District (MH).
   (a)   Intention. This is a high density residential district on a parcel of
land under single ownership or control on which two (2) or more mobile homes
are occupied as residences.
   (b)   General requirements. Requirements applicable to MH Districts include
the following: The minimum number of acres which may constitute a MH district
shall be one (1) acres.
   (c)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the MH
District:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses;
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   Mobile homes;
      (4)   Parks and open space; and
      (5)   Public facilities, provided business offices and repair and storage
facilities are not included.
MH ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
MH ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                              Requirements
Minimum lot area per dwelling                                  4,000 square
                                                               feet
Minimum lot width                                              50 feet per
                                                               dwelling
Minimum lot frontage                                           40 feet
Minimum front yard setback                                      
   Principal building                                       15 feet
   Front-loaded garage (measured from the back of sidewalk) 15 feet
   Accessory building
                                                               40 feet
Minimum side yard setback                                      10 feet
Minimum distance between buildings                             20 feet
Minimum rear yard setback                                       
   Principal building                                       10 or 20 feet
   Garage with its entrance facing an alley                 5 feet
   Accessory buildings or structures
                                                               5 feet
Minimum floor area per dwelling unit                           850 square feet
Maximum building height                                        35 feet
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-110.   Commercial District (C).
   (a)   Intention. This is a commercial district intended to provide for the
location of auto-oriented and auto-dependent uses and/or uses which provide a
wide range of general retail goods and services for residents of the entire
community, as well as businesses and highway users, primarily inside of
enclosed structures. The intent of these provisions is to facilitate convenient
auto and pedestrian access, minimize traffic congestion and give consideration
to site and architectural aesthetics. Locations for this zone require good
access to major arterial streets and adequate water, sewer and power.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the C
District:
      (1)   All permitted principal uses in the B-2 District;
      (2)   Bars and taverns;
      (3)   Clubs and lodges; and
      (4)   Entertainment facilities and theaters.
   (c)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the C District
are as follows:
      (1)   All permitted conditional uses in the B-2 District;
      (2)   Public/private schools for elementary, intermediate and high school
education;
      (3)   RV parks;
      (4)   Small animal boarding (kennels); and
      (5)   Warehouse, distribution and wholesale uses.
C ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
C ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                                Requirements
Minimum front yard setback                                       15 feet
Maximum side yard setback                                        --
Minimum rear yard setback                                        15 feet
Maximum floor area ratio (ratio of total floor area to total lot 1:1
area)
Maximum net density                                              --
Maximum building height                                          40 feet
Maximum ground level footprint                                   --
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-120.   Industrial District (I).
   (a)   Intention. This zoning district is intended to provide locations for a
variety of workplaces and employment opportunities, including light industrial
uses, research and development offices and institutions, manufacturing,
warehousing and distributing, indoor and outdoor storage and a wide range of
commercial and industrial operations. This district is also intended to
accommodate secondary uses that complement and support the primary workplace
uses, such as hotels, restaurants, convenience shopping, child care and
housing. Locations for this zone require good access to major arterial streets
and adequate water, sewer and power. Additionally, this district is intended to
encourage the development of planned office and business parks; to promote
excellence in the design and construction of buildings, outdoor spaces,
transportation facilities and streetscapes.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the I
District:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses;
      (2)   Auto, RV, boat and truck storage;
      (3)   Car wash;
      (4)   Enclosed mini-storage facilities;
      (5)   Equipment rental establishments without outdoor storage;
      (6)   Gasoline stations;
      (7)   Manufacturing and preparing food products;
      (8)   Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products from previously
prepared materials;
      (9)   Manufacturing of electric or electronic instruments and devices;
      (10)   Motor vehicle service and repair establishments (minor and major
repairs);
      (11)   Parking lots and parking garages (as principal use);
      (12)   Parks and open space;
      (13)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses;
      (14)   Plumbing, electrical and carpenter shops;
      (15)   Public facilities with or without business offices and repair and
storage facilities;
      (16)   Research, experimental or testing laboratories;
      (17)   Retail and supply yard establishments with outdoor storage;
      (18)   Veterinary facilities, large animal clinics;
      (19)   Warehouse, distribution and wholesale uses; and
      (20)   Workshops and custom small industry uses.
   (d)   Limitations. Any use in this district shall conform to the following
requirements:
      (1)   All manufacturing and similar uses shall be carried on entirely
within a completely enclosed structure;
      (2)   Dust, fumes, odors, smoke, vapor and noise shall be confined to the
site and be controlled in accordance with the state air pollution laws;
      (3)   Outdoor storage, equipment and refuse areas shall be concealed from
view from abutting rights-of-way and from adjoining residential districts;
      (4)   Travel and parking portions of the lot shall be surfaced with
asphalt, concrete, compressed gravel or equivalent, maintainable surfacing with
erosion control; and
      (5)   Light fixtures in parking areas shall be hooded and mounted not
more than twenty-five (25) feet above the ground level and oriented in such a
manner as not to shine into residential areas.
   (e)   Special review uses. Permitted special review uses in the I District
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Accessory dwelling when associated with a permitted use;
      (2)   Adult uses including product sales and entertainment;
      (3)   Artisan and photography studios and galleries;
      (4)   Automobile, recreational vehicle, boat and truck sales;
      (5)   Bars and taverns;
      (6)   Child care centers;
      (7)   Convenience shopping and retail establishments;
      (8)   Dry cleaning plants;
      (9)   Entertainment facilities and theaters;
      (10)   Equipment, truck, trailer rental establishments with outdoor
storage;
      (11)   Golf courses and/or golf driving ranges;
      (12)   Group homes;
      (13)   Limited outdoor recreation facilities;
      (14)   Lodging establishments;
      (15)   Night clubs;
      (16)   Open-air farmers' markets;
      (17)   Personal and business service shops;
      (18)   Recycling facilities;
      (19)   Resource extraction, processes and sales establishments;
      (20)   Restaurants with drive-through;
      (21)   Sales and leasing of farm implements, heavy equipment sales,
mobile/manufactured homes and heavy excavation equipment;
      (22)   Small animal boarding (kennels);
      (23)   Small grocery stores;
      (24)   Wireless telecommunications facilities (as permitted in §
9-3-130(e) below); and
      (25)   Veterinary hospitals.
   (e)   Zoning and use of wireless telecommunication services, facilities and
equipment.
      (1)   Use permitted by special review. Wireless telecommunication
services facilities shall be permitted only in the industrial zoning district
(I) as a special review use. It is unlawful for any person to install or
operate such a wireless telecommunication services facility unless it has first
been approved by the Board of Trustees as a special review use pursuant to this
Section. The approval of such special review use does not relieve the operator
from otherwise complying with all applicable regulatory requirements of the
City, state and federal governments.
      (2)   Height and setback requirements. The following apply to any
wireless telecommunication services, facilities or equipment:
         a.   Roof or building-mounted commercial mobile radio service
facilities may protrude no more than five (5) feet above the parapet line of
the building or structure, nor more than two and one-half (2%) feet outside of
the building wall unless sufficient screening methods are demonstrated and
accepted as part of the approval;
         b.   Roof or building-mounted whip antenna(s) of no more than three
(3) inches in diameter, in groupings of five (5) or less, may extend up to
twelve (12) feet above the parapet wall; and
         c.   Applicable zoning setback requirements of this Article must be
met. At a minimum, all freestanding facilities shall be set back at least three
hundred (300) feet from all residentially zoned properties or residential
structures on properties otherwise zoned.
      (3)   Accessory buildings requirements.
         a.   Accessory buildings located on the ground shall be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet and must be constructed of durable, low
maintenance materials, architecturally compatible and integrated with existing
buildings and structures. Sites with greater than one hundred (100) cubic feet
of cabinet area, visible from a public right-of-way or residentially zoned or
used area, must enclose the equipment in accessory buildings.
         b.   Accessory buildings and facilities are to be screened, to the
extent possible, from public streets and sidewalks, either by screening,
landscaping, location or other techniques deemed sufficient.
      (4)   Building or roof-mounted facilities requirements. Building or roof-
mounted facilities are to be screened from public view, either by screening,
location or other techniques deemed sufficient.
      (5)   Freestanding wireless telecommunications facilities requirements.
All freestanding wireless telecommunications facilities shall be designed and
constructed in such a manner that they are:
         a.   Capable of serving, through original construction, expansion or
replacement, a minimum of two (2) users;
         b.   Constructed as a monopole, which tapers toward the top of the
pole to the degree allowed by structural requirements, unless some other
decorative type of structure is proposed and approved;
         c.   Of a neutral color, including fencing, buildings and cabinets or
to match existing buildings;
         d.   Hold only lighting required by the Federal Aviation
Administration; and no signage;
         e.   No higher than fifty (50) feet from the ground, with an
additional twenty (20) feet per co-locating user permitted, up to seventy (70)
feet. Exceptions may be granted upon request by the applicant; and
         f.   Constructed in accordance with a certified engineer's
specifications and in compliance with all applicable I.B.C. provisions.
I ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
I ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                                Requirements
Minimum front yard setback                                       25 feet
Maximum side yard setback                                        --
Minimum rear yard setback                                        20 feet
Maximum floor area ratio (ratio of total floor area to total lot 1:1
area)
Maximum net density                                              --
Maximum building height                                          50 feet
Maximum ground level footprint                                   --
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-130.   Open District (O).
   (a)   Intention. The purpose of this district is to preserve existing open
areas without structures where topography, including slopes steeper than 20%
grade, and other factors, such as known geologic hazards and flood-prone areas,
are prevalent.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the O
District: Parks and open space.
   (c)   Special review use. Permitted special review uses in the O District
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Limited outdoor recreation facilities; and
      (3)   Public facilities without business offices and repair and storage
facilities.
O ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation Requirements
O ZONING STANDARDS
Design Regulation                                                Requirements
Minimum front yard setback                                       --
Maximum side yard setback                                        --
Minimum rear yard setback                                        --
Maximum floor area ratio (ratio of total floor area to total lot --
area)
Maximum net density                                              --
Maximum building height                                          --
Maximum ground level footprint                                   --
 
   (d)   Planned unit development. All PUD zone districts shall comply with the
dimensional and development standards as well as the review processes and
criteria outlined in §
9-3-60, Planned Unit Developments.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-140.   Table of permitted uses.
   Table 9-4-170 lists the uses allowed within all base zoning districts. Most
uses are defined in Article 8, Definitions, for those uses that are undefined,
§
9-4-180, Classification of New and Unlisted Uses, shall serve as the process to
define such term. Approval of a use listed in Table 9-4-170 and compliance with
the applicable use-specific standards for that use authorizes that use only.
Development or use of a property for any other use not specifically allowed in
Table 9-4-170 and approved under the appropriate process is prohibited, unless
determined by the City Manager that the proposed use is consistent with intent
of the zone district.
   (a)   Permitted by right uses. "P" in a cell indicates that the use is
permitted by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are
subject to all other applicable regulations of this Code, including the use-
specific standards in this Article.
   (b)   Special review uses. "S" in a cell indicates that, in the respective
zoning district, the use is allowed only if reviewed and approved as a special
review use in accordance with the procedures of §
9-3-80, Special Review Uses. Special review uses are subject to all other
applicable regulations of this Code.
   (c)   Prohibited uses. A blank cell indicates that the use is prohibited in
the respective zoning district.
   (d)   Use-specific standards. Regardless of whether a use is allowed by
right or permitted as a special review use, there may be additional standards
that are applicable to the use.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-150.   Table organization.
   In Table 9-4-170, land uses and activities are classified into general "use
categories" and specific "use types" based on common functional, product, or
physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type of
customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered and site
conditions. This classification provides a systematic basis for assigning
present and future land uses into appropriate zoning districts. This
classification does not list every use or activity that may appropriately exist
within each category, and specific uses may be listed in one category when they
may reasonably have been listed in one or more other categories. The use
categories are intended merely as an indexing tool and are not regulatory.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-160.   Classification of new and unlisted uses.
   The City recognizes that new types of land use will develop and forms of
land use not anticipated in this Code may seek to locate in the City. When
application is made for a use category or use type that is not specifically
listed in Table 9-4-170, the City Manager shall make a determination as to the
appropriate classification of any new or unlisted form of land use in the
following manner:
   (a)   The City Manager shall provide an interpretation as to the zoning
classification into which such use should be placed. In making such
interpretation, the City Manager shall consider the nature of the use and
whether it involves dwelling activity; sales; processing; type of product,
storage and amount, and nature thereof; enclosed or open storage; anticipated
employment; transportation requirements; the amount of noise, odor, fumes,
dust, toxic material, and vibration likely to be generated; and the general
requirements for public utilities such as water and sanitary sewer.
   (b)   Standards for new and unlisted uses may be interpreted as those of a
similar use.
   (c)   Appeal of the City Manager's decision may be made to the Board of
Adjustments following procedures under §
9-3-130, Appeals.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-170.   Table of permitted uses.
PERMITTED USES R-1 R-2 MH B-1 B-2 C I H O
PERMITTED USES                                       R-1 R-2 MH B-1 B-2 C I H O
Residential Uses
Accessory buildings and accessory uses               P   P   P  P   P   P P  *
Accessory dwelling when associated with a permitted  P   P   *  S   *   * S  *
use
Group homes                                          P   P   *  P   P   P S  *
Mobile home                                          *   *   P  *   *   * *  *
Multiple-family dwellings                            *   P   *  P   P   P *  *
Senior housing                                       *   P   *  P   *   * *  *
Single-family detached dwellings                     P   P   P  S   S   S *  *
Two-family dwellings                                 *   P   *  P   S   S *  *
Institutional/Civic/Public Uses
Cemeteries                                           *   *   *  *   *   * * * S
Churches or place of worship and assembly            S   S   *  P   P   P *  *
Community facilities                                 S   S   *  S   S   S *  *
Golf courses                                         S   S   *  S   S   * S  *
Golf driving range                                   S   S   *  S   S   * S S *
Parks and open space                                 P   P   P  P   P   P P P P
Public and private schools for elementary,           S   S   *  S   *   S *  *
intermediate and high school education
Public and private schools, including colleges,      *   *   *  P   S   S *  *
vocational training and technical training
Public facilities provided that business offices and S   S   P  P   P   P P  S
repair and storage facilities are not included
Public facilities with business offices, but without *   *   *  P   P   P P  *
repair and storage facilities
Public facilities with business office and repair    *   *   *  S   P   S P  *
and storage facilities
Transit facilities without repair or storage         *   *   *  *   P   P   *
Business/Commercial/Retail Uses
Adult uses including product sales and entertainment *   *   *  *   *   * S  *
Artisan and photography studios and galleries        *   *   *  P   S   S S  *
Auto, recreational vehicle, boat and truck sales     *   *   *  *   S   S S  *
Auto, RV, boat and truck storage                     *   *   *  *   S   S P  *
Bars and taverns                                     *   *   *  S   S   P S  *
Bed and breakfasts                                   *   S   *  P   P   P *  *
Boarding and rooming houses                          *   S   *  P   P   P *  *
Car wash                                             *   *   *  S   P   P P  *
Child care centers                                   S   S   *  P   P   P S  *
Clubs and lodges                                     *   *   *  S   S   P *  *
Convenience shopping and retail establishments       *   *   *  P   P   P S  *
Entertainment facilities and theaters                *   *   *  S   S   P S  *
Equipment, rental establishments without outdoor     *   *   *  *   P   P P  *
storage
Equipment, truck and trailer rental establishments   *   *   *  *   S   S S  *
with outdoor storage
Food catering                                        *   *   *  *   P   P *  *
Funeral homes                                        *   *   *  *   P   P *  *
Gasoline stations                                    *   *   *  S   P   P P  *
Health and membership clubs                          *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
Hospitals                                            *   *   *  *   S   S *  *
Large retail establishments                          *   *   *  *   P   P *  *
Limited indoor recreation facility                   *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
Limited outdoor recreation facility                  S   S   *  S   S   S S S S
Lodging establishments                               *   *   *  P   P   P S  *
Long-term care facilities                            *   S   *  S   P   P *  *
Medical and dental offices and clinics               *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
Mixed-use dwelling units                             *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
Motor vehicle service and repair (major repairs)     *   *   *  *   S   S P  *
Motor vehicle service and repair (minor repairs)     *   *   *  S   P   P P  *
Night clubs                                          *   *   *  *   S   S S  *
Open-air farmers' markets                            *   *   *  P   P   P S  *
Parking lots and parking garages (as a principal     *   *   *  S   S   S P  *
use)
Personal and business service                        *   *   *  P   P   P S  *
Plant nurseries and greenhouses                      *   *   *     P   P P  *
Print shops                                          *   *   *  *   P   P   *
Professional offices, financial services             *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
RV parks                                             *   *   *  *   S   S *  *
Restaurants/standard and fast food without drive-    *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
thru
Restaurants with drive-thru                          *   *   *  *   P   P S  *
Retail and supply yard with outdoor storage          *   *   *  *   S   S P  *
Sales and leasing of farm implements, heavy          *   *   *  *   *   * S  *
equipment sales and heavy excavation equipment
Small animal boarding                                *   *   *  *   *   S S  *
Small grocery stores                                 *   *   *  P   P   P S  *
Supermarkets                                         *   *   *  *   P   P *  *
Tourist facilities                                   *   *   *  P   P   P *  *
Veterinary facilities, large                         *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
Veterinary facilities, small                         *   *   *  *   P   P *  *
Veterinary hospitals                                 *   *   *  *   S   S S  *
Industrial Uses
Dry cleaning plants                                  *   *   *  *   *   * S  *
Enclosed mini-storage facilities                     *   *   *  *   S   S P  *
Manufacturing and preparation of food products       *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products     *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
from previously prepared materials
Manufacturing of electric or electronic instruments  *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
and devices
Plumbing, electrical and carpenter shops             *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
Recycling facilities                                 *   *   *  *   *   * S  *
Research, experimental or testing laboratories       *   *   *  *   S   S P  *
Resource extraction, processes and sales             *   *   *  *   *   * S S *
establishment
Sales and leasing of farm implements, heavy          *   *   *  *   *   * S  *
equipment sales, mobile/manufactured homes
Warehouse, distribution and wholesale uses           *   *   *  *   *   S P  *
Wireless telecommunications facilities               *   *   *  *   *   * P  *
Workshops and custom small industry uses             *   *   *  S   P   P P  *
 
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-180.   Use-specific regulations.
   (a)   Public uses. Where permitted in a district, public uses (as identified
in Table 9-4-170, Permitted Uses) should conform to siting and use provisions
of the Creede Comprehensive Plan.
   (b)   Arboretum or botanical garden. No sales are allowed except through
gift shops that are approved accessory uses.
   (c)   Home occupations. A home occupation must comply with the following
limitations and conditions:
      (1)   The use must not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat
or glare noticeable outside the dwelling unit where such activity is taking
place;
      (2)   If the use is a day care, the use is limited to no more children
than allowed by the state license for a childcare home (a state license is also
required to operate a childcare home);
      (3)   The use does not have visible storage of equipment or parking of
vehicles not normally associated with a residential use, including but not
limited to trucks with a rating greater than three-quarter (3/4) ton, earth-
moving equipment or cement mixers;
      (4)   The use does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the
residential character of the neighborhood;
      (5)   The use does not interfere with parking, access, other normal
activities on adjacent properties or with other units in a multi- family
development;
      (6)   The use does not require alteration to the residence to satisfy
applicable City fire or building codes or County health regulations;
      (7)   Exterior signs are not permitted; and
      (8)   There may be only incidental sale of stocks, supplies or products.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-190.   Accessory uses and structures.
   (a)   Purpose. This Section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses
that are incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses, provided
that the accessory use complies with all applicable standards in this Section.
   (b)   Approval of accessory uses and structures. All principal uses allowed
in a zoning district shall be deemed to include those accessory uses,
structures, and activities typically associated with the use, unless
specifically prohibited in this Development Code. No accessory use may be
established prior to establishment of the principal use with which such
accessory use is associated. All accessory uses shall be subject to the
standards in this §
9-4-190, Accessory Uses and Structures, as well as any use-specific standards
applicable to the associated principal use as set forth in §
9-4-180, Use-Specific Regulations, above.
   (c)   Interpretation of unidentified accessory uses and structures. The City
Manager shall evaluate applications for accessory uses that are not identified
in this Section on a case-by-case basis, based on the following standards:
      (1)   The definition of "accessory use" in Article 8, Definitions, and
the general accessory use standards and limitations established in this
Section;
      (2)   The purpose and intent of the district in which the accessory use
is located;
      (3)   Potential adverse impacts the accessory use or structure may have
on other lots, compared with other accessory uses permitted in the district;
and
      (4)   The compatibility of the accessory use with other principal and
accessory uses permitted in the district.
   (d)   General standards. All accessory uses and structures shall comply with
the following general standards:
      (1)   Compliance with this Code.
         a.   All accessory uses and structures shall be subject to the
dimensional requirements of this Article. In the case of any conflict between
the accessory use/structure standards of this Section and any other requirement
of this Development Code, the more restrictive standards shall control.
         b.   Accessory uses shall comply with all standards of this
Development Code applicable to the principal use with which they are
associated. Parking requirements shall be met for both the principal use and
any accessory use.
      (2)   Location. The accessory use or structure shall be conducted or
located on the same lot(s) as the principal use and to the rear of the front
setback line, unless otherwise approved by the City Manager. No accessory
structure shall be located within ten (10) feet of the site's principal
structure unless otherwise specified in this Section. When located to the rear
of the primary structure, accessory buildings need not comply with the side or
rear setback lines applicable to the primary structure provided that the
accessory building is not located closer than ten (10) feet from any alley and
not closer than five (5) feet from any property line.
      (3)   Size. The maximum total size of accessory buildings shall be six
hundred (600) square feet unless approved by special use permit. No accessory
building shall exceed the height of the site's principal structure.
      (4)   Same ownership required. The principal use and the accessory use
shall be under the same ownership.
      (5)   Same utility meter required. The principal use and the accessory
use shall utilize the same utility meter, with the exception of an approved
accessory dwelling unit.
   (e)   Additional standards for specific accessory uses and structures
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units. An accessory dwelling unit shall be
permitted subject to the following standards:
         a.   Districts allowed. Accessory dwelling units shall be allowed as
accessory uses to principal residential uses in the following districts: R-1,
R-2. Accessory dwelling units shall be allowed as special review uses in the
following districts: B-1 and I.
         b.   Where permitted on lot. A permitted accessory dwelling unit shall
comply with all applicable site and building design, access and other standards
for principal dwelling units in the zoning district in which the accessory
dwelling unit will be located. Accessory dwelling units may be a separate
structure from the principal structure or be attached to and part of the
principal structure. Recreational vehicles, travel trailers and any other
wheeled or transportable structure shall not be used as accessory dwelling
units.
         c.   Size of accessory dwelling unit. No accessory dwelling unit shall
exceed eight hundred fifty (850) square feet in floor area. An accessory
dwelling unit shall contain private sanitary facilities with hot and cold
running water and cooking and food storage facilities.
         d.   Limit on number. There shall be no more than one (1) accessory
dwelling unit on a lot in addition to the principal single-family dwelling.
         e.   Off-street parking. At least one (1) off-street parking space
shall be provided for each accessory dwelling unit.
      (2)   Outdoor display and sales. Outdoor display and/or sales may be
allowed as an accessory use for all commercial uses, provided that the display
of such items does not impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
create an unsafe condition. These provisions are not intended to apply to
permanent outdoor display and sales, such as vehicle sales, that must be
approved as part of the development site plan. The accessory outdoor display of
goods shall meet all of the following requirements:
         a.   Outdoor display or sale shall require approval of the City
Manager and may be subject to appropriate conditions by the City Manager to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Subsection.
         b.   Display of goods shall not be in drive aisles, loading zones or
fire lanes and shall not obstruct any entrance to the building.
         c.   The total area for display or sale of goods in the front of the
building shall be limited to an area that measures five percent (5%) of the net
square footage of the main building.
         d.   The outdoor display area may be located in a parking lot provided
that the parking available does not fall below eighty percent (80%) of the off-
site parking required for the building.
         e.   No goods shall be attached to a building's wall surface.
         f.   The outdoor display area shall take place on an improved surface
such as the sidewalk or pavement.
         g.   No outdoor displays shall be allowed in required landscape areas.
         h.   At least five (5) feet along the parking lot side of the display
shall be maintained free of obstruction to allow for pedestrian and handicap
movement, such that handicapped pedestrians and others do not have to enter the
parking lot or drive aisle to walk around the display.
      (3)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage is a permitted accessory use in
the I zone district with approval of an SRU pursuant to §
9-3-80, Special Review Use. In other zone districts, outdoor storage is
permitted through the site plan review process and subject to compliance with
the following requirements:
         a.   Except for outdoor storage associated with industrial or
agricultural uses, each outdoor storage area shall be incorporated into the
overall design of the primary structure on the site and shall be located at the
rear of the primary structure.
         b.   Each outdoor storage area shall be screened from view from all
property lines and adjacent rights-of-way by an opaque fence or wall between
six (6) and eight (8) feet in height. The fence shall incorporate at least one
of the predominant materials and one of the predominant colors used in the
primary structure. The fence may exceed eight (8) feet in height where the
difference in grade between the right-of-way and the outdoor storage area makes
a taller fence necessary to effectively screen the area. Materials may not be
stored higher than the height of the primary structure. The perimeter of the
fence or wall must be landscaped.
         c.   A landscaped earthen berm may be used instead of or in
combination with a required fence or wall.
         d.   If the outdoor storage area is covered, then the covering shall
include at least one of the predominant exposed roofing colors on the primary
structure.
         e.   No materials may be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
         f.   No storage of any items may occur within the front setback area
or within one-half (1/2) of each side setback nearest the street.
         g.   Rooftop outdoor storage is prohibited.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-4-200.   Temporary uses and structures.
   (a)   Purpose. This Development Code allows for the establishment of certain
temporary uses for limited duration, provided that such uses comply with the
general and specific standards of this Section.
   (b)   Temporary uses and structures allowed. The following temporary uses
are allowed provided they comply with the general standards of §
9-4-200(g), General Requirements for all Temporary Uses and Structures, below.
   (c)   Minor temporary uses. The following uses shall be classified as minor
temporary uses:
      (1)   Temporary seasonal and holiday sales (sporting goods, tree lots,
wreath sales);
      (2)   Temporary real estate sales office (including model homes);
      (3)   Contractor's office/temporary construction uses;
      (4)   Off-site auto sales;
      (5)   Travel trailers;
      (6)   Farmer's market held on private property;
      (7)   Temporary sales, not including mobile food vendors unless
specifically allowed within a zoning district;
      (8)   Seasonal outdoor garden nursery;
      (9)   Retail encroachment into required parking;
      (10)   Fruit/vegetable stands;
      (11)   Storage/shipping containers; and
      (12)   Auctions.
   (d)   Major temporary uses. The following uses shall be classified as major
temporary uses:
      (1)   Temporary special events held on private property;
      (2)   Circuses, festivals, carnivals, and fairs held on private property;
and
      (3)   Temporary lodging facilities.
   (e)   Exemptions. The regulations in this Section shall not apply to the
following uses:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Garage or estate sales;
      (3)   Private parties for fewer than fifty (50) people;
      (4)   Weddings of immediate family of the homeowner, not to exceed one-
hundred and fifty (150) guests;
      (5)   Regularly scheduled school events such as athletic events that use
existing parking, traffic controls and public safety support;
      (6)   Natural disasters and emergencies, staging and assembly grounds;
and
      (7)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   (f)   Permits for special events on public property. All special events on
any street, alley sidewalk, public building, or public park shall be subject to
the following standards and procedures set forth in the Creede Municipal Code,
and include but are not limited to: Alcoholic beverage permits (
Article 1 of Chapter 6, Alcoholic Beverage Licenses).
   (g)   General requirements for all temporary uses and structures. All
temporary uses or structures shall meet the following general requirements,
unless otherwise specified in this Development Code:
      (1)   The temporary use or structure shall not be detrimental to property
or improvements in the surrounding area or to the public health, safety or
general welfare;
      (2)   The temporary use shall comply with all applicable general and
specific regulations of this Section, other City ordinances, and state law
unless otherwise expressly stated;
      (3)   Permanent alterations to the site are prohibited;
      (4)   The temporary use or structure shall not violate any applicable
conditions of approval that apply to a principal use on the site;
      (5)   The temporary use regulations of this Section do not exempt the
applicant or operator from any other required permits, such as food service or
building permits;
      (6)   If the property is undeveloped, it shall contain sufficient land
area to allow the temporary use or structure to occur, as well as any parking
and traffic circulation as required that may be associated with the temporary
use, without disturbing sensitive or protected resources, including required
buffers, 100-year floodplain, and required landscaping. At the conclusion of
the temporary use or at expiration of the permit, whichever occurs first, all
disturbed areas of the site shall be restored or improved to the condition that
existed prior to the use;
      (7)   If the property is developed, the temporary use shall be located in
an area that is not actively used by an existing approved principal use and
that would support the proposed temporary use without encroaching or creating a
negative impact on existing buffers, open space, landscaping, traffic
movements, pedestrian circulation or parking space availability;
      (8)   Tents and other temporary structures shall be located so as not to
interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property, shall be anchored, and meet the requirements of the Building
Official, including fire rating;
      (9)   Off-street parking shall be adequate to accommodate the proposed
temporary use;
      (10)   The conduct of the temporary use will not require the diversion of
so great a number of police officers of the City to restrict the ability to
properly police the City;
      (11)   The conduct of such temporary use will not require the diversion
of so great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to
portions of the City other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto;
      (12)   The conduct of such temporary use will not interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment in route to a fire;
      (13)   The size, nature, or location of the temporary use or structure is
not reasonably likely to cause a clear and present danger of injury to persons
and property;
      (14)   Another temporary use permit application has not been received
prior in time or has already been approved for the same time and place
requested by the applicant or so close in time and place to that required by
the applicant that the issuance of both permits would cause undue traffic
congestion; and
      (15)   The location of the temporary use or structure will not
substantially interfere with any construction or maintenance work scheduled to
take place upon City streets.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016; Ord. 429 §1, 2021; Ord. 437 §1, 2022)
ARTICLE 5
Development Standards
Sec. 9-5-10.   Purpose and applicability.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the development standards in this Article is
to establish the minimum requirements for the development within the City of
Creede. The development and design standards in this Article shall apply to the
physical layout and design of all development, unless exempted by this
Development Code. These provisions address the physical relationship between
development and adjacent properties, public streets, neighborhoods, and the
natural environment in order to compliment the Comprehensive Plan vision for a
more attractive, efficient and livable community.
   (b)   Applicability. The general applicability of the provisions of this
Article 5, Development Standards, are more completely defined in this Section.
All new development shall comply with the standards of this Article. Any
modification to an existing development that is nonconforming to the
regulations of this Article which results in an addition or removal of fifty
percent (50%) or more of the development, shall require the entire development
to come into compliance.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-20.   Compact urban growth.
   (a)   Purpose. The City desires to adopt a compact urban growth policy that
encourages and directs development to take place within areas contiguous to
existing development in the community. This policy will accomplish several
goals, including:
      (1)   Improving air quality by reducing vehicle miles traveled and by
promoting alternatives to the private automobile;
      (2)   Preserving natural areas and features, particularly in the
periphery of the City;
      (3)   Making possible the efficient use of existing infrastructure and
cost effective extensions of new services; and
      (4)   Encouraging in-fill development and reinvestment in built-up areas
of the City.
   (b)   Concepts. The following concepts would be considered. Establish a
planning area with Mineral County and other neighbors to direct growth within
the established planning area boundary to ensure the community grows in a way
that enhances the special qualities of our community and maintains a team
spirit and interconnectedness. The districts below are a general guide in
conjunction with the underlying land use designations on the Comprehensive Plan
Future Land Use Map:
      (1)   Primary mixed use. Directs the most dense urban development closest
to the heart of City.
      (2)   Primary industrial/business. Establishes the state highway/
interstate corridor as the primary location for industrial/business park
development.
      (3)   Conservation subdivision. Limits residential density and preserves
open space in areas at the edge of the planning area boundary (rural/urban
interface).
      (4)   Protected natural areas. Preserves continuous open space along
drainage ways and flood channels.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-30.   Blocks and lots.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the block and lot standards is to continue
existing block pattern in a manner that is compatible with site-specific
environmental conditions.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Blocks (exclusive of conservation subdivisions). Streets shall be
designed to create blocks that consider interconnectedness, topography, solar
orientation, views and other design features. The lengths, widths and shapes of
blocks shall be determined with due regard to the following:
         a.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         b.   Need for convenient access, control and safety of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic circulation; and
         c.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      (2)   Lot dimension and configuration.
         a.   Lot size, width, depth, shape, and orientation and minimum
building setback lines shall conform to Article 4, Zone Districts and Official
Zoning Map, and shall facilitate the placement of buildings with sufficient
access, outdoor space, privacy and view.
         b.   Depth and width of properties shall be adequate to provide for
off-street parking, landscaping and loading areas required by the type of use
and development contemplated.
         c.   All lots shall have frontage that is either adjacent to or
directly accessible to a street. Street frontage shall typically not be less
than twenty-five percent (25%) of the lot depth.
         d.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to
accommodate side elevation enhancements, such as porches and bay windows, the
required building setback and utility easements on both street frontages. For a
corner lot, the front of the lot is defined as the side having the shortest
street frontage. In the case of a reverse corner lot, both sides abutting a
street shall maintain a front yard setback.
         e.   Double frontage lots for residential shall not be permitted
except where essential to provide separation of residential properties from
arterial streets or commercial uses, or to overcome specific disadvantage of
topography and orientation. A planting screen easement of at least ten (10)
feet in width, across which there shall be no vehicular right of access, may be
required along the property line of lots abutting an arterial or other
disadvantageous use.
         f.   Residential lot access to adjacent street. Driveway access to a
local or collector street from a single-family detached residential lot shall
be limited to one driveway curb-cut or driveway access of no greater than
twenty (20) feet in width. A circular drive in which each access to the local
or collector street is less than ten (10) feet in width, separated by at least
thirty (30) feet and which is constructed as an integral part of the overall
architectural design of the single family residence may be considered as a
single driveway access.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-40.   Streets.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the street standards is to establish a safe,
efficient, attractive transportation system that promotes all modes of
transportation and is sensitive to the environment.
   (b)   Standards. The local street system of any proposed development shall
be designed to be safe, efficient, convenient and attractive, and consider the
use by all modes of transportation that will use the system. Streets should be
an inviting public space and an integral part of community design. Local
streets shall provide for both intra- and inter-neighborhood connections to
knit developments together, rather than forming barriers between them. All
streets should interconnect to help create a comprehensive network of public
areas to allow free movement of cars, bicycles and pedestrians.
      (1)   Street connections. All streets shall be aligned to join with
planned or existing streets as allowed by topography. All streets shall be
designed to bear a logical relationship to the topography of the land.
Intersections of streets shall be at right angles unless otherwise approved by
the City. Street intersections shall be separated by not less than one hundred
twenty-five (125) feet as measured from the intersecting right-of-way lines.
      (2)   Street layout. The street layout shall form an interconnected
system of streets primarily in a grid or modified pattern adapted to the
topography, unique natural features, environmental constraints and peripheral
open space areas. The street layout shall emphasize the location of
neighborhood focus points, other internal open space areas, gateways and
vistas. The use of cul-de-sacs and other roadways with a single point of access
shall be minimized. The integration of traffic calming features within and
adjacent to residential areas shall be utilized when appropriate. All streets
shall be designed with snow removal taken into consideration.
      (3)   Visibility at intersections. No shrubs, ground cover, berms,
fences, structures, or other materials or items greater than thirty (30) inches
in height shall be planted, created or maintained at street intersections
within the site distance triangle. Trees shall not be planted in the site
distance triangle.
      (4)   Pedestrian crossings at street intersections and mid-block.
Pedestrian crossings shall be accessible to handicapped individuals and mid-
block crossings may be required at the direction of the Board of Trustees.
      (5)   Horizontal alignment. Horizontal alignment shall provide for the
safety of pedestrians, bicyclists and motorists. The street pattern shall be
the most advantageous to serve the adjoining areas.
      (6)   Vertical alignment. No vertical grade shall be less than four-
tenths percent (0.04%) in order to facilitate adequate drainage. The maximum
percent of street grade, except as approved by the City Engineer, shall be five
percent (5%). Street grades shall not exceed four percent (4%) for a distance
extending at least forty (40) feet in each direction from a street
intersection.
      (7)   Access. Access to all subdivisions should be from a public street
system. Driveways shall be discouraged to have direct access to arterials or
state highways (Principal Arterials).
      (8)   Street right-of-way dedication. The full width of right-of-way for
all streets being platted must be dedicated to the City and the streets shall
be completed to City standards before acceptance by the City. The subdivider
shall finalize an agreement with the City which guarantees the construction of
the street to City standards.
      (9)   Perimeter streets. When a street is dedicated which ends on the
plat, the street right-of-way must be dedicated to the boundary of the plat.
   (c)   Street standards. The width of street right-of-way and the design of
the street it contains shall be designed by an engineer and approved by the
City Engineer.
      (1)   Local streets.
         a.   Local streets shall generally follow a modified grid pattern
adapted to the topography, unique natural features, environmental constraints
and peripheral open space areas. These streets shall generally parallel the
arterial and collector street system, provide a variety of route options,
interconnect to allow traffic to disperse in an equitable manner and be as
narrow as possible without sacrificing the ability to accommodate expected
traffic and services.
         b.   Right-of-way requirements for local streets with detached
sidewalk: Fifty (50) feet of right-of-way.
      (2)   Alleys.
         a.   Alleys shall be treated as public ways, and any lot having access
from an alley shall also front upon a public street.
         b.   Garages, accessory dwellings above garages and rear yards may
access the collector and local street system via an alley with minimal travel
through other land uses.
         c.   Right-of-way requirements for residential alleys: Fifteen (15)
feet of right-of-way.
         d.   Right-of-way requirements for commercial/industrial alley:
Fifteen (15) feet of right-of-way.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-50.   Parking.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to provide adequate parking
for motor vehicles while minimizing the visual impact of parking lots and
structures.
   (b)   Standards. In all zone districts, off-street parking facilities for
the storage of self-propelled motor vehicles for the use of occupants,
employees and patrons of the building or structures hereafter erected, altered
or extended shall be provided and maintained as herein prescribed.
   (c)   Parking restrictions for excess weight vehicles and recreational
vehicles.
      (1)   The owner or operator of any vehicle weighing in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds, other than emergency vehicles, shall not park said
vehicle on any public right-of-way or roadway, except when making local
deliveries, nor shall excess weight vehicles, boats, boat trailers, tractors,
trailers, semi-trailers, motor homes, buses or detached/dismounted campers be
parked or kept on private property for longer than seventy-two (72) hours,
except as herein provided.
      (2)   No boat, boat trailer, tractor, trailer, semi-trailer, motor home,
bus or detached/dismounted camper shall be kept or parked upon any public
right-of-way or roadway, except for visitation purposes not exceeding twenty-
four (24) hours.
      (3)   All excess weight vehicles, boats, boat trailers, motor homes,
buses or detached/dismounted campers kept or stored on private residential
property for longer than seventy-two (72) hours shall be kept or stored in the
rear yard screened from view or within an enclosed building. No such vehicle
shall be used for storage or as a business or residential premises.
      (4)   All excess weight vehicles, boats, boat trailers, tractors,
trailers, semi-trailers, motor homes, buses or detached/dismounted campers kept
or stored on private property for longer than seventy-two (72) hours shall be
kept or stored in a yard screened from view or within an enclosed building. The
property where storage occurs must be properly zoned for the use. No such
vehicle shall be used for storage or as a business or residential premises.
      (5)   No mobile home may be located permanently in any residential area
unless it is zoned for the same.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-60.   Sidewalks, multi-use pathways and trails.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the standards for sidewalks, multi-use
pathways and trails is to assure a safe, convenient, and attractive pedestrian/
bicycle system that minimizes conflicts between vehicles, bicycles and
pedestrians.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Interconnected network. A sidewalk network that interconnects all
dwelling units with other dwelling units, non-residential uses and common open
space may be required throughout each development.
      (2)   Sidewalk width. Where sidewalks are installed they shall be a
minimum of five (5) feet wide along local streets.
      (3)   Sidewalk location. Sidewalks shall be located within the right-of-
way unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Sidewalk installation. Sidewalks and related improvements shall be
installed or constructed by the developer in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the City and, after installation or construction,
they shall be subject to inspection and approval by the City. All required
improvements shall be completed in accordance with the officially established
grades.
      (5)   Accessibility. Sidewalks and plazas shall be accessible to
handicapped individuals in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
requirements.
      (6)   Multi-use pathways and trails (bikeways). Multi-use pathways shall
be provided to link internal open space areas with peripheral open space areas
and shall connect to multi-use pathway routes throughout the community where
appropriate.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-70.   Easement and utility standards.
   (a)   Utility easement width. Easements may be more or less than widths
stated if the specific utility indicates in writing a width other than those
required by this Development Code. Utility easements shall be subject to the
approval of the City and applicable utility company.
   (b)   Multiple installations within easements. Easements shall be designed
so as to provide efficient installation of utilities. Public utility
installations shall be located as to permit multiple installations within the
easements. The developer will establish final utility grades prior to utility
installations.
   (c)   Underground utilities. Telephone lines, electric lines, cable
television lines and other like utility services shall be placed underground in
conduit. The subdivider shall be responsible for complying with the
requirements of this Subsection, and shall make the necessary arrangements
including any construction or installation charges with each utility provider
for the installation of such facilities. Transformers, switching boxes, meter
cabinets, pedestals, ducts and other facilities necessarily appurtenant to such
underground utilities shall be placed underground or on the surface but not on
utility poles. Screening or fencing is required to the satisfaction of the
Board of Trustees. Electric transmission and distribution feeder lines and
necessary appurtenances thereto may not be placed above ground unless they are
carrying greater than 115 kV. Such facilities shall be placed within easements
or public streets, as therein provided, or upon private easements or rights-of-
way provided for particular facilities.
   (d)   Street lighting. Street lighting and associated underground street
lighting supply circuits shall be installed. The requirements should meet the
minimum standards associated with the generally accepted lighting and supplies
in the area at the time. Arterial streets and commercial areas may have a
higher level of lighting requirements as determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-80.   Parks and open space.
   (a)   Purpose. To ensure that a comprehensive, integrated network of parks
and open space is developed and preserved as the community grows.
   (b)   Ownership and maintenance of open space.
      (1)   The City shall own and maintain neighborhood parks, community
parks, district parks and public trails.
      (2)   Pocket parks, landscaped out-lots, and private recreational
facilities shall be owned and maintained by a homeowners' association or the
landowner.
      (3)   Environmentally sensitive, archaeological and historic resources
may be dedicated to the City and maintained by the City if approved by the
Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Conservation areas set aside as part of a conservation subdivision
shall be owned and maintained by the homeowners' association.
      (5)   Storm water detention and retention areas that function as open
space shall be owned and maintained by a homeowners' association or the
landowner, unless otherwise approved by the City.
      (6)   Areas designated as open space shall be maintained according to the
designated function of the area. Applicants shall work with the National
Resources Conservation Service to develop a management plan which addresses:
irrigation, revegetation, erosion control and weed management. If the area is
to remain in private ownership, a mechanism which will assure maintenance will
be funded in perpetuity must be in place at the time of final plat.
   (c)   Open space protection. Areas designated as open space shall be
protected by a deed restriction or other appropriate method to ensure that they
cannot be subdivided or developed in the future and remain open in perpetuity.
They may be dedicated to the public or held in private ownership. Appropriate
ownership will be determined through the review process in cooperation with the
landowner. Future use may include recreational or agricultural activities if
approved by the City.
   (d)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   Open space includes:
         a.   Areas within the community designated for the common use of the
residents of an individual development and/or the community at large;
         b.   Areas designated for preservation and protection of environmental
resources including floodplains, natural drainage ways, and wetland areas;
         c.   Areas impacted by subsidence;
         d.   Areas designated for agricultural preservation; and
         e.   Areas of archeological and historic significance.
      (2)   Open space shall not include the following:
         a.   Required setback areas around oil and gas production facilities;
         b.   Disconnected remnants of land created by division of sites into
lots or parcels that do not qualify as functional open space or that preserve
environmental resources, unless approved by the Board of Trustees;
         c.   Private yards;
         d.   Tree lawns in street rights-of-way; or
         e.   Required parking lot landscaping associated with all uses, except
parking specifically designated for access to open space areas and within
commercial/industrial projects.
      (3)   Amount of open space required. The amount of functional open space
required in each development will be based on the density of the development,
the recreational requirements of the anticipated users and the anticipated
opportunities for public recreation within walking distance of the site one-
quarter (0.25) mile. However, all residential subdivisions shall dedicate a
minimum of twelve percent (12%) of the gross land area for public parks,
trails, open space or other civic purposes at the time of subdivision. Non-
residential subdivisions shall dedicate twelve percent (12%) of the gross land
area for public parks, trails, open space and other civic purposes at the time
of subdivision. This dedication can be credited toward the overall open space
required for the subdivision.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-90.   Dedication of public sites and open spaces.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the dedication and/or payment is to provide
the public facilities and/or services made necessary as a consequence of the
site development, in an amount roughly proportional to the impact of the site
development upon such facilities and/or services or the increased need for them
brought about by the site development. The developer shall have the option, in
its sole discretion, to accept the City's calculation of the required
dedication, or to perform such studies as are necessary to demonstrate the
actual impact of the site development upon public services and facilities and
the resulting appropriate dedication or other contribution.
   (b)   Amount of land dedicated. The developer shall dedicate public sites
for parks, open space or other civic purposes prior to final approval for all
site developments in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Percentage dedication. Dedication of such sites and land areas to
the City, or to the public, which dedication shall be a minimum of ten percent
(10%) of the total gross area of the land within the proposed subdivision at
the time of subdivision. This land dedication will be credited toward the
overall open space required for each subdivision; or
      (2)   Fee-in-lieu of dedication. As determined by the Board of Trustees,
the developer shall pay fee-in-lieu of land dedication in those cases where
dedication of land is not the preferred alternative. Such payment shall be
based on the fair market value of the entire property, to be determined after
completion of the platting process. Such payment shall be held by the Board of
Trustees for the acquisition of sites and land areas by the City. At the option
of the Board of Trustees, the subdivider may meet the dedication requirements
of this Section through a combination of fee-in-lieu and land dedication.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-100.   School site dedication.
   (a)   Purpose. It is declared to be the policy of the City, whenever there
is an annexation of property into the City for residential development
purposes, a proposed increase of residential use resulting from rezoning a
property, an amendment to a planned unit development, or development of
subdivision, the owner of the land shall provide land for school needs
generated by the proposed residential use. It is the purpose of this Section to
require the dedication of land or the payment of fees in lieu thereof directly
for the benefit of the schools of the City.
   (b)   Amount of land dedicated. Land shall be dedicated or conveyed for a
public school site to the Creede School District #1 ("School District"), or in
the event the dedication of land is not deemed feasible or in the best
interests of the School District as determined by the Superintendent or
designee of the School District, payment in-lieu of land dedication or
conveyance shall be required. The amount of contribution of either land or
payment in-lieu of land shall be determined pursuant to the following formula:
      (1)   Single-family and duplex or primary secondary: Number of units x
.014495 = dedication requirement in acres.
      (2)   Multi-family: Number of units x .002676 = dedication requirement in
acres.
   (c)   Conveyance. In the event the school site dedication includes
dedication of land, prior to recording the final plat the following items shall
be completed:
      (1)   The land shall be conveyed to the School District, by general
warranty deed, title to the land slated for dedication, which title is free and
clear of all liens, encumbrances and exceptions (except those approved in
writing by the School District), including, without limitation, real property
taxes, which will be prorated to the date of conveyance or dedication.
      (2)   Proof of the dedication or conveyance shall be provided to the
City.
      (3)   At the time of dedication or conveyance, a title insurance
commitment and policy in an amount equal to the fair market value of the
dedicated property shall be provided.
      (4)   The public improvement agreement shall provide for the installation
of the streets adjacent to the school site, the installation of water, sewer
and other public utilities to the school site and over lot grading of the
school site.
   (d)   Cash in-lieu of land dedication. In the event the school site
dedication includes payment in-lieu of the dedication of land, prior to the
issuance of any building permit for any residential dwelling unit not otherwise
exempt under §
9-5-100 below, cash in-lieu shall be paid to the City on behalf of the School
District. The City, in cooperation with the School District, shall establish
cash in-lieu of land dedication fees under a separate ordinance.
   (e)   Storm drainage facilities; purpose. To promote innovative and
effective land and water management techniques that protect and enhance water
quality. All storm drainage facilities will be designed by an engineer,
recommended by the City Engineer and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-110.   Commercial and industrial architecture.
   (a)   Purpose. The City has the following four distinctly different
commercial/industrial types of development within its planning area: Downtown
(B-1); Mixed Use Highway (B-2); Commercial (C); and Industrial (I). They are
different in character, purpose, and mixture of uses. The design considerations
vary for each type, although there are many common design elements outlined
below.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Connections. Commercial developments must be linked with
surrounding areas by extending City streets, sidewalks, and/or paths directly
into and through the development, thereby providing convenient, direct
pedestrian, bicycle and vehicle access to and from all sides of the
development.
      (2)   Accessibility. Developments must be accessible to pedestrians and
bicyclists as well as motorists. The emphasis must not be placed solely on
parking and drive-through functions. Site plans shall equally emphasize the
following:
         a.   Pedestrian access to the site and buildings;
         b.   Gathering areas for people; and
         c.   Auto access and parking lots.
      (3)   Walkways. Walkways must be located and aligned to directly and
continuously connect areas or points of pedestrian origin and destination, and
not be located and aligned solely based on the outline of a parking lot
configuration that does not provide such direct pedestrian access.
      (4)   On-street parking. Streets and other elements of the site plan
shall be designed so that on-street parking is a functional part of the
development (except along arterial streets).
      (5)   Building orientation. Where possible, buildings shall be located to
front on and relate primarily to streets. Building setbacks from local and
collector streets should be minimized in order to establish a visually
continuous, pedestrian-oriented street front. In the case of large buildings
for employment, storage or auto-related uses, where greater setbacks are
needed, a minimum of thirty (30%) percent of the building shall be brought to
the setback line. If a minimized setback is not maintained, the larger setback
area shall have landscaping, low walls or fencing, a tree canopy and/or other
site improvements along the sidewalk designed for pedestrian interest, scale
and comfort.
   (c)   Industrial/business park architectural standards.
      (1)   Purpose. State Highway 149 provides the opportunity to localize
industrial/business park development, as well as highway commercial. The
following standards shall apply.
      (2)   Building massing and form.
         a.   Office and entry spaces shall be distinguished from the building
mass.
         b.   Large, square, "box-like" structures are not an acceptable form.
Architectural elements with smaller forms stepping outwards and down shall be
included.
         c.   Loading areas shall not front any street or public right-of-way
if at all possible.
         d.   Parking requirements shall be provided to the extent possible at
the rear or sides of the building.
      (3)   Siting structures.
         a.   Structures shall be sited to avoid a "wall" affect along public
rights-of-way and along adjacent property lines. This can be achieved by
varying the building setbacks and clustering buildings.
         b.   Where multiple buildings are proposed on a development parcel,
buildings shall be oriented to allow views into the project and shall preserve
high quality views through the project (e.g. views of the mountains).
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-120.   Lighting.
   (a)   Purpose. To create an attractive lighting system to enhance visibility
and safety, while minimizing glare and contrast. To encourage exterior lighting
that is functional, aesthetically pleasing and complimentary to the
architectural style of buildings.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Evaluation of exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall be
evaluated in the development review process to ensure that the functional and
security needs of the project are met in a way that does not adversely affect
the adjacent properties or neighborhood. The degree to which exterior night
lighting affects a property owner or neighborhood will be examined considering
the light source, level of illumination, hours of illumination and need for
illumination in relation to the effects of the lighting on the adjacent
property owners and the neighborhood.
      (2)   Light style. The style of lights shall be consistent with the style
and character of architecture proposed on the site. Light fixtures that
illuminate signage shall be compatible with the architecture of the building on
which they are placed.
      (3)   Concealed light source. Light sources shall be concealed or
shielded to the maximum extent feasible to minimize the potential for glare and
unnecessary diffusion on adjacent property and away from the vision of passing
motorists. All lights shall be directed downward and the light source shall be
equipped with "cut-off" devices so that it will not be visible from any
adjacent property and to ensure that ambient skyward light is eliminated.
Accent and flagpole lighting shall be permitted to be directed upward as long
as the light source is shielded and not visible from any adjacent property.
Light fixtures installed under canopies, awnings, overhangs and the like shall
be fully recessed.
      (4)   Hours of lighting operation. All parking lot lighting fixtures and
exterior building lights, except those required for security purposes, shall be
extinguished within one (1) hour after the end of business hours and remain
extinguished until one (1) hour prior to the beginning of business hours. If a
portion of a parking lot is used after dark, only that portion shall be
lighted.
      (5)   Height standards for lighting.
         a.   Residential zoning districts. Light fixtures shall be mounted on
concrete, fiberglass or painted metal poles no higher than sixteen (16) feet
from the ground. Lighting mounted on a building or structure shall not exceed
the height of the building or structure. Bollard-type lighting fixtures shall
be between three (3) and four (4) feet high.
         b.   Non-residential zoning districts. Light fixtures shall be mounted
on concrete, fiberglass or painted metal poles no higher than twenty-five (25)
feet from the ground, unless a greater height, not to exceed the maximum
building height in the applicable zone district, is approved by the variance
process found in §
9-3-90, Variance. Lighting mounted on a building or structure shall not exceed
the height of the building or structure. Bollard-type lighting fixtures shall
be between three (3) and four (4) feet high.
      (6)   Exemption for outdoor recreational uses. Because of their limited
hours of operation and their unique requirements for nighttime visibility, ball
diamonds, playing fields, tennis courts, and other similar outdoor recreational
uses (both public and private, unless otherwise restricted by the Board of
Trustees) shall be exempt from the general provisions of this Section. However,
exterior lighting for such uses shall be extinguished no later than 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-130.   Environmental considerations.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to ensure that new development
attempts limits/mitigates its impact to wildlife and wildlife habitat and that
it minimizes environmental impacts.
   (b)   Standards.
      (1)   Protection of wildlife and natural areas. To the maximum extent
practical, development shall be designed to ensure that disturbances which
occur to any natural area as a result of development shall be minimized through
the use of natural buffer zones. If any development materially disturbs a
natural area, the development project shall mitigate such lost natural resource
either on or off-site. Any such mitigation shall be roughly proportional to the
loss suffered as a result of the disturbance.
         a.   Natural areas shall include:
            1.   Floodplains and floodways;
            2.   Natural drainage and water ways;
            3.   Significant native trees and vegetation; and
            4.   Wildlife travel corridors.
         b.   The natural area buffer zone shall be used between natural areas
and proposed development to ensure that the proposed development does not
degrade the natural area. The size of the buffer zone shall be determined in
conjunction with the Colorado Division of Wildlife or a City approved wetland
or wildlife ecologist. The City may decrease this buffer when strict
application of this Subsection will impose an exceptional and undue hardship
upon the property owner or developer.
   (c)   Exceptions. The Board of Trustees may allow disturbance or
construction activity within the natural area or natural area buffer zone for
the following limited purposes:
      (1)   Mitigation of development activities;
      (2)   Restoration of previously degraded areas;
      (3)   Emergency public safety activities and utility installations when
such activities and installations cannot reasonably be contained within other
nearby developed areas;
      (4)   Construction of a trail that will provide public access for
educational or recreational purposes; or
      (5)   The enhancement of the habitat value and/or other natural resource
values of a natural area.
   (d)   Ecological characterization. If the City determines that the site
likely includes areas with wildlife, plant life, and/or other natural
characteristics in need of protection, the City may require the developer to
provide a report prepared by a professional qualified in the areas of ecology,
wildlife biology or other relevant discipline. The ecological characterization
report should be included on the open space plan and describe the following:
      (1)   The wildlife use of the natural area showing the species of the
wildlife using the area, the times or seasons the areas is used by those
species and the "value" (meaning feeding, watering, cover, nesting, roosting,
perching) that the area provides for such wildlife species;
      (2)   The boundary of wetlands in the area and a description of the
ecological functions and characteristics provided by those wetlands;
      (3)   Any prominent views from or across the site;
      (4)   The pattern, species, and location of any significant native trees
and other native site vegetation;
      (5)   The bank, shoreline and high water mark of any perennial stream or
body of water on the site;
      (6)   Wildlife travel corridors; and
      (7)   The general ecological functions provided by the site and its
features.
   (e)   Wildlife conflicts. If wildlife that may create conflicts for the
future occupants of the development (including, but not limited to, prairie
dogs, beaver, deer and elks) are known to exist in areas adjacent to or on the
development site, then the development plan must, to the extent reasonably
feasible, include provisions such as barriers, protection mechanisms for
landscaping and other site features to minimize conflicts that might otherwise
exist between such wildlife and the developed portion of the site. Any impacts
to wildlife must be referred to the Colorado Division of Wildlife and, in the
case of threatened or endangered species, United States Fish and Wildlife
Services.
   (f)   Green building practices. The City seeks to promote the utilization of
building practices which benefit the environment and the socio-economic well-
being of current and future residents.
      (1)   Resource areas. There are five resource areas which should be
addressed by a green building program:
         a.   Water (quality and quantity);
         b.   Energy (quantity and type);
         c.   Building materials (life cycle impacts);
         d.   Solid waste (construction and operation impacts); and
         e.   Health and safety.
      (2)   Compliance. Compliance with the requirements of the U.S. Green
Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program or any
substantially similar green building program is strongly encouraged.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-140.   Sanitary sewer.
   All residential, commercial and industrial uses which have human occupancy
shall have sanitary sewer at the developer's cost. The sanitary sewer system
shall be connected to an existing public sanitary sewer system and shall
consist of a closed system of sanitary sewer mains and lateral branch
connections to each structure or lot upon which a structure is to be built.
Sanitary sewer lines are to be of sufficient size and design to collect all
sewage from all proposed or portable structures within the subdivision or
development. On a case-by-case basis, the Board of Trustees may approve
individual sewage disposal systems that comply with Mineral County Health
Department standards. However, no new addition, upgrade or major repair to an
individual sewage disposal system will be permitted if the property is located
within four hundred (400) feet of a municipal or sanitation district collection
line, measured through existing sewer easements or utility rights-of-way,
except where approved by the Board of Trustees or the Mineral County Health
Department.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-150.   Potable water.
   All residential, commercial and industrial uses, which have human occupancy,
shall have potable water served by the City or appropriate water district at
the developer's cost. The water system shall be of sufficient size and design
to supply potable water to each structure or lot upon which a structure is to
be built at the developer's cost.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-5-160.   Fire hydrants.
   The subdivider shall install fire hydrants at street intersections and at
other points as per the requirements of the Mineral County/Creede Fire
Protection District. Fire hydrants shall have national standards threads, two
and one-half (2.5) inch outlets and four and one-half (4.5) inch or six (6)
inch streamers, built at the developer's cost.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 6
RV Parks
Sec. 9-6-10.   Definitions.
   As used in this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   Recreational vehicle means a vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle. The
following shall be considered a recreational vehicle (RV):
      (1)   Camping trailer. A canvas (or other type of material), folding
vehicle of rigid construction, mounted on wheels and designed for travel and
recreation.
      (2)   Motorized home, motor home and/or recreational bus or van. A
recreational vehicle consisting of a portable, temporary dwelling to be used
for travel, recreation and vacation uses and constructed as an integral part of
a self-propelled vehicle.
      (3)   Pickup coach. A vehicle designed to be mounted on or loaded into a
truck chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreation.
      (4)   Tent. Protective fabric erected to provide protection from the
elements.
      (5)   Travel trailer. A towable vehicle designed as a temporary dwelling
for travel and recreation.
      (6)   Travel trailer, self-contained. A trailer which can operate
independently of connections to sewer, water and electric systems. It contains
a water-flushed toilet, lavatory, shower or bath and kitchen sink, all of which
are connected to water storage and sewage holding tanks located within the
trailer.
   Recreational vehicle park means a parcel of land specifically developed for
locating only recreational vehicles on lots on a short-term basis.
   Recreational vehicle site means a plot of ground within a recreational
vehicle park intended for the accommodation of a recreational vehicle, tent or
other individual camping unit on a temporary basis.
   Sanitary facilities means toilets, urinals, lavatories, showers, utility
sinks and drinking fountains and the service buildings containing these units.
   Sanitary waste station means a facility used for removing and disposing of
waste from self-contained camping vehicle sewage holding tanks.
   Service building means a structure housing toilet, lavatory, bath, laundry,
service sink and other such sanitary facilities as may be required.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-20.   Review process.
   (a)   All new recreational vehicle parks or development on any recreational
vehicle park, new or pre-existing, must submit all plans and specifications in
detail for such development to the Planning Commission and obtain approval
after formal public hearing from the Board of Trustees. No construction or
development shall be commenced until approved by the Board of Trustees and a
building permit issued.
   (b)   Permits for development of recreational vehicle parks shall be granted
according to the process found in §
9-3-80, Special Review Use, of this Code.
   (c)   The Building Inspector shall inspect each new recreational vehicle
park or space/site addition or construction on existing parks to determine
compliance with the provisions of this Article and all other applicable
ordinances, rules, regulations or codes. No occupancy shall be permitted or
certificate of occupancy issued until said officials have made such
determination in writing. Occupancy of the premises prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy based on the above determination shall subject the
violator to the penalties set forth in this Article. The above-named officials
shall have authority to enter upon the premises for the purpose of such
inspection at any reasonable time without notice or approval of the owner or
manager.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-30.   Location of recreational vehicle parks.
   (a)   Recreational vehicle parks may be located in areas whose principal
characteristic or activity is highway service or highway commercial such as the
B-2 zone.
   (b)   Recreational vehicle parks will not be permitted in any area zoned
residential or in floodplain areas.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-40.   Park development standards.
   (a)   Site conditions. Conditions of soil, groundwater level, drainage and
topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety of
the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise,
odors or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable
flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for any purpose which would
expose persons or property to hazards.
   (b)   Soil and groundcover. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of the
recreational vehicle park shall be paved, or covered with stone screening or
other solid materials, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of
preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust
   (c)   Drainage requirements. A drainage plan shall be developed for the
recreational vehicle park.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-50.   Park size and density.
   (a)   Park size. The minimum gross area for a recreational vehicle park is
one (1) acre. The maximum gross area allowed is three (3) acres.
   (b)   Park density. The maximum density shall not exceed twelve (12)
recreational vehicles per gross acre.
   (c)   Minimum site size. Each recreational vehicle site shall contain a
minimum of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet and shall have a
minimum width of twenty-five (25) feet.
   (d)   Site pads. Each site shall contain a vehicle parking pad of concrete
or asphalt paving. Minimum length of the parking pad shall be thirty-five (35)
feet. No part of a recreational vehicle or other unit placed on the lot pad
shall be closer than five (5) feet to the edge of the lot.
   (e)   Required separation between RV vehicles. Recreation vehicles shall be
separated from each other and from other structures by at least ten (10) feet.
Any accessory structure such as attached awnings or comports for purposes of
this separation requirement shall be considered to be part of the recreational
vehicle.
   (f)   Site identification. Each site for the parking of the recreational
vehicle shall be identified by numbers, a minimum of three (3) inches in
height, posted in a conspicuous place at the front of the site.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-60.   Roadways and parking.
   (a)   Interior roads. All interior two-way roads shall be twenty-eight (28)
feet minimum width and all interior one-way roads shall be twenty (20) feet
minimum width. All roads shall be paved with asphalt and crowned to facilitate
drainage. Roadways shall be designed for the safe and convenient movement of
vehicles.
   (b)   Parking requirements. At least one and one-half (1.5) off-road parking
spaces shall be provided in the park per recreation vehicle site. At least one
(1) off-road parking space shall be provided at each site. No on-street parking
will be permitted.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-70.   Entrances and exits.
   Locations and access. No entrance or exit from a recreational vehicle park
shall be permitted through a residential district nor require movement of
traffic from the park through a residential district.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-80.   Design of access to park.
   (a)   Entrances and exits to recreational vehicle parks shall be designed
for the safe and convenient movement of traffic into and out of the park and to
minimize marginal friction with free movement of traffic on adjacent streets.
   (b)   Each recreational vehicle park shall have a separate entrance and exit
roadway, each of which shall not be less than twenty-eight (28) feet wide from
flow line to flow line, shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete and
shall connect to a dedicated public right-of-way not less than forty (40) feet
in width.
   (c)   Access onto state highways. Access onto state-controlled highways or
roads will require a permit from the State Department of Transportation. The
design of the access will be according to Department of Transportation
requirements.
   (d)   Distance from intersection. Entrance driveways shall be located not
closer than one hundred fifty (150) feet from the intersection of public
streets.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-90.   Accessory uses.
   The following are permitted as accessory uses to the park:
   (a)   Management headquarters;
   (b)   Recreational facilities;
   (c)   Toilets, dumping stations;
   (d)   Showers;
   (e)   Coin-operated laundry facilities; and
   (f)   Other uses and structures customarily incidental to operation of a
recreational vehicle park and campground.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-100.   Open space and recreational areas.
   (a)   A general area or areas amounting to not less than ten percent (10%)
of the gross area of the recreational vehicle park, excluding any area
dedicated as public right-of-way, shall be provided for recreation and open
space use.
   (b)   Such areas shall not include any area designated as a recreational
vehicle space, storage area, required yard, service building or sanitary
facility or waste station area.
   (c)   Recreational facilities shall be included in the ten percent (10%)
requirement for open space.
   (d)   A reasonably sized pet exercising area will be provided. City leash
laws are to be enforced.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-110.   Buffering, setbacks, screening and landscaping.
   (a)   Yards and setbacks. Each recreational vehicle park shall set aside
along the perimeter of the park the following areas which shall be landscaped
and used for no other purpose:
 
SUMMARY OF YARD SETBACKS
If yard abuts a: Residential Other District Public Right-of-Way State Highway
                 District
Front yard       Not allowed Not allowe d   25 feet             50 feet
Side yard        50 feet     15 feet        25 feet             50 feet
Rear yard        50 feet     15 feet        25 feet             50 feet
 
   (b)   Landscaping. A landscaping plan illustrating the placement and type of
trees and shrubs must be submitted as part of the park development plan. The
design of the landscaping must mitigate the visual impact of the recreational
vehicle park on the surrounding area.
   (c)   Boundary fencing. Except for the front boundary, each recreational
vehicle park shall be enclosed by a solid fence of wood or wall of brick or
stone not less than six (6) feet in height.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-120.   Utilities.
   (a)   All utilities underground. All public utilities within the
recreational vehicle park shall be underground.
   (b)   Water supply. The water supply for the recreational vehicle park shall
be provided by a delivery system that is owned and operated by the City of
Creede. The water system shall be connected by pipes to all service buildings
and all recreational vehicle spaces. The water distribution system within the
park shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   The water distribution system shall be designed, constructed and
maintained in compliance with State Department of Health regulations and
recommendations to provide a safe, potable and adequate supply of water.
      (2)   The distribution system shall not be connected to any potable water
supply nor be subject to any backflow.
      (3)   The distribution system shall deliver water at a minimum pressure
of at least twenty (20) pounds per square inch and a minimum flow of at least
one (1) gallon per minute at all outlets.
      (4)   The distribution system shall be capable of delivering a minimum
volume of one hundred (100) gallons per day per recreational vehicle site.
      (5)   Water service lines, riser pipes and valves shall be installed and
protected from damage by freezing, ground movement, vehicles or other damage
sources.
      (6)   The riser pipe at each recreational vehicle site shall be at least
three-quarter (3/4) inch in diameter and shall extend at least four (4) inches
vertically above the ground elevation. It shall be equipped with a three-
quarter (3/4) inch valve outlet with a threaded male spigot for attaching a
standard garden hose.
      (7)   Tent camping sites shall be provided with common use water faucets
located no more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from any campsite where
appropriate and approved by the Board of Trustees.
      (8)   Drinking fountains, if provided, shall be approved angle jet type
with adequate water.
      (9)   Spillage, overflow, drainage or wastewater from faucets and
drinking fountains shall be discharged to approved drains to prevent
impoundment of water, creation of mud holes or other nuisance conditions.
      (10)   A water station for filling camping vehicle water storage tanks
shall be provided in each park. These shall be located not less than fifty (50)
feet from a sanitary station. The station shall be posted with signs of durable
material, not less than two (2) square feet, which state: POTABLE WATER - DO
NOT USE TO FLUSH VEHICLE WASTE TANKS. Such water stations shall consist of at
least a three-quarter (3/4) inch pipe and valve outlet and shall be protected
against the hazards of backflow and back siphonage by an approved vacuum
breaker located downstream from the shutoff valve. The fill hose shall be
suspended so that no part of the hose and its appurtenances will come into
contact with the ground. A sign shall be posted at the entrance of the park
indicating the provision of a sanitary station and water station.
   (c)   Sewage disposal. Facilities shall be provided and properly maintained
for the collection and disposal or treatment and disposal of sewage.
      (1)   Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures,
building sewers and campground sewers shall be connected thereto. If a public
sewer system is not available, a private sewage collection and disposal
facility meeting requirements of the State Water Quality Control Commission,
the State Department of Health and other applicable local government sewage
disposal requirements shall be installed and all building sewers and campground
sewers connected thereto.
      (2)   Solid and liquid wastes shall not be discharged or otherwise
disposed of on the surface of the ground or into any well, cave, open ditch,
stream, lake or reservoir.
   (d)   Sewage collection.
      (1)   Sewage collection lines shall be laid in trenches of sufficient
depth to be free of breakage from traffic, ground movement, agricultural
activity or other sources of damage, and shall be separated from the water
supply system by a horizontal distance of ten (10) feet and a vertical
elevation of two (2) feet below water lines at crossing points unless pressure
sewers are used.
      (2)   The sewer lines shall be constructed of approved materials with
adequate vents, watertight joints and sufficient cleanouts. All sewer lines
shall have a minimum diameter of six (6) inches, except that a sewer lateral
which serves no more than twenty-five (25) individual sewer connections for
individual camping vehicle lots or no more than five (5) toilet connections may
be four (4) inches in diameter.
      (3)   Sewers shall be installed at a grade of at least one-eighth (1/8)
inch per foot to ensure a velocity of two (2) feet per second when flowing
full. Horizontal drainage lines connecting with other horizontal drainage lines
shall enter through forty-five (45) degree "y" branches or other combinations
of equivalent sweep.
      (4)   Cleanouts or manholes shall be provided at the upper end of each
main sewer line, at intersections of two (2) or more sewer lines, changes in
grade or alignment of more than forty-five (45) degrees and at intervals of not
more than four hundred (400) feet.
      (5)   Individual sewer connections shall meet the following requirements:
A four (4) inch inside diameter sewer lateral and riser pipe with the
surrounding ground graded to drain from the rim of the riser pipe. The sewer
lateral shall be properly trapped and vented if camping vehicles without
individually trapped and vented plumbing fixtures are accommodated.
      (6)   Dependent camping vehicles with a drain hose less than three (3)
inches in diameter shall be connected with reducers and a screw or clamp-type
fittings.
      (7)   Drain outlets from independent camping vehicles shall be capped or
connected with a durable, readily cleanable, nonabsorbent, corrosion-resistant,
drain hose having an inside diameter of not less than three (3) inches. The
sewer service connection shall be installed and maintained with a grade not
less than one-quarter (1/4) inch per foot.
      (8)   When the campsite is not occupied, the sewer riser pipe shall be
adequately covered.
      (9)   A flushing sink or other means of disposal shall be provided for
disposal of liquid wastes from dependent camping vehicles, unless a sanitary
waste station is provided and is conveniently located. The flushing sink shall
be easily accessible and located at a distance of not more than three hundred
(300) feet from any campsite. The sinks shall not be located in a room
containing toilet, lavatory or bathing facilities and toilets shall not be used
for disposal of liquid wastes. Common-use faucets or hydrants and lavatories in
service buildings shall not be used for cleaning fish and food, and for washing
dishes, utensils, clothing or other articles of household use.
      (10)   A sanitary waste station shall be provided for each one hundred
(100) campsites or part thereof not equipped with individual sewer connections.
Unless other approved means are used, the sanitary station shall be designed
and constructed to include the following:
         a.   Easy ingress and egress from a service road for camping vehicles
and located not less than fifty (50) feet from a campsite.
         b.   Connection to the sewer system by a trapped four (4) inch sewer
riser pipe and vented not more than ten (10) feet downstream from the trap by a
four (4) inch vent, adequately supported and extending at least eight (8) feet
above the ground surface.
         c.   The sewage inlet surrounded by a curbed concrete apron or trough
of at least three (3) by three (3) feet, sloped to the inlet and provided with
a suitable hinged cover milled to fit tight.
         d.   A means for flushing the immediate area and a camping vehicle
holding tank shall be provided at each sanitary waste station. It shall consist
of a properly supported water riser pipe, terminating two (2) feet above the
ground with a three-quarter (3/4) inch valve outlet which shall be protected
against back siphonage and backflow by an approved vacuum breaker installation
located downstream from the shutoff valve.
         e.   A sign, constructed of durable material and not less than two (2)
feet square, posted adjacent to the water flushing outlet and inscribed with
the warning: UNSAFE WATER FACILITY.
      (11)   The plumbing shall be installed according to the most recent
edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code as adopted by the City of Creede.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-130.   Electricity and natural or propane gas.
   (a)   An electric outlet approved by an electric utility shall be provided
for each recreational vehicle space. The installation shall comply with all
state and local electrical codes. Such electrical outlets shall be
weatherproof.
   (b)   Street and yard lights shall be provided in such number and intensity
as to ensure safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night. A light
directed to the ground shall be located at each outside entrance of the service
buildings, which shall be kept lighted during hours of darkness.
   (c)   Where natural gas or propane is provided, the installation will comply
with all applicable state and local building code regulations.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-140.   Utility plans.
   Plans for water, sewer, electricity and natural gas or propane along with
letters of approval from the appropriate utility provider must be submitted to
the City for approval.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-150.   Refuse disposal.
   (a)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse shall be performed so
as to minimize accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, odors, insects, rodents,
bears or other nuisance conditions.
   (b)   Durable, watertight, easily cleanable refuse containers, sufficient to
contain all the refuse, shall be provided at each service building and sanitary
waste station, or at a central storage area readily accessible and located not
more than three hundred (300) feet from any campsite. Refuse containers shall
be provided at the rate of eight (8) cubic feet (60 gallons) for each five (5)
campsites. Individual trash cans at each recreational vehicle site may be
provided. All containers for refuse shall be covered with close fitting, fly
tight covers.
   (c)   Refuse shall be collected and removed from the premises as often as
necessary, but not less than once weekly and disposed of at a lawful disposal
site.
   (d)   No burning of refuse will be permitted at the recreational vehicle
park.
   (e)   Bear proof trash containers are required.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-160.   Insect and rodent control.
   Insects and domestic rodents shall be controlled by elimination of breeding
and harborage sources, proper sanitary practices, extermination, and vermin
proofing of buildings and other approved control methods.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-170.   Fire prevention and protection.
   (a)   All recreational vehicle parks shall comply with the current Fire Code
of the City.
   (b)   Hand fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Mineral County/
Creede Fire Protection District shall be maintained in effective working order
and located in convenient places in the ratio of one (1) to eight (8)
recreational vehicle spaces. The location of fire extinguishers must be
approved by the Fire Chief of the Mineral County/Creede Fire Protection
District.
   (c)   No outdoor fires will be allowed except in grills, ovens, stoves or
park-provided fire boxes. Park-provided boxes must be approved by the Mineral
County/Creede Fire Protection District. No open fires are allowed.
   (d)   Fire plugs shall be located so that every site within the park can be
reached with three hundred (300) feet of hose.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-180.   Sanitary facilities.
   (a)   Sanitary facilities shall be provided and installed in accordance with
the latest edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (b)   Required toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities shall be provided in
the following minimum numbers:
Campsites Toilets Urinals Lavatories Showers
          M F     M       M F        M F
Campsites Toilets Urinals Lavatories Showers
          M F     M       M F        M F
15        1 2     1       1 1        1 1
16 - 30   1 2     1       2 2        1 1
31 - 45   2 3     1       3 3        1 1
46 - 60   2 3     2       3 3        2 2
61 - 80   3 4     2       4 4        2 2
81 - 100  3 4     2       4 4        3 3
101 - 120 4 5     3       5 5        4 4
 
   (c)   At least one (1) toilet and shower facility shall be provided to
accommodate handicapped persons.
   (d)   No portable toilets will be allowed in recreational vehicle parks.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-190.   Service buildings.
   (a)   Service buildings shall be constructed of easily cleanable,
nonabsorbent materials, maintained in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition. They shall be conveniently located at a distance of not less than
ten (10) or more than four hundred (400) feet from any dependent camping
vehicle lot or persons served in a recreational area.
   (b)   Separate rooms containing required plumbing fixtures shall be provided
for each sex and clearly marked "men" and "women." If located in the same
building, they shall be separated by a solid, sound-resistant wall extending
from floor to ceiling. The entrances shall be so designed so that the plumbing
fixtures are not visible from the outside. A landing shall be provided beyond
each exterior door opening and shall have a width and length not less than the
door opening.
   (c)   The floors of service buildings shall have a smooth, impermeable and
easily cleaned surface, sloped to drain. Floor drains, properly trapped, shall
be provided in all shower baths and shower rooms to remove wastewater and to
facilitate cleaning. The walls and ceilings of such buildings shall be
finished, and the walls shall have a smooth, nonabsorbent, easily cleanable
surface extending to a height of four (4) feet in toilet rooms and six (6) feet
in shower rooms.
   (d)   Every service building shall have a minimum ceiling height of seven
and one-half (1/2) feet. In rooms with sloping ceilings, the required ceiling
height shall be provided in at least fifty (50%) percent of the room, and no
portion of any room having a ceiling height of less than six (6) feet shall be
considered as contributing to the minimum required areas.
   (e)   Every service building shall have at least one (1) window with direct
and unobstructed opening to the outside for natural light and ventilation,
unless other approved means of light and ventilation to the outside air are
provided.
   (f)   When necessary for exclusion of flies, mosquitoes and other insects,
all exterior openings of service buildings shall be protected with fly
screening of not less than sixteen (16) mesh per square inch, unless other
approved protective devices are provided.
   (g)   Every service building shall be provided with at least one (1)
ceiling-type light fixture, at least one (1) separate double convenience (GFCI)
[ground-fault circuit interrupter] outlet adjacent to the lavatories and a
light fixture at the outside entrance of the service building. All lights shall
have wall switches; no pull cords shall be allowed.
   (h)   Illumination levels of at least thirty (30) foot-candles shall be
maintained at lavatory mirrors and laundry room work areas, and at least five
(5) foot-candles shall be maintained for general seeing tasks and at the
service building entrance area.
   (i)   Service buildings shall be provided with approved heating facilities
which are properly installed, maintained in a safe working condition and
capable of maintaining a room temperature of sixty-eight (68) degrees
Fahrenheit.
   (j)   Toilets and showers shall be separately installed to be individually
accessible and to permit simultaneous use.
   (k)   Each toilet shall be individually partitioned with a door to ensure
privacy. The compartment shall be at least thirty (30) inches in width with at
least twenty-four (24) inches of clear space in front of a toilet. The dividing
partitions shall be at least five (5) feet in height with not less than six (6)
inches nor more than twelve (12) inches separating the partition bottom and the
floor. Toilets shall be provided with open-front seats.
   (l)   Each shower shall be individually partitioned with a curtain, screen
or door to afford privacy. Shower stalls shall not be less than thirty (30)
inches by thirty (30) inches in area and shall be constructed to prevent water
flow into the dressing room space. Shower floors shall be skid-resistant or
provided with disposable or with nonslip impervious mats. Wooden racks (dust
boards) over shower floors are prohibited. Where impervious mats are used, they
must be cleaned, dried and kept off the shower floor when not in use.
   (m)   Dressing room space, screened from view and at least 30 square foot
floor area, shall be provided adjacent to bathing facilities and equipped with
a bench and clothes hook.
   (n)   Hot and cold water under pressure shall be supplied to all required
plumbing fixtures, except that cold water only shall be supplied to toilets.
Tempered water may be delivered to showers and sinks to conserve heated water
and heating equipment. The system shall be designed to prevent discharge of
water in excess of one hundred twenty (120) degrees Fahrenheit at shower heads.
   (o)   Hot water heating facilities shall have the capacity to provide a
minimum of three (3) gallons of hot water (one hundred degrees (100) Fahrenheit
rise) per hour per each campsite during times of peak demands.
   (p)   Required plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order
and in clean and sanitary condition. Every service room containing sanitary
fixtures shall be provided with a wastebasket.
   (q)   Toilets shall be provided with a toilet paper holder or dispenser and
a supply of toilet paper and a covered receptacle, and lavatory areas shall be
provided with clothes hooks, shelves and trash receptacles.
   (r)   Service building construction shall conform to applicable provisions
of the International Building Code and existing local building codes, regarding
"Specifications for making buildings and facilities accessible to and useable
by physically handicapped."
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-200.   Safety.
   (a)   All electrical wiring, equipment and appurtenances shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with provisions of the National Electrical Code.
   (b)   Liquid petroleum gas, fuel oil, gasoline and other flammable liquids
shall be handled and used in a safe manner and shall not be stored inside or
beneath any camping vehicle or within five (5) feet of a door of a camping
vehicle.
   (c)   The grounds, buildings and related facilities shall be constructed,
maintained and used in accordance with applicable local and state fire
prevention regulations.
   (d)   Play equipment, when provided for children, shall be designed for
safety, maintained in good repair and located in areas free from hazards.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-210.   Miscellaneous regulations.
   (a)   Liquid petroleum tanks shall be limited to one (1), one hundred (100)
pound size per RV.
   (b)   Storage buildings, lean-tos, bins or other outside storage facilities
shall not be allowed at recreational vehicle sites.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-220.   Permanent occupancy prohibited.
   (a)   No recreational vehicle shall be used as a permanent place of abode,
dwelling or business or for indefinite periods of time. Continuous occupancy
extending beyond six (6) months in any twelve (12) month period shall be
presumed to be permanent occupancy.
   (b)   Any action toward removal of wheels of a recreational vehicle except
for temporary purposes of repair or to attach the trailer to the grounds for
stabilizing purposes is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-230.   Licensing and inspection.
   (a)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
recreational vehicle park within the limits of the City unless he or she holds
a valid recreational vehicle park license issued annually by the City in the
name of such person for the specific recreational vehicle park.
   (b)   Application for license and fee. Application for a recreational park
license shall be filed each calendar year with the City Clerk. Applications
shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Location and legal description of the recreational vehicle park;
      (3)   Complete plan drawn to scale showing all recreational vehicle lots,
structures, roads, walkways and other service facilities. Plans shall be filed
in subsequent years only if changes in the plan of the recreational vehicle
park are to be made;
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by City officials to
enable them to determine if the proposed recreational vehicle park will comply
with the requirements of this Article or other. applicable laws and ordinances;
and
      (5)   License fee: An annual license fee, of one hundred dollars ($100)
plus thirty dollars ($30) per recreational vehicle site shall be assessed
whether occupied or not. These fees shall be set by the Board of Trustees and
reviewed annually.
   (c)   License to be posted. The license certificate shall be conspicuously
posted in the office of the recreational vehicle park at all times.
   (d)   Registration. All recreational vehicles in the park must have a
current valid registration.
   (e)   Inspection. The Building Official shall inspect each recreational
vehicle park at least once annually to determine compliance with the provisions
of this Article and all other applicable ordinances, rules, regulations or
codes. Such official shall have the authority to enter upon the premises for
the purpose of such inspections at any reasonable time without notice to the
owner or manager.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-240.   Revocation of license.
   (a)   When it appears to any police officer, the Fire Chief, the Building
Inspector, or the health officers that any person holding a license under this
Article has violated or may have violated any of the provisions hereof, a
written notice shall be served on such licensee and/or recreational vehicle
park manager in person or by registered United States mail specifying the
manner in which it is believed he or she has violated or may have violated this
Article. Said notice shall require the owner and/or recreational park manager
to appear before the Board of Trustees at a time specified therein, not less
than ten (10) days after the service of said notice, and show cause why such
license should not be suspended or revoked.
   (b)   At such time, said licensee or recreational vehicle park manager and
member of the Fire, Police, or Building Departments of the City or the Mineral
County Health Department may produce such evidence as may be relevant to
determine whether the violation charged in the notice has been committed. If
the Board of Trustees finds from the evidence that such violation has not been
committed, it shall so advise the licensee and/or recreational vehicle park
manager and dismiss the charge. If the Board of Trustees finds from the
evidence that such violation has been committed, it shall so advise the
licensee or recreational vehicle park manager and may forthwith put said person
on probation for thirty (30) days. If the violation is not corrected within
such probationary period, the Board of Trustees may revoke or suspend the
license held by such person or continue the probation for such period and on
such conditions as it shall determine.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person whose license has been revoked or
suspended to operate, continue to operate or offer to operate any recreational
vehicle park after the date of such revocation or during the term of such
suspension, as the case may be.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-6-250.   Responsibilities of management.
   (a)   Enforcement of regulations. The owner or operator of any recreational
vehicle park shall arrange for the management and supervision of such
recreational vehicle park so as to enforce or cause compliance with the
provisions of this Article.
   (b)   Maintenance. The owner, operator or attendant of every recreational
vehicle park shall assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair
and condition all facilities of the recreational vehicle park as required
herein.
   (c)   Office. In every recreational vehicle park there shall be a designated
office building in which shall be located the office of the person in charge of
said park. A copy of all required City and state licenses and permits shall at
all times be kept in said office.
   (d)   Management duties. It shall be the duty of the attendant or person in
charge, together with the owner or operator, to:
      (1)   Keep at all times a register of all tenants (which shall be open at
all times to inspections by state, county and federal officers and officers of
the City) showing for all tenants:
         a.   Dates of entrance and departures;
         b.   License numbers of all recreational vehicles and or automobiles;
and
         c.   States issuing such license.
      (2)   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times.
      (3)   See that provisions of this Article are complied with and enforced
and report promptly to the proper authorities any violations of law which may
come to his or her attention.
      (4)   Report to local health authorities all cases known to the owner to
be infected with any communicable diseases.
      (5)   Pay promptly to the City all license fees required by City
ordinances or other laws.
      (6)   Prohibit the use of any recreational vehicle by a greater number of
occupants than that which it is designed to accommodate.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 7
Floodplain Damage Prevention Ordinance
Sec. 9-7-10.   Title and purpose.
   (a)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has, in C.R.S. Title
29, Article 20,, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Board
of Trustees does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations
as an emergency ordinance.
   (b)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Creede are subject to
periodic inundation, which can result in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of the public.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains that cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (c)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this Article to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to critical facilities, infrastructure and other
public facilities such as water, sewer and gas mains; electric and
communications stations; and streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is located
in a flood hazard area.
   (d)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this Article uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 459, 2025)
Sec. 9-7-20.   Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Article
shall be interpreted to give
them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this Article its most
reasonable application.    
   100-year flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a one-
percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any given year (one-
percent-annual-chance flood). The terms "one-hundred-year flood" and "one-
percent chance flood" are synonymous with the term "100-year flood." The term
does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every one hundred
years.
   100-year floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated as
a result of the occurrence of a one-hundred-year flood.
   500-year flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a two-
tenths-of-one-percent (0.2%) chance of being equaled or exceeded during any
given year (“0.2-percent-chance-annual flood”). The term does not imply that
the flood will necessarily happen once every five hundred years.
   500-year floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated as
a result of the occurrence of a five-hundred-year flood.
   Addition means any activity that expands the enclosed footprint or increases
the square footage of an existing structure.
   Alluvial fan flooding means a fan-shaped sediment deposit formed by a stream
that flows from a steep mountain valley or gorge onto a plain or the junction
of a tributary stream with the main stream. Alluvial fans contain active stream
channels and boulder bars, and recently abandoned channels. Alluvial fans are
predominantly formed by alluvial deposits and are modified by infrequent sheet
flood, channel avulsions and other stream processes.
   Area of shallow flooding means a designated Zone AO or AH on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one-percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   Base flood means the flood that has a one-percent (1%) chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year (also known as a 100-year flood). This
term is used in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) to indicate the
minimum level of flooding to be used by a community in its floodplain
management regulations.
   Base flood elevation (BFE) means the elevation shown on a FEMA Flood
Insurance Rate Map for Zones AE, AH. A1-A30, AR. AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AI-A30, AR/AH,
AR/AO, V1-V30 and VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from
a flood that has a one-percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level
in any given year.
   Basement means any area of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   Channel means the physical confine of stream or waterway consisting of a bed
and stream banks, existing in a variety of geometries.
   Channelization means the artificial creation, enlargement or realignment of
a stream channel.
   Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) means the codification of the general and
permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the executive departments
and agencies of the federal government. It is divided into fifty (50) titles
that represent broad areas subject to federal regulation.
   Community means any political subdivision in the State of Colorado that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations through
zoning, including, but not limited to, cities, towns, unincorporated areas in
the counties, Indian tribes and drainage and flood control districts.
   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) means FEMA's comment on a
proposed project, which
does not revise an effective floodplain map, that would, upon construction,
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodplain.
   Critical facility means a structure or related infrastructure, but not the
land on which it is situated, as specified in §
9-7-50(H), that, if flooded, may result in significant hazards to public health
and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the community at
any time before, during and after a flood. See §
9-7-50(H).
   Development means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
   DFIRM database means a database (usually spreadsheets containing data and
analyses) that accompanies a DFIRM. The FEMA Mapping Specifications and
Guidelines outline requirements for the development and maintenance of DFIRM
databases.
   Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM) means a FEMA digital floodplain
map. These digital maps serve as “regulatory floodplain maps” for insurance and
floodplain management purposes.
   Elevated building means a non-basement building:
      (1)   Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground level
by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the
flow of the water; and
      (2)   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
      In the case of Zones A1 -30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, elevated
building also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls, with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   Federal Register means the official daily publication for rules, proposed
rules, and notices of federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive
orders and other presidential documents.
   FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the agency responsible
for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   Flood control structure means a physical structure designed and built
expressly or partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting or guiding
flood flows along a particular waterway. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of water from channels and reservoir spillways;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source; or
      (3)   Mudslides or mudflows that occur from excess surface water that is
combined with mud or other debris that is sufficiently fluid so as to flow over
the surface of normally dry land areas (such as earth carried by a current of
water and deposited along the path of the current).
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special
flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS) means the official report provided by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The report contains the Flood Insurance
Rate Map as well as flood profiles for studied flooding sources that can be
used to determine base flood elevations for some areas.
   Floodplain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to being
inundated as the result of a flood, including the area of land over which
floodwater would flow from the spillway of a reservoir.
   Floodplain Administrator means the community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   Floodplain development permit means a permit required before construction or
development begins within any special flood hazard area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require permits for
all proposed construction or other development in the community, including the
placement of manufactured homes, so that it may determine whether such
construction or other development is proposed within flood-prone areas. Permits
are required to ensure that proposed development projects meet the requirements
of the NFIP and this Article.
   Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and
floodplain management regulations.
   Floodplain management regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, that provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   Floodproofing means any combination of structural and/or non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   Floodway (regulatory floodway) means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge
the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than a designated height. The Colorado statewide standard for the designated
height to be used for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half (½) foot (six
(6) inches). Letters of Map Revision to existing floodway delineations may
continue to use the floodway criteria in place at the time of the existing
floodway delineation.
   Freeboard means the vertical distance in feet above a predicted water
surface elevation intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood, such as debris blockage of bridge
openings and increased runoff due to the urbanization of the watershed.
   Functionally dependent use means a use that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The
term includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for
the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship
repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
   Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   Historic structure means any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs that have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         a.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         b.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) means FEMA’s official revision of an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA).
   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA’s modification of
the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM), based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory
floodway.
   Levee means a man-made embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed
in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert
the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a
levee structure to be reflected on the FEMA FIRMs as providing flood
protection, the levee structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 CFR
65.10.
   Levee system means a flood protection system that consists of a levee or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, that
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). Any floor used for living purposes that includes working, storage,
sleeping, cooking and eating, recreation, or any combination thereof. This
includes any floor that could be converted to such a use such as a basement or
crawl space. The lowest floor is a determinate for the flood insurance premium
for a building, home or business. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure,
usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor;
provided that the enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of §60.3 of the
National Flood insurance Program regulations.
   Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one (1) or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) means a form with data regarding the
properties of a particular substance. An important component of product
stewardship and workplace safety, it is intended to
provide workers and emergency personnel with procedures for handling or working
with that substance in a safe manner, and includes information such as physical
data (melting point, boiling point, flash point, and the like), toxicity,
health effects, first aid. reactivity, storage, disposal, protective equipment
and spill-handling procedures.
   Mean sea level means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) means FEMA’s program of flood
insurance coverage and floodplain management administered in conjunction with
the Robert T. Stafford Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. The NFIP has
applicable federal regulations promulgated in Title 44 of the Code of Federal
Regulations. The U.S. Congress established the NFIP in 1968 with the passage of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968.
   New construction means the construction of a new structure (including the
placement of a mobile home) or facility, or the replacement of a structure or
facility that has been totally destroyed.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   No-rise certification means a record of the results of an engineering
analysis conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights
in a floodway. A no-rise certification must be supported by technical data and
signed by a professional engineer registered in Colorado. The supporting
technical data should be based on the standard step-backwater computer model
used to develop the 100-year floodway shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM).
   Physical Map Revision (PMR) means FEMA’s action whereby one (1) or more map
panels are physically revised and republished. A PMR is used to change flood
risk zones, floodplain and/or floodway delineations, flood elevations and/or
planimetric features.
   Recreational vehicle means a vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less, when measured at the
largest horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   Special flood hazard area means the land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one-percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any
given year, i.e., the 100-year floodplain.
   Start of construction means the date the building permit was issued,
including substantial improvements, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds, not
occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
just prior to when the damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. The value of the structure shall be determined
by the local jurisdiction having land use authority in the area of interest.
This includes structures that have incurred substantial damage, regardless of
the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
that have been identified by the local code enforcement official and that are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude its continued designation as a historic structure.
   Threshold planning quantity (TPQ) means a quantity designated for each
chemical on the list of extremely hazardous substances that triggers
notification by facilities to the state that they are subject to emergency
planning requirements.
   Variance means a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this
Article when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this Article. (For full requirements, see §60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations).
   Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such
time as that documentation is provided.
   Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 459, 2025)
Sec. 9-7-30. General provisions.
   (a)   Lands to which this Article applies. This Article shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas and areas removed from the floodplain by the
issuance of a FEMA Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) within the
jurisdiction of the City.
   (b)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for
Mineral County, Colorado and Incorporated Area," dated July 8, 2025, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps
(FIRM and/or FBFM), and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this Article. These special flood hazard areas
identified by the FIS and attendant mapping are the minimum area of
applicability of this Article and may be supplemented by studies designated and
approved by the Board of Trustees. The Floodplain Administrator shall keep a
copy of the Flood Insurance Study (FIS), DFIRMs, FIRMs and/or FBFMs on file and
available for public inspection.
   (c)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
of this Article.
   (d)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered
or have its use changed within the special flood hazard area without full
compliance with the terms of this Article and other applicable regulations.
Nothing herein shall prevent the Board of Trustees from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. These regulations
meet the minimum requirements as set forth by the Colorado Water Conservation
Board and the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (e)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This Article is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this Article and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (f)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this Article,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (g)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this Article is considered a reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-
made or natural causes. This Article does not imply that land outside the
special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free
from flooding or flood damages. This Article shall not create liability on the
part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this Article or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   (h)   Severability. This Article and the various parts thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. Should any section of this Article be declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the Article as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the
section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 459, 2025)
Sec. 9-7-40.   Applicability.
   The flood damage prevention regulations of this Article shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards (ASFH) within the jurisdiction of Creede. The
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) serves as the basis for establishing the ASFH and is adopted by
reference. The most recent version of the FIRM received by the City is on file
with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016; Ord. 398 §2, 2016)
Sec. 9-7-50.   Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
   (a)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      (1)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (4)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (5)   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces;
      (6)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (b)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation data has been provided as set forth in (i) §
9-7-30(b), (ii) §
9-7-40(b)(7) or (iii) §
9-7-50(g), the following provisions are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork) elevated to one (1)
foot above the base flood elevation. Upon completion of the structure, the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor registered in Colorado. The
certification shall be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         a.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in §9-7-50
(h), new construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork)
elevated to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall be designed so that at one (1)
foot above the base flood elevation the structure is watertight, with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   A professional engineer or architect registered in Colorado shall
develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are
in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
Subsection. The certification shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator, as proposed in §9-7-40(c).
      (3)   Enclosures.
         a.   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement, and
which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters.
         b.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect registered in Colorado, or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
            i.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (4)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites (i) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home, electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities (including
ductwork) are elevated to one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, and
shall be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within Zones A1-30, AH and
AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of Subsection
(a), shall be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork) are one (1) foot above the base flood
elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade, and are securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles.
         a.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones Al-30, AH
and AE on the community's FIRM shall either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements of §
9-7-40(c), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in Subsection(b)(4) of this Section.
         b.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect-type
utilities and security devices, and it has no permanently attached additions.
      (6)   Prior approved activities. Any activity for which a floodplain
development permit was issued by the City or a CLOMR was issued by FEMA prior
to June 3, 2025, may be completed according to the standards in place at the
time of the permit or CLOMR issuance, and will not be considered in violation
of this Article if it meets such standards.
   (c)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones). Located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
9-7-30(b) are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions
apply.
      (1)   Residential construction. All new construction and substantial
improvements of residential structures must have the lowest floor (including
basement), electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities (including ductwork) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least one (1) foot above the depth number specified
in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least three (3) feet if no depth number is
specified). Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor, including basement, shall be certified by a professional engineer,
architect or land surveyor registered in Colorado. The certification shall be
submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction.
         a.   With the exception of critical facilities, outlined in §
9-7-50(h), all new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures, must have the lowest floor (including basement), electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities (including ductwork) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
least one (1) foot above the depth number specified in feet on the community's
FIRM (at least three (3) feet if no depth number is specified), or, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
shall be designed so that the structure is watertight to at least one (1) foot
above the base flood level, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water, and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A professional
engineer or architect registered in Colorado shall submit a certification to
the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this Section, as proposed in
§
9-7-40(c) are satisfied.
         b.   Within Zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes are required to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (d)   Floodways. Floodways are administrative limits and tools used to
regulate existing and future floodplain development. The State of Colorado has
adopted floodway standards that are more stringent than the FEMA minimum
standard (see definition of “floodway” in §
9-7-20). Located within special flood hazard areas established in §
9-7-30(b) are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway, unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed by a professional engineer licensed in Colorado, and in
accordance with standard engineering practice, that the proposed encroachment
would not result in any increase (requires a no-rise certification) in flood
levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If §
9-7-50(d)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of §
9-7-50.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Ch. 1, §65.12, of the National Flood
Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations,
provided that the community first applies for a CLOMR and floodway revision
through FEMA.
   (E)   Alteration of a watercourse. For all proposed developments that alter
a watercourse within a special flood hazard area, the following standards
apply.
      (1)   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall appropriately
consider issues of sediment transport, erosion, deposition and channel
migration, and properly mitigate potential problems through the project as well
as upstream and downstream of any improvement activity. A detailed analysis of
sediment transport and overall channel stability should be considered, when
appropriate, to assist in determining the most appropriate design.
      (2)   Channelization and flow diversion projects shall evaluate the
residual 100-year floodplain.
      (3)   Any channelization or other stream alteration activity proposed by
a project proponent must be evaluated for its impact on the regulatory
floodplain, and must be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local floodplain rules, regulations and ordinances.
      (4)   Any stream alteration activity shall be designed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in Colorado or certified professional
hydrologist.
      (5)   All activities within the regulatory floodplain shall meet all
applicable federal, state and the city floodplain requirements and regulations.
      (6)   Within the regulatory floodway, stream alteration activities shall
not be constructed unless the project proponent demonstrates through a floodway
analysis and report, sealed by a professional engineer registered in Colorado,
that there is not more than a zero (0.00)-foot rise in the proposed conditions
compared to existing conditions floodway resulting from the project, otherwise
known as a no-rise
certification, unless the community first applies for a CLOMR and floodway
revision in accordance with §
9-7-40.
      (7)   Maintenance shall be required for any altered or relocated portions
of watercourses so that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished.
   (f)   Properties removed from the floodplain by fill. A floodplain
development permit shall not be issued for the construction of a new structure
or addition to an existing structure on a property removed from the floodplain
by the issuance of a FEMA Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), unless
the new structure or addition complies with the following.
      (1)   Residential construction. The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one (1) foot
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. The lowest floor (including basement),
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities (including ductwork) must be elevated to one (1) foot
above the base flood elevation that existed prior to the placement of fill, or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, must be designed so
that the structure or addition is watertight to at least one (1) foot above the
base flood level that existed prior to the placement of fill, with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy.
   (g)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
subdivision or other development proposal is in a flood-prone area, the
proposal shall minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §
9-7-30(c) and §
9-7-40(c), and the provisions of §
9-7-50.
      (3)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development, including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions that are greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is least, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
9-7-30(b) or §
9-7-40(b).
      (4)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
   (h)   Standards for critical facilities. A critical facility is a structure
or related infrastructure, but not the land on which it is situated, as
specified in Rule 6 of the Rules and Regulations for Regulatory Floodplains in
Colorado, that if flooded may result in significant hazards to public health
and safety, or interrupt essential services and operations for the community at
any time before, during and after a flood.
      (1)   Classification of critical facilities. It is the responsibility of
the Board of Trustees to identify and confirm that specific structures in their
community meet the following criteria. Critical facilities are classified under
the following categories: essential services; hazardous materials; at-risk
populations; and vital to restoring normal services.
         a.   Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency
response, emergency medical, designated emergency shelters, communications,
public utility plant facilities, and transportation lifelines.
            1.   These facilities consist of:
               A.    Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations,
emergency vehicle and equipment storage, and, emergency operation centers);
               B.    Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers,
urgent care centers having emergency treatment functions, and non-ambulatory
surgical structures, but excluding clinics, doctors offices, and non-urgent
care medical structures that do not provide these functions);
               C.    Designated emergency shelters;
               D.    Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting
equipment for cable systems, satellite dish systems, cellular systems,
television, radio, and other emergency warning systems, but excluding towers,
poles, lines, cables and conduits);
               E.    Public utility plant facilities for generation and
distribution (hubs, treatment plants, substations and pumping stations for
water, power and gas, but not including towers, poles, power lines, buried
pipelines, transmission, distribution and service lines); and
               F.   Air transportation lifelines (airports (municipal and
larger), helicopter pads and structures serving emergency functions, and
associated infrastructure (aviation control towers, air traffic control
centers, and emergency equipment aircraft hangars)).
            2.   Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater
treatment plants (WWTPs), non-potable water treatment and distribution systems,
and hydroelectric power generating plants and related appurtenances.
            3.   Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Board of Trustees that the facility is
an element of a redundant system for which service will not be interrupted
during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant
facilities are available (either owned by the same utility or available through
an intergovernmental agreement or other contract) and connected, the
alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or
are compliant with the provisions of this Article, and an operations plan is in
effect that states how redundant systems will provide service to the affected
area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be provided
to the Board of Trustees on an as-needed basis upon request.
         b.   Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce or
store highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive
materials.
            1.   These facilities may include:
               A.    Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant,
pharmaceutical manufacturing);
               B.    Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable,
explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials;
               C.    Refineries;
               D.    Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and
               E.    Aboveground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.
            2.   Facilities shall be determined to be critical facilities if
they produce or store materials in excess of threshold limits. If the owner of
a facility is required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) to keep a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) on file for any chemicals
stored or used in the work place, and the chemical(s) is stored in quantities
equal to or greater than the threshold planning quantity (TPQ) for that
chemical, then that
facility shall be considered to be a critical facility. The TPQ for these
chemicals is: either five hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed (whichever is
lower) for the three hundred fifty-six (356) chemicals listed under 40 CFR 302
(2010), also known as extremely hazardous substances (EHS); or ten thousand
(10,000) pounds for any other chemical. This threshold is consistent with the
requirements for reportable chemicals established by the Colorado Department of
Health and Environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can be found in 29 CFR §
1910 (2010). The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulation “Designation,
Reportable Quantities, and Notification,” 40 CFR 302 (2010), and OSHA
regulation “Occupational Safety and Health Standards,” 29 CFR 1910 (2010), are
incorporated herein by reference and include the regulations in existence at
the time of the promulgation this Article, but exclude later amendments to or
editions of the regulations.
            3.   Specific exemptions to this category include:
               A.    Finished consumer products within retail centers and
households containing hazardous materials intended for household use, and
agricultural products intended for agricultural use;
               B.    Buildings and other structures containing hazardous
materials for which it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local
authority having jurisdiction by hazard assessment and certification by a
qualified professional (as determined by the local jurisdiction having land use
authority) that a release of the subject hazardous material does not pose a
major threat to the public;
               C.    Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage and distribution
centers that do not manufacture pharmaceutical products.
            4.   These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other
structures that also function as critical facilities under another category
outlined in this Article.
         c.   At-risk population facilities include medical care, congregate
care and schools. These facilities consist of:
            1.   Elder care (nursing homes);
            2.   Congregate care serving 12 or more individuals (day care and
assisted living);
            3.   Public and private schools (pre-schools, K-12 schools),
before-school and after-school care serving 12 or more children..
         d.+   Facilities vital to restoring normal services including
government operations.
            1.   These facilities consist of:
               A.    Essential government operations (public records, courts,
jails, building permitting and inspection services, community administration
and management, maintenance and equipment centers);
               B.    Essential structures for public colleges and universities
(dormitories, offices and classrooms only).
            2.   These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to the
Board of Trustees that the facility is an element of a redundant system for
which service will not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be
demonstrated that redundant facilities are available (either owned by the same
entity or available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract),
the alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year
floodplain or are compliant with this Article, and an operations plan is in
effect that states how redundant facilities will provide service to the
affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be
provided to the Board of Trustees on an as-needed basis upon request.
      (2)   Protection for critical facilities. All new and substantially
improved critical facilities and new
additions to critical facilities located within the special flood hazard area
shall be regulated to a higher standard than structures not determined to be
critical facilities. For the purposes of this Article, protection shall include
one (1) of the following:
         a.   Location outside the special flood hazard area; or
         b.   Elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing of the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, to at least two (2)
feet above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Ingress and egress for new critical facilities. New critical
facilities shall, when practicable as determined by the Board of Trustees, have
continuous non-inundated access (ingress and egress for evacuation and
emergency services) during a l00-year flood event.
(Ord. 459, 2025)
ARTICLE 8
Annexation and Disconnection Procedures
Sec. 9-8-10.   Purpose.
   (a)   The City of Creede acknowledges the applicability of the Colorado
Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, C.R.S. §31-12-101 et seq., for annexations to
the City of Creede except to the extent otherwise permitted by law.
   (b)   This Article is intended to implement and supplement the Colorado
Municipal Annexation Act of 1965 and shall be liberally construed for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To encourage a natural and well-ordered development of the City;
      (2)   To distribute fairly and equitably the costs of municipal services
among those persons who benefit from such services;
      (3)   To extend municipal government, services, and facilities to
eligible areas which form a part of the whole community;
      (4)   To simplify governmental structure in urban areas;
      (5)   To provide an orderly system for extending municipal regulations to
newly annexed areas;
      (6)   To reduce friction among contiguous or neighboring municipalities;
      (7)   To increase the ability of municipalities in urban areas to provide
their citizens with the services they require; and
      (8)   To exercise to the greatest extent possible the City's powers
conferred to the City as a statutory town under Title 31 Colorado Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-20.   Definitions.
   The meaning of words and phrases contained in this Article shall have the
meanings ascribed to them by C.R.S. §31-12-103, unless the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-30.   Three mile plan.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, no annexation may take
place that would have the effect of extending the City's municipal boundary
more than three miles in any direction from any point of such municipal
boundary in any one year. Within the three-mile area, the contiguity required
by C.R.S. §31-12-104(1)(a), may be achieved by annexing a platted street or
alley, a public or private right-of-way, a public or private transportation
right-of-way or area, or a lake, reservoir, stream, or other natural or
artificial waterway. Such three-mile limit may be exceeded if such limit would
have the effect of dividing a parcel of property held in identical ownership if
at least fifty (50%) percent of the property is within the three-mile limit. In
such event, the entire property held in identical ownership may be annexed in
any one (1) year without regard to such mileage limitation.
   (b)   The City of Creede Comprehensive Plan shall serve as and shall
constitute the "plan in place" referenced in C.R.S. §31-12-105(1)(e), unless a
different plan, supplement, or revision is expressly adopted to serve as a plan
in place. The plan in place may also be commonly referred to as the "three-mile
plan" and such plan shall be deemed automatically updated annually on January 1
of each year without further action by the City unless a change or modification
is necessary and is adopted by resolution or ordinance by the Board of
Trustees. The absence of a specific reference in such plan to a particular
parcel of land proposed for annexation shall not be interpreted as a statement
of intent to not annex such parcel of land; it is the plan and intent of the
Board of Trustees to evaluate and to consider for potential annexation all
property within three miles of the City's then existing municipal boundaries
upon submission of a petition or as otherwise permitted by this Article and the
Colorado Municipal Annexation Act of 1965. The absence in the plan of a
specific reference to any character or extent of streets, subways, bridges,
waterways, waterfronts, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields,
other public ways, grounds, open spaces, public utilities, and terminals for
water, light, sanitation, transportation, and power to be provided by the City
and the proposed land uses for the area shall not be interpreted as a failure
to comply with C.R.S. §31-12-105(1)(e), but shall be interpreted as a plan by
the City to determine the appropriate character or extent of land uses and
services through the City's applicable processes of annexation, planning, and
development approvals on a case by case basis. The plan in place may also be
amended or modified to more specifically identify the character or extent of
land uses and services at any time or contemporaneously with any annexation.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-40.   Fees and charges for annexation petitions.
   (a)   The City Manager may administratively establish and modify as needed
an application fee for the processing of an annexation petition. In setting
such fee, the City Manager shall consider the costs incurred by the City in
reviewing and processing the annexation and obtaining necessary data, studies,
and reports. No petition shall be processed unless accompanied by the
applicable application fee and such petition shall be deemed incomplete until
such fee is paid in full.
   (b)   The City may require as a condition of annexation the payment of
additional amounts by the petitioners or others deemed necessary, beneficial,
or advantageous by the City, including but not limited to payments to offset
anticipated costs or expenses of providing services to the annexed property or
residents of the annexed area, mitigate anticipated impacts to the annexed area
or to surrounding lands, to upgrade infrastructure within the City or to defray
any costs or expenses of the City.
   (c)   The City may waive all or any portion of a fee or charge for
annexation where the Board of Trustees administratively finds in its sole
discretion that the proposed annexation will provide substantial benefits or
advance important economic or other goals and objectives of the City.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-50.   Annexed property subject to all laws.
   Unless otherwise provided by an agreement governing the annexation of
property into the City of Creede, the ordinances, resolutions, rules, and
regulations of the City of Creede shall remain fully valid and effective as to
any property annexed into the City of Creede.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-60.   Annexation agreements.
   (a)   The City is authorized to enter into one or more agreements with
property owners memorializing understandings of the landowner and the City and/
or imposing terms, conditions, obligations, and rights upon annexation mutually
acceptable to the parties. An annexation agreement is not required as a
condition of all annexations. Nothing contained in such agreement shall
supersede any provision of any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of
the City of Creede unless:
      (1)   Such agreement explicitly identifies a provision of an ordinance,
resolution, or rule of the City of Creede intended to be superseded by the
agreement; or
      (2)   A provision of such agreement directly and irreconcilably conflicts
with obligations and rights of the parties otherwise made applicable by a
provision of an ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of the City of
Creede.
   (b)   Annexation agreements shall be approved by ordinance.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-70.   Non-resident petitions for annexation election authorized.
   (a)   The City of Creede hereby supplements the Colorado Municipal
Annexation Act of 1965 by the addition of another method or means to petition
for an annexation election in addition to petitions signed by registered
electors as permitted by C.R.S. §31-12-107(2). Such additional method or means
shall authorize and entitle owners of non-residential property to petition for
an annexation election which petition shall be processed and considered in the
same manner and under the same procedures as resident landowner petitions filed
pursuant to C.R.S. §31-12-107(2), except that any requirement that petitions be
signed by resident landowners or eligible electors shall not apply to such
petition.
   (b)   A non-resident petition for annexation election shall meet or satisfy
the following requirements:
      (1)   The petition shall propose annexation of property zoned and used
for non-residential use only;
      (2)   The petition shall propose annexation of not less than three (3)
subdivided or legally recognized and contiguous lots or parcels not held in
identical ownership;
      (3)   The petition shall not propose for annexation property eligible for
annexation without petition as an enclave pursuant to C.R.S. §31-12-106;
      (4)   The petition shall be signed by the owners of record of more than
one-half (1/2) of the total number of lots or parcels proposing annexation
regardless of the percentages of land area owned by such owners;
      (5)   The petition shall be filed with the office of the City Clerk of
the City of Creede; and
      (6)   The petition shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of
subsection (1) of C.R.S. §31-12-107; except that:
         a.   Rather than an allegation that any certain percentage of total
land area is owned by the petitioners, the petition shall contain an allegation
that the signers of the petition are the record owners of land in the area
proposed to be annexed;
         b.   The petition shall identify the lot or parcel owned by each
petitioning owner and identify the other lots or parcels owned by others not
parties to the petition; and
         c.   The petition shall request that the City commence proceedings for
the holding of an annexation election.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-80.   Annexation election procedures.
   Following a finding by the Board of Trustees that the petition filed is in
substantial compliance with this Article and applicable provisions of the
Colorado Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, the Board of Trustees shall cause an
election in accordance with C.R.S. §31-12-112.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-90.   Disconnection purpose and applicability.
   This Article is also intended to provide for policies and procedures for the
disconnection of lands from the municipal boundaries of the City of Creede.
This Article shall be liberally construed for the following purposes:
   (a)   To create logical, uniform, and identifiable boundaries for the City;
   (b)   To best organize and manage lands within the City to ensure efficient
and cost effective delivery of municipal services;
   (c)   To reasonably demarcate the locations at which the City's
responsibility for the delivery of municipal services begin and end as a means
of reducing confusion among the citizens and to provide for reasonable City
identity; and
   (d)   To distribute fairly and equitably the costs of City services among
those persons who most directly use City resources and most directly benefit
from such services.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-100.   Method of petition for disconnection.
   Proceedings for disconnection may be initiated only by petition of the Board
of Trustees. Disconnection is a legislative act and the Board of Trustees shall
exercise its sole discretion in the disconnection of land.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-110.   Petition for disconnection by Board of Trustees.
   A petition for disconnection shall meet or satisfy the following
requirements:
   (a)   The petition shall propose disconnection of land contiguous to the
border or boundaries of the City of Creede;
   (b)   Where land proposed for disconnection is not owned or controlled by
the City of Creede, the written consent of the owner of record shall be
required as a condition of disconnection; and
   (c)   The petition shall be signed by a majority of the members of the Board
of Trustees and shall state the reason or reasons justifying the proposed
disconnection.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-120.   Processing of disconnection petitions.
   (a)   Following submission of a completed petition from the Board of
Trustees, the City Clerk shall cause to be published a notice of a public
meeting at which the Board of Trustees shall consider such petition and
determine whether such disconnection should be approved. Notice shall be
published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public meeting. Persons
interested in such disconnection may submit written comments and such comments
shall be provided to the Board of Trustees if received by the City at or prior
to the meeting. The Board of Trustees may, at its discretion, accept comments
at the public meeting from interested parties.
   (b)   Approval of any disconnection shall be made by ordinance. No
disconnection shall be approved by emergency ordinance.
   (c)   Following approval of an ordinance disconnecting land from the City,
the City Clerk shall cause to be mailed or otherwise delivered the following:
      (1)   Two (2) certified copies of the disconnection ordinance to the
county clerk and recorder of the county in which the disconnected property
lies, together with instruction to the county clerk to file one (1) copy with
the Colorado division of local government in the department of local affairs
pursuant to C.R.S. §24-32-109.
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance to the County Assessor of the county in
which the disconnected property lies.
      (3)   A copy of the ordinance to the County Surveyor of the county in
which the disconnected property lies.
      (4)   A certified copy of the ordinance to the Colorado division of local
government in the department of local affairs.
   (d)   Mailing of the disconnection ordinance shall not be a pre-condition to
the effective date of the ordinance or the disconnection of the property
described in the disconnection ordinance.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-130.   Standards for approval of disconnection.
   Approval of disconnection shall require a finding by the Board of Trustees
that:
   (a)   The petition for disconnection meets the requirements of this Article;
and
   (b)   The disconnection is in the best interests of the citizens of the City
of Creede.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
Sec. 9-8-140.   Lands subject to tax for prior indebtedness.
   Land disconnected in accordance with this Article shall not be exempt from
the payment of any taxes lawfully assessed against it for the purpose of paying
any indebtedness lawfully contracted by the Board of Trustees while such land
was within the limits of the City and which remains unpaid and for the payment
of which said land could be lawfully taxed.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
ARTICLE 9
Definitions
Sec. 9-9-10.   Definitions.
   The terms in this Section shall be defined as stated in this Section. The
rules of interpretation stated in §
9-1-40, Interpretation, shall apply to the interpretation and application of
the definitions in this Section.
   Access means the place, means, or way by which pedestrians and vehicles
shall have adequate, usable and legal ingress and egress to property, use or
parking space.
   Access grade means the slope of a road, street, driveway, or other means of
access, as measured from the edge of the asphalt or roadway along the
centerline of the means of access.
   Accessory building means a subordinate building or structure, the use of
which is customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use
of the land, which is located on the same lot (or on a contiguous lot in the
same ownership) with the main building or use. Accessory buildings are only
permitted when they are incidental or accessory to an existing and permitted
principal or conditional use.
   Accessory dwelling means an apartment integrated within a single-family
dwelling, or located in a detached accessory building, such as carriage houses
or agricultural-type outbuildings, located on the same lot as single-family
dwellings. Accessory dwellings shall be limited to eight hundred fifty (850)
square feet in floor area. For purposes of calculating residential density,
each accessory dwelling shall count as one-half (1/2) dwelling unit. There
shall not be more than one (1) accessory dwelling located on a lot in addition
to the single-family dwelling.
   Accessory structure means a subordinate building or use that is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such
building or main use.
   Accessory use means a subordinate use, clearly incidental and related to the
main structure, building, or use of land, and located on the same lot (or on a
contiguous lot in the same ownership) as that of the main structure, building
or use.
   Adjacent means meeting or touching at some point, or separated from a lot or
parcel by one of the following: a street, alley, or other right-of-way, lake,
stream or open space.
   Agricultural activity shall mean farming, including plowing, tillage,
cropping, utilization of best management practices, seeding, cultivating or
harvesting for the production of food and fiber products (except commercial
logging and timber harvesting operations); the grazing or raising of livestock
(except in feedlots); aquaculture; sod production; orchards; Christmas tree
plantations; nurseries; and the cultivation of products as part of a recognized
commercial enterprise.
   Alley means a minor or secondary way which is used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   Alteration means any change, addition or modification in construction,
structure, occupancy or use; or, any change in the exterior materials or design
which is inconsistent with an approved design.
   Animal boarding means the operation of an establishment in which
domesticated animals other than household pets are housed, groomed, bred,
boarded, trained or sold. This term shall not include the operation of a
kennel.
   Annual high water mark means the visible line on the edge or a river,
stream, lake, pond, spring or seep up to which the presence and action of water
are so usual and long conditions (with a recurrence interval of one (1) year or
less) so as to create a distinct character with respect to vegetation and the
nature of the soil.
   Applicant means an owner of real property, the owner's representative, or
owner of an option to acquire the property or portion thereof, who is
authorized to represent and/or act upon any application or submittal.
   Appurtenances are the visible, functional, or ornamental objects accessory
to and part of a building.
   Architectural projection means a non-habitable building element, including
but not limited to chimneys, cupolas, towers, and steeples, which physically
projects beyond the plane of a required limitation (i.e., height).
   Basement means the definition of basement as set forth in the most recent
version of the International Building Code adopted by the City of Creede.
   Bed and Breakfast means an establishment operated in a private residence or
portion thereof, which provides temporary accommodations to overnight guests
for a fee and which is occupied by the operator of such establishment.
   Berm means a mound of earth used to screen or separate one area from another
to reduce visual, noise and similar impacts of development. Berm may also mean
the act of pushing earth into a mound.
   Best management practice (BMP) means schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States. BMPs also
include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practice to control
plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from
raw material storage.
   Block means a unit of land, or a group of lots, bounded by streets or by a
combination of streets and public lands, or other rights-of-way other than an
alley, waterways or any barrier to the continuity of development or land which
is designated as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
   Block diversity plan means a plan provided by an applicant which
demonstrates the mix of housing models and styles offered within a neighborhood
and within each block face.
   Boarding and rooming house means a building or portion of which is used to
accommodate, for compensation, four (4) or more boarders or roomers, not
including members of the occupant's immediate family who might be occupying
such building. The word compensation shall include compensation in money,
services or other things of value.
   Board of Trustees means the governing board of the City of Creede.
   Buildable area means the area of any site, lot, parcel or any portion
thereof which does not contain land under water, public rights-of-way, areas in
excess of forty percent (40%) slope, or other constraints which restrict the
physical ability or legal right to build on the property.
   Building means any permanent structure built for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, which is permanently
affixed to the land and has one (1) or more floors and a roof.
   Building Code means the building codes adopted in Chapter 18 of the Creede
Municipal Code, as may be amended.
   Building height means the distance measured vertically from the existing
grade or finished grade (whichever is more restrictive) at any given point
outside the building to the top of a flat roof, mansard roof or sloping roof.
Within a building, height shall be measured vertically from any point on a flat
roof, mansard roof or sloping roof to the existing grade or finished grade
directly below said point.
[Image]
 
[Image]
 
   Carport means a structure attached or made a part of the main structure, and
that is open to the outside on at least two (2) sides for the purpose of
sheltering motor-driven vehicles used by occupants of the main structure.
   Cash-in-lieu (also known as "fee-in-lieu") means that the payment of funds
to the City instead of the dedication of real property interest when the Board
of Trustees determines that the dedication of real property interest is not
practical or as beneficial as payment of cash-in-lieu of land dedication.
Payment of cash-in-lieu shall comply with the following requirements unless
otherwise provided for by this Development Code:
      (1)   Payment shall be based on the fair market value of the entire
property based on the per square foot value of the property with the requested
development approval that requires dedication of land or cash-in-lieu.
      (2)   The value of the land shall be based upon an amount negotiated
between the City and the applicant taking into consideration sales of
comparable properties. In the event that the City and the applicant are not
able to negotiate a mutually acceptable per square foot value for cash-in-lieu
of dedication of land, the applicant shall provide an appraisal to the City at
the applicant's cost for consideration by the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Trustees may accept the applicant's proposed appraised value or may reject the
applicant's proposed appraised value and commission an independent appraisal
which shall be paid by the applicant. The Board of Trustees shall then use
appraised value as set forth by the appraisal commission by the City.
      (3)   Combination of dedication and cash-in-lieu:
         a.   The applicant, at the option of the Board of Trustees, may meet
the dedication requirements through a combination of cash-in-lieu and land
dedication in those cases where a portion of the dedication of land is not
desired.
         b.   The value of the combination of both the land dedication and the
cash-in-lieu of land shall not exceed the full market value of the total
required dedication of sites and land areas.
   Cemetery means land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead
and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with, and within the boundaries of, such cemetery.
   Child care center means a facility, by whatever name known, which is
maintained for the whole or part of a day for the care of five (5) or more
children under the age of sixteen (16) years who are not related to the owner,
operator or manager, whether such facility is operated with or without
compensation for such care and with or without stated education purposes. The
term includes, but is not limited to, facilities commonly known as day-care
centers, day nurseries, nursery schools, preschools, play groups, day camps,
summer camps, centers for developmentally disabled children and those
facilities which give twenty-four (24) hour per day care for dependent and
neglected children, but specifically excludes any family care home as defined
in this Code. Child care centers are also those facilities for children under
the age of six (6) years with stated educational purposes which are operated in
conjunction with a public, private or parochial college or a private or
parochial school, except that the term shall not apply to a kindergarten
maintained in connection with a public, private or parochial elementary school
system of at least six (6) grades so long as the school system is not also
providing extended day services.
   Church or place of worship and assembly means a building containing a hall,
auditorium or other suitable room or rooms used for the purpose of conducting
religious or other services or meetings of the occupants of such structure.
Church or place of worship and assembly shall include churches, synagogues or
the like, but shall not include buildings used for commercial endeavors,
including, but not limited to, commercial motion picture houses or stage
productions.
   City means the City of Creede, a Colorado town.
   Clinic means a building designed and used for the diagnosis and treatment of
human patients that does not include overnight care facilities.
   Clubs and lodges means organizations of persons for special purposes or for
the promulgation of sports, arts, literature, politics or other common goals,
interests or activities, characterized by membership qualifications, dues or
regular meetings, excluding clubs operated for profit and/or places of worship
or assembly.
   Common element means that portion of a condominium project held in common
ownership by the owners or the condominium association or that portion of a
project other than a condominium project which is not under the exclusive
ownership or possession of the owners or occupants of a limited portion of the
project.
   Common open space means open space designed and intended primarily for the
use or enjoyment of residents, occupants and owners of a specific property or
development.
   Community facility means a publicly owned facility or office building which
is primarily intended to serve the recreational, educational, cultural,
administrative or entertainment needs of the community as a whole.
   Compatibility means the characteristics of different uses or activities or
design which allow them to be located near or adjacent to each other in
harmony. Some elements affecting compatibility include height, scale, mass and
bulk of structures. Other characteristics include pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, circulation, access and parking impacts. Other important
characteristics that affect compatibility are landscaping, lighting, noise,
odor and architecture. Compatibility does not mean "the same as." Rather,
compatibility refers to the sensitivity of development proposals in maintaining
the character of existing development.
   Comprehensive plan means the City of Creede Comprehensive Plan, the Sub Area
Plan for the Creede Resources, Inc. Properties, and any other document adopted
as a supplement or sub-area plan of the City of Creede Comprehensive Plan,
which are adopted by the Planning Commission and Board of Trustees in
accordance with C.R.S §31-23-206 and the requirements of this Chapter 9, as all
such documents may be amended from time to time provided that such amendments
or supplemental documents are adopted by ordinance.
   Condominium means an individual airspace unit together with the interest in
the common elements appurtenant to such unit.
   Conservation easement means an interest in real property that provides the
owner of the easement the right to prohibit certain users or acts with respect
to the property in order to maintain the property in a manner that will
preserve its value for recreation, education, habitat, open space or historical
importance. See also C.R.S. §38-30.5-102.
   Covenants means private written agreements outlining regulations specific to
a development. As private restrictions, they are not enforced by the City. In
the event of conflict between the covenants and this Code, this Code controls.
   Crosswalk means a pathway delineated on a street for pedestrians to cross.
   Cul-de-sac means a local street with only one outlet and having the other
end for the reversal of traffic movement.
   Dedication means any grant by the owner of a right to use real property for
the public in general, involving a transfer of property rights, and an
acceptance of the dedicated property by the appropriate public agency.
   Density, dwelling units per acre, means the overall average number of
dwelling units located on the gross or net residential acreage (as applicable)
contained within the development and calculated on a per-acre basis. Gross
density is calculated by dividing the total number of units by the total
acreage. Net density is calculated by dividing the [total number of units] by
the [total acreage minus all publicly dedicated land].
   Detention basin means a man-made or natural water collector facility
designed to collect surface and sub-surface water in order to impede its flow
and to release the same gradually at a rate not greater than that prior to the
development of property, into natural or manmade outlets.
   Developer means any person, partnership, joint venture, limited liability
company, association or corporation who participates as owner, promoter,
developer or sales agent in the planning, platting, development, promotion,
sale or lease of a development.
   Development means the grading or clearing of land, the erection,
construction or alteration of structures, the change of use of a property, or
the division of property to create two (2) or more separate ownership
interests.
      (1)   Development shall also include:
         a.   Any construction, placement, reconstruction, alteration of the
size, or material change in the external appearance of a structure on land;
         b.   Any change in the intensity of use of land, such as an increase
in the number of dwelling units in a structure or on a tract of land or a
material increase in the intensity and impacts of the development;
         c.   Any change in use of land or a structure;
         d.   Any alteration within thirty (30) feet of a shore or bank of a
river, stream, lake, pond, reservoir or wetland;
         e.   The commencement of drilling oil or gas wells, mining,
stockpiling of fill materials, filling or excavation on a parcel of land;
         f.   The demolition of a structure;
         g.   The clearing of land as an adjunct of construction;
         h.   The deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste, or fill on a parcel
of land;
         i.   The installation of landscaping within the public right-of-way,
when installed in connection with the development of adjacent property; and
         j.   The construction of a roadway through or adjoining an area that
qualifies for protection as a wildlife or natural area.
      (2)   Development shall not include:
         a.   Work by a highway or road agency or railroad company for the
maintenance or improvement of a road or railroad track, if the work is carried
out on land within the boundaries of the right-of way;
         b.   Work by any public utility for the purpose of inspecting,
repairing, renewing or constructing, on established rights-of-way, any mains,
pipes, cables, utility tunnels, power lines, towers, poles, or the like;
provided, however, that this exemption shall not include work by a public
entity in constructing or enlarging mass transit or fixed guide way mass
transit depots or terminals or any similar traffic generating activity;
         c.   The maintenance, renewal, improvement, or alteration of any
structure, if the work affects only the interior or the color of the structure
or the decoration of the exterior of the structure;
         d.   The use of any land for an agricultural activity;
         e.   A change in the ownership or form of ownership of any parcel or
structure; or
         f.   The creation or termination of rights of access, easements,
covenants concerning development of land or other rights in land.
   Development application means the various, written and graphical documents
for building permits, grading permits, annexation, subdivision, boundary line
agreements, conditional use permits or special review use permits, site
specific development plans, vested rights, floodplain development, variance
permits, zoning or rezoning permits etc.
   Development plan, (PUD) means the written and graphical documents that
detail the provisions for development of a PUD development. These provisions
may include, and need not be limited to, easements, covenants and restrictions
relating to use; location and bulk of buildings and other structures; intensity
of use or density of development; utilities, private and public streets, ways,
roads, pedestrians, areas, and parking facilities; common open space, and other
public facilities as further defined in §
9-3-60.
   District means a Section or sections of the incorporated area of the City
for which the regulations and provisions governing the use of building and land
are uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
   Downtown means the original business district of City. The boundary of
downtown may change as City continues to grow.
   Drive aisle means the lane(s) in a parking lot devoted to the passage of
vehicles, as opposed to the parking stalls. The term drive aisle does not
include lanes used only or primarily for drive-in customer service.
   Driveway means a constructed vehicular access serving one (1) or more
properties and abutting a public or private road.
   Dwelling means a building or portion thereof, used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including single-family dwellings, duplex and multi-
family dwellings.
   Dwelling, apartment means a room or suite of rooms in a multi-family
structure that is arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a
housekeeping unit for a single family on a rental basis only.
   Dwelling, duplex means a building occupied by two (2) families living
independently of each other.
   Dwelling, multi-family means a dwelling containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, not including hotels, motels, fraternity houses and sorority
houses and similar group accommodations.
   Dwelling, single-family means a building designed exclusively for occupancy
by one (1) family, but not including mobile home, otherwise provided herein.
   Dwelling, timeshare, interval ownership, or fractional fee ownership means
any parcel or lot of land or condominium unit, whether fee interest, leasehold
or contractual right, whereby more than four (4) persons (ownership of an
interest in joint tenancy by two (2) persons being considered one (1) person
for the purpose of this Section) are entitled to the use, occupancy or
possession of such lot, parcel or unit according to a fixed or floating time
schedule occurring periodically over any period of time (the use, occupancy or
possession by each person being exclusive of that by the others). Timesharing
unit includes, but is not limited to, a timeshare estate as defined in C.R.S.
§38-33-110, (1973), as amended.
   Dwelling unit means one (1) or more rooms and a single kitchen and at least
one (1) bathroom, designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as separate
quarters for the exclusive use of a single family for living, cooking and
sanitary purposes, located in a single-family, duplex or multi-family dwelling
or mixed-use building.
   Easement means an ownership interest in real property entitling the holder
thereof to use, but not possession, of that real property for one (1) or more
specific purposes, public or private.
   Elevation means the external vertical plane of a building. Elevations are
considered different if they have different roof lines, building materials,
details, color and overall stylistic expression
   Entertainment facilities and theaters means a building or part of a building
devoted to showing motion pictures or dramatic, musical or live performances.
   Environmentally sensitive area means aquifer recharge areas, significant
wildlife habitat and migration corridors, unique vegetation and critical plant
communities and ridge lines.
   Family child care home means a facility for child care in a place of
residence of a family or person for the purpose of providing less than twenty-
four (24) hour care for children under the age of eighteen (18) years who are
not related to the head of such home. Family child care home may include
infant-toddler child care homes, large child care homes, experienced provider
child care homes, and such other types of family child care homes designated by
rules of the State Department of Social Services pursuant to C.R.S. §26-6-106
(2)(p).
   Farm animal means animals commonly raised or kept in an agricultural, rather
than an urban, environment including, but not limited to, chickens, pigs,
sheep, goats, horses, cattle, llamas, emus, ostriches, donkeys and mules.
   Feedlot means any tract of land or structure, pen or corral, wherein cattle,
horses, sheep, goats, emus, ostriches or swine are maintained in close quarters
for the purpose of fattening such livestock for final shipment to market or
slaughter.
   FEMA means Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Fence means enclosing framework for exterior areas, such as yards or
gardens. FHA means Federal Housing Administration.
   Floodplain or flood hazard area means an area which has been designated by
the Board of Trustees, the Colorado Water Conservation Board or FEMA as
susceptible to flooding.
   Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
   Foster care home means a facility that is certified by the County Department
of Social Services or a child placement agency for child care in a place of
residence of a family or person for the purpose of providing twenty-four (24)
hour family care for a child under the age of eighteen (18) years who is not
related to the head of such home, except in the case of relative care.
   Frontage means the portion of a lot that fronts on a public or private
street.
   Functional open space means open space which is large enough to serve a
practical purpose such as recreation, wildlife habitat or preservation of areas
of agricultural, archeological or historical significance and shall exclude
areas used for off-street parking, off-street loading, service driveways and
setbacks from oil and gas wells or their appurtenances or other hazards to the
public.
   Gasoline station means any building, land area, premises or portion thereof,
where gasoline or other petroleum products or fuels are sold and light
maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication, minor repairs and
carburetor cleaning may be conducted. Gasoline station may include premises
where heavy automobile maintenance activities such as engine overhaul,
automobile painting and body fender work are conducted.
   Geologic hazard means unstable or potentially unstable slopes, undermining,
faulting, landslides, rock falls, flood, wildfire or similar naturally
occurring dangerous features or soil conditions or natural features unfavorable
to development.
   Government services, offices and facilities means an office or building of a
governmental agency that provides administrative and/or direct services to the
public, such as, but not limited to: employment offices, public assistance
offices or motor vehicle licensing and registration services.
   Group home, developmentally disabled means a group home, licensed by the
state, for the exclusive use of not more than eight (8) developmentally
disabled persons and the appropriate staff.
   Group home, elderly means an owner-occupied or nonprofit group home for the
exclusive use of not more than eight (8) persons sixty (60) years of age or
older and the appropriate staff.
      (1)   Nonprofit group home means a group home for the aged which is owned
and operated by a person or organization as provided by C.R.S. 31-23-303, 1973.
      (2)   Owner-occupied group home means a group home for the aged which is
owned and operated by an individual or individuals who actually reside at and
maintain their primary place of residence in the group home.
   Group home, mentally ill means a group home, licensed by the state, for the
exclusive use of not more than eight (8) mentally ill persons and the
appropriate staff.
   Guest house means an accessory structure which is physically detached from a
single-family dwelling unit, is serviced through the same utility meters or
connections as the principal use and is intended for temporary occupancy by
visitors to the family residing in the single-family dwelling.
   Highway corridor means the area within one thousand five hundred (1,500)
feet of the rights-of-way of the state highway.
   Home occupation means an occupation or business activity which results in a
product or service and is conducted in whole or in part in a dwelling unit, and
is subordinate to the residential use of the dwelling unit, and complies with
the following standards.:
      (1)   Does not create impacts greater than customary residential use,
including but not limited to vehicle traffic, noise, vibration and odors;
      (2)   Does not create outdoor storage which is not screened from view by
neighboring property owners and from the public right-of-ways;
      (3)   Does not cause or require customers, delivery persons, or any
person, to regularly enter the property on which the dwelling unit is located
during normal business hour and does not cause or require any persons to enter
the property during normal non-business hours;
      (4)   Does not employ persons who are not residents of the dwelling
located on the property;
      (5)   Does not require alteration to the residence to satisfy applicable
City, Fire or Building Codes, or County health regulations;
      (6)   Does not require or allow any signs to be visible from the outside
of the property; and
      (7)   Does not change the appearance or residential character of the
structure.
   Homeowners' Association means the association set up to enforce the
covenants and maintain all common areas and buildings for a development (also
known as "Owners Association").
   Hospital means an institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training and
central services facilities and staff offices.
   Hotel/motel/lodging establishment means a building intended and used for
occupancy as a temporary abode for individuals who are lodged with or without
meals, in which there are five (5) or more guest rooms.
   Industrial means uses engaged in the basic processing and/or manufacturing
of raw or previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts,
including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental
storage, sales or distribution of such products.
   Infrastructure means those man-made structures which serve the common needs
of the population, such as: potable water systems; wastewater disposal systems;
solid waste disposal sites or retention areas; storm drainage systems;
electric, gas or other utilities; bridges; roadways; bicycle paths or trails;
pedestrian sidewalks, paths or trails; and transit stops.
   Integrate means to combine or coordinate separate elements (such as housing,
recreation, jobs, and shopping), so as to provide a harmonious, interrelated
whole; organized or structured so that constituent parts function
cooperatively.
   Junkyard means an industrial use contained within a building, structure or
parcel of land, or portion thereof, used for collecting, storing or selling
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discarded material or for collecting,
dismantling, storing, salvaging or demolishing vehicles, machinery or other
material and including the sale of such material or parts thereof. Junkyard
shall not include a recycling facility.
   Kennel means a facility licensed to house dogs, cats or other household pets
and/or where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or selling of animals is
conducted as business.
   Kitchen means a room or portion of a room devoted to the preparation or
cooking of food for a person or a family living independently of any other
family, which contains a sink and a stove, cooktop or oven powered by either
natural gas, propane or 220-V electric hook-up.
   Kitchen facility means an area for cooking which includes a sink,
refrigerator and fixture for cooking food.
   Landowner means any owner of a legal or equitable interest in real property,
and includes the heirs, successors and assign of such ownership interests.
   Landscape area means that portion of a parcel of land with any combination
of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, native grasses,
flowers, or lawns; natural features and non-living ground cover such as rock,
stone and bark; and structural features, such as fountains, reflecting pools,
art works, screen walls, fences and benches; but shall not include paved
walkways or parking areas.
   Lane means a private street; or a portion of a roadway delineated for a
single line of vehicles; or a secondary means of access to the abutting lots
and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   Livestock means farm animals kept or raised for use, pleasure and/or profit.
   Loading space means an off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous thereto, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   Long-term care facility means any of the following:
      (1)   Convalescent center means a health institution that is planned,
organized, operated and maintained to offer facilities and services to
inpatients requiring restorative care and treatment and that is either an
integral patient care unit of a general hospital or a facility physically
separated from, but maintaining an affiliation with, all services in a general
hospital;
      (2)   Nursing care facility means a health institution planned,
organized, operated and maintained to provide facilities and health services
with related social care to inpatients that require regular medical care and
twenty-four (24) hour per day nursing services for illness, injury or
disability. Each patient shall be under the care of a physician licensed to
practice medicine in the State of Colorado. The nursing services shall be
organized and maintained to provide twenty-four (24) hour per day nursing
services under the direction of a registered professional nurse employed full-
time; or
      (3)   Intermediate health care facility means a health-related
institution planned, organized, operated and maintained to provide facilities
and services which are supportive, restorative or preventive in nature, with
related social care, to individuals who because of a physical or mental
condition, or both, require care in an institutional environment but who do not
have an illness, injury or disability for which regular medical care and
twenty-four (24) hour per day nursing services are required.
   Lot means a parcel of real property as shown with a separate and distinct
number or letter on a plat recorded with the Mineral County Clerk and Recorder,
or when not so platted in a recorded subdivision, a parcel of real property
abutting upon at least one public street and held under separate ownership.
   Lot area means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot,
except that beneath the mean waterline of a body of water.
   Lot coverage means the ratio of the area of the site which is rendered
impermeable by buildings compared to the total area of a site, excluding those
rendered undevelopable, expressed as a percentage.
   Lot depth means the average distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line.
   Lot, double frontage means lots which front on one (1) public street and
back on another.
   Lot, flag means a lot so shaped and designed that the main building site
area is set back from the street on which it fronts and includes an access
strip connecting the main building site with the frontage street.
   Lot line, front means the property line dividing a lot from a street. Lot
line, rear means the line opposite the front lot line. Lot line, side means any
lot lines other than the front lot line or rear lot line.
   Lot size means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot;
synonymous with area of lot.
   Lot width means the distance parallel to the front lot line, measured at the
front building setback line. Lot width on a curving front lot line means the
distance parallel to the tangent of the front lot line at the building setback
line. The lot width and the lot frontage may have different lengths on an
irregularly shaped lot as they are measured at different points on the lot.
   Manufactured home means a single-family dwelling which:
      (1)   Is partially or entirely manufactured in a factory;
      (2)   Is permanently affixed to and installed on an engineered permanent
foundation; and
      (3)   Has a pitched or cosmetically equivalent roof, and brick or wood
exterior siding.
   Mobile home means a single-family dwelling unit partially or entirely
manufactured in a factory, built on a permanent chassis, and which is designed
to be transported on streets to the place where it is to be occupied as a
dwelling unit. A mobile home shall conform to the following design and
installation standards: Complies with HUD or UBC standards, as applicable, or
meets or exceeds equivalent requirements and performance engineering standards.
   Modified grid pattern means a grid pattern of streets and blocks adapted to
the topography, unique natural features, environmental constraints and
peripheral open space areas.
   Natural areas means floodplains and floodways, natural drainage and water
ways, significant native trees and vegetation, wildlife travel corridors,
special habitat features such as raptor nest sites, key nesting, breeding or
feeding areas for birds; fox and coyote dens and any wetland area.
   Nonconforming building means a building or structure, or portion thereof,
that does not conform to the regulations of this Code, but that was lawfully
constructed under the regulations in force at the time of construction.
   Nonconforming use means a use that does not conform to the use regulations
of this Code, but that was lawfully established under the regulations in force
at the time the use was established and has been in regular use since that
time.
   Off-street parking area means all off-street areas and spaces designed,
used, required or intended to be used for the parking, storage, operation of
motor vehicles, including driveways or access ways in and to such areas, but
not including any outdoor storage area used principally as a "recreational
vehicle, boat or truck storage" use, storage areas for landscaping and other
bulk items or public streets and rights-of-way.
   Open space means any land or water area with its surface open to the sky,
which serves specific uses of: providing park and recreation opportunities,
conserving natural areas and environmental resources, structuring urban
development form, and protecting areas of agricultural, archaeological or
historical significance. Open space shall not be considered synonymous with
vacant or unused land but serves important urban functions. Usable open space
shall exclude areas used for off-street parking, off-street loading, service
driveways and setbacks from oil and gas wells and their appurtenances or other
hazards to the public.
   Outparcel means a parcel of land, generally located on the perimeter of a
larger parcel of commercial land, that is subordinate to the larger parcel for
access, parking and drainage purposes.
   Owner means the owner of a real property interest which is the subject of,
and which would be benefitted by, a proposed development application. Owner
shall include the fee title owner of record according to the Office of the
Mineral County Assessor, by a legal title opinion or by a title insurance
commitment. Owner shall also include other persons who by partnership, joint
venture, contractual relationship or other association have a ten percent (10%)
or greater equity interest in the property or in the owner of record or who
have a contractual right to receive or obtain a defined portion of the property
upon approval of a development application by the City.
   Parcel means a tract or plot of land.
   Park means an area open to the general public and reserved for recreational,
educational or scenic purposes.
   Parking, commercial means a parking lot, structure or garage that does not
provide accessory parking to a specific building or use, is available for
parking by the general public for a fee, may include reserved parking spaces,
and which is owned by a private, non-governmental entity.
   Parking, public means a parking lot, structure or garage that is available
for parking by the general public and which is owned by the City of Creede or a
quasi-governmental entity approved by the City of Creede or approved by Mineral
County.
   Plan means the map(s) and supporting documentation for a development which
includes but is not limited to, lots, blocks, easements, rights-of-way,
pedestrian ways, park and school sites, open space areas and conservation areas
in accordance with the requirements of this Code.
   Planned unit development (PUD) means an area of land, controlled by one or
more landowners, to be developed under unified control or a unified plan and is
developed as a whole in a single development operation or programmed series of
development stages. The development may include dwelling units, commercial,
educational, recreational or industrial uses, or any combination of the
foregoing, the plan for which may not correspond in lot size, bulk or type of
use, density, lot coverage, open space or other restrictions to the existing
land use regulations.
   Planning and Zoning Commission (PZC) means the Planning and Zoning
Commission formed and appointed by the Board of Trustees in accordance with
Article 12 of the Development Code.
   Planning area boundary means the area surrounding the City that the City
will consider annexing and developing. The Planning Area Boundary is delineated
on the land use map in the Comprehensive Plan.
   Plat means a map of certain described land prepared in accordance with the
requirements of this Code, and C.R.S. §38-51-106 as an instrument for recording
of real estate interests with the Mineral County Clerk and Recorder.
   Principal use means the main use of land or of a structure as distinguished
from a conditional or accessory use.
   Proof of ownership means ownership as specified in a current title insurance
commitment or policy, or certification of title, issued by a title insurance
company licensed by the state of Colorado.
   Property means all real property subject to land use regulation by the City.
   Property line means the boundary of any lot, parcel or tract as the same is
described in the conveyance of such property to the owner; and does not include
the streets or alleys upon which the said lot, parcel or tract abuts.
   Public area means streets, parks, open spaces and other property designated
or described as for public use on a map or plat of the City and fee title is
vested in the City, other public body or a special district as defined in
C.R.S. §32-1-103.
   Public benefit means a benefit which promotes a goal, intent or policy of
the Creede Comprehensive Plan.
   Public facility means those constructed facilities, including but not
limited to, transportation systems or facilities, water systems or facilities,
wastewater systems or facilities, storm drainage systems or facilities, fire,
police and emergency systems or facilities, electric, gas, telecommunication
utilities or facilities and publicly owned buildings or facilities.
   Public hearing means a meeting called by a public body for which public
notice has been given and which is held in a place at which the general public
may attend to hear issues and to express their opinions.
   Public improvement means any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree lawn, landscaped open space, off-street parking area, lot
improvement or other facility which benefits the public.
   Public open space means an open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated
to the municipality, state or county or other public body for recreational or
conservation uses. Public open spaces are to be unencumbered by oil and gas
wells, as well as their appurtenances or other hazards to the public.
   Public school means a free, tax-supported school that is controlled and
operated by a School District of the State of Colorado.
   Public use means uses which are owned by and operated for the public by the
City, County, state or federal governments or by school districts.
   Public utility means a common carrier supplying electricity, wire telephone
service, natural gas, water, wastewater or storm water service or similar
public services, but shall not include railroads or other forms of rail mass
transit or depots or terminals supporting the same or wireless
telecommunication facilities.
   Recreational vehicle (RV) means a vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motive power or is mounted or drawn by another vehicle. The
following shall be considered a recreational vehicle:
      (1)   Camping trailer or tent trailer means a folding structure,
constructed of canvas plastic or similar water repellent material designed to
be mounted on wheels and designed for travel and recreation;
      (2)   Motorized camper, motor home, recreational conversion van or bus
means a recreational vehicle consisting of a portable, temporary dwelling to be
used for travel, recreation and vacation uses and constructed as an integral
part of a self-propelled vehicle;
      (3)   Pick-up camper means a vehicle designed to be mounted on or loaded
into a pick-up truck chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel and
recreation;
      (4)   Tent means a portable or temporary cover or shelter, with or
without side panels, which is supported by poles and is made of canvas, plastic
or similar materials;
      (5)   Travel trailer means a towed vehicle designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel and recreation; and
      (6)   Travel trailer, self-contained means a trailer which can operate
independently of connections to sewer, water and electric systems. It contains
a water-flushed toilet, lavatory, shower or bath and kitchen sink, all of which
are connected to water storage and sewage holding tanks located within the
trailer.
   Recycling facility, drop-off means a facility used for the collection and
temporary storage of empty beverage containers, aluminum, glass, paper,
cardboard, clothing or other materials for recycling purposes conducted totally
within an enclosed structure or container. This definition does not include
processing except for "can banks" that crush cans as they are deposited.
   Restaurant means any establishment in which the principal business is the
sale of food and beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state; where
fermented malt beverages, and/or malt, special malt or vinous and spirituous
liquors may be produced on the premises as an accessory use; and where the
design or principal method of operation included one (1) or both of the
following characteristics.
      (1)   Customers are served their food and/or beverages by a restaurant
employee at the same table or counter at which the items are consumed; or
      (2)   Customers are served their food and/or beverages by means of a
cafeteria type operation where the food or beverages are consumed within the
restaurant building.
   Re-subdivision means the changing of any existing lot or lots, street
rights-of-way or easements of a subdivision plat previously recorded with the
County Clerk and Recorder.
   Right-of-way means a strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or for another special use.
The usage of the term "right-of-way" for land platting purposes shall mean that
every right-of-way established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and
distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included
within the dimensions of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for
streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other
use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use
on the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
   Setback means the required unoccupied open space between the nearest
projection of a structure and the property line of the lot on which the
structure is located, except on properties where the street extends beyond the
property line. In these instances the setback shall be measured from the edge
of asphalt or walkway whichever is more restrictive.
   Setback, front yard means the distance a building or structure must be
placed from the front lot line.
   Setback, rear yard means the distance a building or structure must be placed
from the rear lot line.
   Setback, side yard means the distance a building or structure must be placed
from the side lot line.
   Sidewalk means the hard surface path within or adjacent to the street right-
of-way for use by pedestrians and/or bicyclists.
   Significant wildlife habitat and migration corridors means areas designated
by the Colorado Division of Wildlife and/or the Colorado Natural Diversity
Information Source as areas of landscape that provide food, cover and water
sufficient to meet the needs of a given species to survive and reproduce.
   Site plan means a scaled drawing of a lot, showing the actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing or proposed buildings, the location of
the lot in relation to abutting streets, and other details such as parking
areas, access points, landscaped area, building areas, setbacks from lot lines,
building heights, floor areas, densities, utility locations and easements.
   Site specific development plan means the final plat of a subdivision or
final development plan of a PUD (Planned Unit Development) when approved by the
Board of Trustees pursuant to all applicable sections of this Development Code.
   Slope means the relationship of elevation or vertical measure as divided by
the horizontal measurement shall be expressed as a percentage as a means of
quantifying the term "slope."
   Street means a public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
   Streetscape means the distinguishing character of a particular street,
within or adjacent to the public right-of-way, including paved materials, and
the adjacent space extending along both sides of a street including
landscaping, sidewalks, medians, lighting, street furniture and signage.
   Structure means a combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of
land or water.
   Subdivision means the platting of a lot or the division of a lot, tract or
parcel of land into two (2) or more lots, plots, sites or airspace units.
   Subsidence means a local mass movement that involves the downward settling
or sinking of the solid Earth's surface. Subsidence may be due to natural
geologic processes or man's activity such as coal mining.
   Survey means a land plat survey, stamped and signed by a registered Colorado
Surveyor, showing topographic contour intervals depicted at an engineering
scale.
   Temporary use means a prospective use intended for limited duration, is to
be located in a zoning district not permitting such use and shall not include
continuing a nonconforming use or building.
   Use means the purpose for which land or a building is designated, arranged
or intended, or for which it either is or may be occupied or maintained.
   Vegetation means plants growing in a place, including, but not limited to
trees, shrubs, vines, grasses and groundcover.
   Vehicle service and repair means the use of any building, land area,
premises or portion thereof, where maintenance activities such as engine tune-
up, lubrication, carburetor cleaning, brake repair, car washing, detailing,
polishing or the like are conducted.
   Vested property right means the right to undertake and complete the
development and use of property under the terms and conditions of a site
specific development plan, pursuant to §
9-3-110, Vested Property Right.
   Wireless telecommunication equipment means any equipment used to provide
wireless telecommunication service, but which is not affixed to or contained
within a wireless telecommunication facility, but is instead affixed to or
mounted on an existing building or structure that is used for some other
purpose. Wireless telecommunication equipment also includes a ground mounted
base station used as an accessory structure that is connected to an antenna
mounted on or affixed to an existing building.
   Wireless telecommunication facility means any freestanding facility,
building, pole, tower or structure used to provide only wireless
telecommunication services, and which consists of, without limitation,
antennae, equipment and storage and other accessory structures used to provide
wireless telecommunication services.
   Wireless telecommunication service means services providing for the
transmission of wireless communications utilizing frequencies authorized by the
Federal Communications Commission for paging systems, enhanced specialized
wireless telecommunication, personal communication services or cellular
telephone.
   Workshop and custom small industry means a facility wherein goods are
produced or repaired by hand, using hand tools or small-scale equipment,
including small engine repair, furniture making and restoring, upholstering,
restoration of antiques and other art objects or other similar uses.
   Yard means that portion of the open area on a lot extending open and
unobstructed from the ground upward from a lot line for a depth or width
specified by the regulations for the zone district in which the lot is located.
   Yard, front means a yard extending across the full width of the lot between
the front lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   Yard, front setback means the distance a building or structure must be
placed from the back of the front property line.
   Yard, rear means a yard extending across the full width of the lot between
the rear lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   Yard, rear setback means the distance a building or structure must be placed
from the back of the rear property line.
   Yard, side means a yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   Yard, side setback means the distance a building or structure must be placed
from the back of the side property line.
   Zone district means a zone district of the City as established in Article 20
of this Code, unless the term is used in a context that clearly indicates that
the term is meant to include both the zone district(s) of the City and the zone
district(s) of an adjoining governmental jurisdiction, also referred to as
"zoning district."
   Zoning map means the official zoning map adopted by the City by ordinance,
as amended.
(Ord. 395 §3, 2016)
CHAPTER 10
General Offenses
Article 1   General Provisions
   Sec.
10-1-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-1-20   Criminal attempt
   Sec.
10-1-30   Conspiracy
   Sec.
10-1-40   Complicity
   Sec.
10-1-50   Accessory to crime
   Sec.
10-1-60   Aiding and abetting
Article 2   Government and Public Officers
   Sec.
10-2-10   Obstructing government operations
   Sec.
10-2-20   Impersonating a peace officer
   Sec.
10-2-30   Impersonating a City officer or employee
   Sec.
10-2-40   Obstructing a peace officer or firefighter
   Sec.
10-2-50   Resisting arrest
   Sec.
10-2-60   False reporting to authorities
   Sec.
10-2-70   Duty of citizens to aid police officers
Article 3   Streets and Public Places
   Sec.
10-3-10   Unlawful conduct on public property
   Sec.
10-3-20   Trespass or interference in public buildings
   Sec.
10-3-30   Interfering with use of streets or sidewalks
   Sec.
10-3-40   Damage or removal of street signs
   Sec.
10-3-50   Lug wheels prohibited
   Sec.
10-3-60   Advertisements and circulars
   Sec.
10-3-70   Overnight camping on streets and public places
 
   Sec.
10-3-80   Penalties
Article 4   Public, Private and Personal Property
   Sec.
10-4-10   Criminal mischief
   Sec.
10-4-20   Damaging or destroying public property
   Sec.
10-4-30   Damaging or destroying private property
   Sec.
10-4-40   Destroying posters
   Sec.
10-4-50   Trespassing
   Sec.
10-4-60   Littering
   Sec.
10-4-70   Theft
   Sec.
10-4-80   Theft of rental property
   Sec.
10-4-90   Theft by receiving
   Sec.
10-4-100   Concealment of goods
   Sec.
10-4-110   Tampering and unauthorized connection
Article 5   Public Peace and Order
   Sec.
10-5-10   Disorderly conduct
   Sec.
10-5-20   Disrupting lawful assembly
   Sec.
10-5-30   Harassment
   Sec.
10-5-40   Ethnic intimidation
   Sec.
10-5-50   Loitering
   Sec.
10-5-60   Assault
   Sec.
10-5-70   Vagrancy
   Sec.
10-5-80   False alarms
   Sec.
10-5-90   Throwing stones or missiles
   Sec.
10-5-100   Storage of flammable liquids
   Sec.
10-5-110   Explosives
   Sec.
10-5-120   Abandoned containers and appliances
   Sec.
10-5-130   Broken glass, dangerous substances
   Sec.
10-5-140   Fraud by check
Article 6   Public Decency and Morals
   Sec.
10-6-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-6-20   Public indecency
   Sec.
10-6-30   Indecent exposure
   Sec.
10-6-40   Offenses relating to prostitution
   Sec.
10-6-50   House of prostitution
   Sec.
10-6-60   Indecent acts, abusive language
   Sec.
10-6-70   Promotion of obscenity
   Sec.
10-6-80   Window peeping
Article 7   Minors
   Sec.
10-7-10   Parent or guardian aiding, abetting
   Sec.
10-7-20   Encouraging delinquency
   Sec.
10-7-30   False statement; false credentials
   Sec.
10-7-40   Services of others
   Sec.
10-7-50   Purchase for minors
   Sec.
10-7-60   Loitering and other acts around schools
Article 8   Alcoholic Beverages and Drugs
   Sec.
10-8-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-8-20   Alcohol-related violations
   Sec.
10-8-30   Solicitation of drinks
   Sec.
10-8-40   Drunk and disorderly
   Sec.
10-8-50   Illegal possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages by an
underage person
   Sec.
10-8-60   Sales near schools
   Sec.
10-8-70   Alcoholic beverages in certain places
   Sec.
10-8-80   Open container
   Sec.
10-8-90   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   Sec.
10-8-100   Reserved
   Sec.
10-8-110   Abusing toxic vapors
   Sec.
10-8-120   Marijuana cultivation, manufacturing, testing and retail
establishments prohibited
Article 9   Weapons
   Sec.
10-9-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-9-20   Carrying concealed weapon; forfeiture
   Sec.
10-9-30   Disposition of confiscated concealed weapons
   Sec.
10-9-40   Prohibited use of weapons
   Sec.
10-9-50   Selling weapons to intoxicated persons
Article 10   Noise
   Sec.
10-10-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-10-20   Prohibitions
   Sec.
10-10-30   Exemptions
   Sec.
10-10-40   Measurement or assessment of sound
   Sec.
10-10-50   Penalties
   Sec.
10-10-60   Enforcement
Article 11   Animals
   Sec.
10-11-10   Cruelty to animals
   Sec.
10-11-20   Starvation of animals
   Sec.
10-11-30   Abandonment of animals
   Sec.
10-11-40   Keeping place for fighting animals
   Sec.
10-11-50   Supply of food to enclosed animals
   Sec.
10-11-60   Poisoning domesticated animals
   Sec.
10-11-70   Frightening or killing songbirds and insectivorous birds
Article 12   Fireworks
   Sec.
10-12-10   Definitions
   Sec.
10-12-20   Unlawful to sell or use fireworks
   Sec.
10-12-30   Permits
   Sec.
10-12-40   Bond required
   Sec.
10-12-50   Disposal of unfired fireworks
   Sec.
10-12-60   Seizure of fireworks
   Sec.
10-12-70   Construction
Article 13   Miscellaneous Offenses
   Sec.
10-13-10   Parade, procession permits required
   Sec.
10-13-20   Rock climbing
ARTICLE 1
General Provisions
Sec. 10-1-10.   Definitions.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed hereafter:
   Government includes any branch, subdivision, institution or agency of the
government of this City.
   Governmental function includes any activity, which a public servant is
legally authorized to undertake on behalf of a government.
   Public servant means any officer or employee of the government, whether
elected or appointed, and any person participating as an advisor or consultant,
engaged in the service of process or otherwise performing a governmental
function, but the term does not include witnesses.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-1-20.   Criminal attempt.
   (a)   A person commits criminal attempt if, acting with the kind of
culpability otherwise required for commission of an offense, he or she engages
in conduct constituting a substantial step toward the commission of the
offense. A substantial step is any conduct, whether act, omission or
possession, which is strongly corroborative of the firmness of the actor's
purpose to complete the commission of the offense. Factual or legal
impossibility of committing the offense is not a defense if the offense could
have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the actor believed
them to be, nor is it a defense that the crime attempted was actually
perpetrated by the accused.
   (b)   A person who engages in conduct intending to aid another to commit an
offense commits criminal attempt if the conduct would establish his or her
complicity under Section 18-1-603, C.R.S., were the offense committed by the
other person, even if the other is not guilty of committing or attempting the
offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this Section that the
defendant abandoned his or her effort to commit the crime or otherwise
prevented its commission, under circumstances manifesting the complete and
voluntary renunciation of this criminal intent.
   (d)   Criminal attempt to commit a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (e)   Criminal attempt to commit a petty offense is a crime of the same
class as the offense itself.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-1-30.   Conspiracy.
   (a)   A person commits conspiracy to commit a crime if, with the intent to
promote or facilitate its commission, he or she agrees with another person or
persons that they, or one (1) or more of them, will engage in conduct which
constitutes a crime or an attempt to commit a crime, or he or she agrees to aid
the other person or persons in the planning or commission of a crime or of an
attempt to commit such crime.
   (b)   No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit a crime, unless an
overt act in pursuance of that conspiracy is proved to have been done by him or
her or by a person with whom he or she conspired.
   (c)   If a person knows that one with whom he or she conspires to commit a
crime has conspired with another person to commit the same crime, he or she is
guilty of conspiring to commit a crime with the other person, whether or not he
or she knows the other person's identity.
   (d)   If a person conspires to commit a number of crimes, he or she is
guilty of only one (1) conspiracy so long as such multiple crimes are part of a
single criminal episode.
   (e)   Conspiracy to commit a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (f)   Conspiracy to commit a petty offense is a crime of the same class as
the offense itself.
(Prior code 10-5-12; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-1-40.   Complicity.
   A person is legally accountable as principal for the behavior of another
constituting a criminal offense if, with the intent to promote or facilitate
the commission of the offense, he or she aids, abets or advises the other
person in planning or committing the offense.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-1-50.   Accessory to crime.
   (a)   A person is an accessory to crime if, with intent to hinder, delay or
prevent the discovery, detection, apprehension, prosecution, conviction or
punishment of another for the commission of a crime, he or she renders
assistance to such person.
   (b)   Render assistance means to:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other;
      (2)   Warn such person of impending discovery or apprehension; except
that this does not apply to a warning given in an effort to bring such person
into compliance with the law;
      (3)   Provide such person with money, transportation, weapon, disguise or
other thing to be used in avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (4)   By force, intimidation or deception, obstruct anyone in the
performance of any act which might aid in the discovery, detection,
apprehension, prosecution or punishment of such person; or
      (5)   Conceal, destroy or alter any physical evidence that might aid in
the discovery, detection, apprehension, prosecution, conviction or punishment
of such person.
   (c)   Being an accessory to crime is a Class 1 petty offense if the offender
knows that the person being assisted has committed, has been convicted of or is
charged by pending information, indictment or complaint with a crime, or is
suspected of or wanted for a crime, and if that crime is designated by this
Code as a misdemeanor of any class.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-1-60.   Aiding and abetting.
   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, aids or
abets in the commission of any act declared herein to be in violation of the
ordinances of the City, whether individually or in connection with one (1) or
more persons, as a principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such
offense, and every person who fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces,
causes, coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any ordinance
of the City is likewise guilty of such offense.
(Prior code 10-8-14)
ARTICLE 2
Government and Public Officers
Sec. 10-2-10.   Obstructing government operations.
   (a)   It is unlawful to obstruct government operations.
   (b)   A person commits obstructing government operations if he or she
intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders the performance of a governmental
function by a public official, employee or servant, by using or threatening to
use violence, force or physical interference or obstacle.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense that:
      (1)   The obstruction, impairment or hindrance was of unlawful action by
a public servant;
      (2)   The obstruction, impairment or hindrance was of the making of an
arrest; or
      (3)   The obstruction, impairment or hindrance was by lawful activities
in connection with a labor dispute with the government.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-20.   Impersonating a peace officer.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person other than an official police officer of
the City to wear the uniform, apparel or any other insignia of office like,
similar to or a colorable imitation of that adopted and worn by the police
officer.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit, imitate or cause to be
counterfeited, imitated, or colorably imitated, the uniform, apparel, or
insignia of office used by the law enforcement officer of the City.
   (c)   A person who falsely pretends to be a peace officer and performs an
act in that pretended capacity commits impersonating a peace officer.
(Prior code 10-8-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-30.   Impersonating a City officer or employee.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully, unlawfully or fraudulently
represent himself or herself to be a City officer or an employee of the City
and purporting to perform the duties of any such officer or employee when he or
she is not an authorized officer or employee of the City.
(Prior code 10-8-10; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-40.   Obstructing a peace officer or firefighter.
   (a)   No person shall, in any way, interfere with or hinder any police
officer that is discharging or apparently discharging the duties of the
position.
   (b)   It is unlawful to obstruct a peace officer or firefighter.
   (c)   A person commits obstructing a peace officer or firefighter when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force or physical interference or
obstacle, such person knowingly obstructs, impairs or hinders the enforcement
of the law or the preservation of the peace by a peace officer, acting under
color of his or her official authority, or knowingly obstructs, impairs or
hinders the prevention, control or abatement of fire by a firefighter, acting
under color of his or her official authority.
   (d)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this Section that the peace
officer or firefighter was acting in an illegal manner, if the peace officer or
firefighter was acting under color of his or her official authority as defined
in Subsection
10-2-50(c) below.
   (e)   This Section does not apply to obstruction, impairment or hindrance of
the making of an arrest.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-50.   Resisting arrest.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to resist arrest.
   (b)   A person commits resisting arrest if he or she knowingly prevents or
attempts to prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his or her official
authority, from affecting an arrest of the actor or another by:
      (1)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer or another; or
      (2)   Using any other means, which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another.
   (c)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this Section that the peace
officer was attempting to make an arrest which in fact was unlawful, if the
peace officer was acting under color of his or her official authority, and in
attempting to make the arrest, the peace officer was not resorting to
unreasonable or excessive force giving rise to the right of self-defense. A
peace officer acts under color of his or her official authority when, in the
regular course of assigned duties, the peace officer is called upon to make,
and does make, a judgment in good faith based upon surrounding facts and
circumstances that an arrest should be made by the peace officer.
   (d)   The term peace officer as used in this Section means a peace officer
in uniform or, if out of uniform, one who has identified himself or herself by
exhibiting his or her credentials as such peace officer to the person whose
arrest is attempted.
(Prior code 10-8-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-60.   False reporting to authorities.
   It is unlawful for a person to falsely report to authorities. A person
commits false reporting to authorities if he or she:
   (1)   Knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within an official or volunteer fire department, ambulance
service or any other government agency which deals with emergencies involving
danger to life or property;
   (2)   Makes a report or knowingly causes the transmission of a report to law
enforcement authorities of a crime or other incident within their official
concern when he or she knows that it did not occur;
   (3)   Makes a report or knowingly causes the transmission of a report to law
enforcement authorities pretending to furnish information relating to an
offense or other incident within their official concern when he or she knows
that he or she has no such information or knows that the information is false;
   (4)   Knowingly gives false information to any law enforcement officer with
the purpose of implicating another; or
   (5)   Gives a false name or address to a law enforcement officer with the
intent of concealing or hiding one's own real name, address and/or age.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-2-70.   Duty of citizens to aid police officers.
   It is the duty of all persons when called upon by any police officer or
other member of the Police Department to promptly aid and assist such officer
or member in the discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior code 10-8-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
Streets and Public Places
Sec. 10-3-10.   Unlawful conduct on public property.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to enter or remain in any public
building or on any public property or to conduct himself or herself in or on
them in violation of any order, rule or regulation concerning any matter
prescribed in this Section, limiting or prohibiting the use, activities or
conduct in such public building or on such public property, issued by any
officer or agency having the power of control, management or supervision of the
building or property. In addition to any authority granted by any other law,
each such officer or agency may adopt such orders, rules or regulations as are
reasonably necessary for the administration, protection and maintenance of such
public buildings and property, specifically, orders, rules and regulations upon
the following matters:
      (1)   Preservation of property, vegetation, wildlife, signs, markers,
statues, buildings, grounds and other structures, and any object of scientific,
historical or scenic interest;
      (2)   Restriction or limitation of the use of such public buildings or
property as to time, manner or permitted activities;
      (3)   Prohibition of activities or conduct within public buildings or on
public property which may be reasonably expected to substantially interfere
with the use and enjoyment of such places by others or which may constitute a
general nuisance;
      (4)   Camping and picnicking, public meetings and assemblages and other
individual or group usages, including the place, time and manner in which such
activities may be permitted;
      (5)   Use of all vehicles as to place, time and manner of use; and
      (6)   Control and limitation of fires and designation of places where
fires are permitted.
   (b)   No conviction may be obtained under this Section unless notice of such
limitation or prohibition is prominently posted at all public entrances to such
building or property or unless such notice is actually first given the person
by the office or agency, including any agent thereof or by any law enforcement
officer having jurisdiction or authority to enforce this Section.
   (c)   Any person who violates this Section is guilty of unlawful conduct on
public property.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-20.   Trespass or interference in public buildings.
   (a)   No person shall so conduct himself or herself at or in any public
building owned, operated or controlled by the City as to willfully deny to any
public official, public employee or invitee on such premises the lawful rights
of such official, employee or invitee to enter, to use the facilities of or to
leave any such public building.
   (b)   No person shall, at or in any public building, willfully impede any
public official or employee in the lawful performance of duties or activities
through the use of restraint, abduction, coercion or intimidation or by force
and violence or threat thereof.
   (c)   No person shall willfully refuse or fail to leave any such public
building upon being requested to do so by the City officer charged with
maintaining order in such public building, if the person has committed, is
committing, threatens to commit or incites others to commit any act which did,
or would if completed, disrupt, impair, interfere with or obstruct the lawful
missions, processes, procedures or functions being carried on in the public
building.
   (d)   No person shall, at any meeting or session conducted by any judicial,
legislative or administrative body or official at or in any public building,
willfully impede, disrupt or hinder the normal proceedings of such meeting or
session by any act of intrusion into the chamber or other areas designated for
the use of the body or official conducting the meeting or session or by any act
designed to intimidate, coerce or hinder any member of such body or official
engaged in the performance of duties at such meeting or session.
   (e)   No person shall, by any act of intrusion into the chamber or other
areas designated for the use of any executive body or official at or in any
public building, willfully impede, disrupt or hinder the normal proceedings of
such body or official.
   (f)   The term public building, as used in this Section, includes any
premises being temporarily used by a public officer or employee in the
discharge of his or her official duties.
   (g)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section commits
an unlawful act.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-30.   Interfering with use of streets or sidewalks.
   It is unlawful for any person, alone or in a group or assemblage of persons,
whose standing, remaining or congregating on any public highway, street, alley
or sidewalk in the City obstructs, interferes with or prevents the free,
unobstructed and reasonable use of that public highway, street, alley or
sidewalk by any other person, to fail or refuse to yield to the reasonable use
or passage of any other person on that public highway, street, alley or
sidewalk, or to fail or refuse to move on, disperse or cease such obstruction
or interference immediately upon being so ordered by any police officer of the
City or other authorized peace officer.
(Prior code 10-5-14, 10-8-12; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-40.   Damage or removal of street signs.
   It is unlawful for any person without proper authorization to remove,
deface, damage or destroy any street sign or sign erected or placed in or
adjacent to any street indicating the name of such street.
(Prior code 10-3-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-50.   Lug wheels prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any vehicle injurious to pavement to be permitted upon
public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle first planks and
protects such streets from damage.
(Prior code 10-3-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-60.   Advertisements and circulars.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw any posters, dodgers, circulars,
bills, letters, envelopes, samples or devices upon any of the streets, alleys,
parks or public grounds of the City.
(Prior code 10-3-10; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-3-70. Overnight camping on streets and public places.
   Overnight camping and/or sleeping on streets and public places is
prohibited.
   (a)   Except as authorized by a permit issued herein, no person shall park a
motor vehicle on City streets or set up tents, shacks, sleeping bags, or other
shelter on any City street, park or public place for the purpose of overnight
camping, nor shall any person leave any of the above or any movable structure
or special vehicle to be used, or that could be used for such purposes,
including, but not limited to, house trailers, camp trailers, or other mobile
or stationary campers on any City street, park or other public place.
   (b)   A limited permit authorizing an individual or a group to camp and/or
sleep on a City street, park or other public area may be issued by the City
Manager upon a written application and the payment of a fee as designated
annually by the City in the adopted fee schedule. The permit so issued is
discretionary, is for a limited time, and is revocable. The City Manager shall
be responsible for developing a permit application along with an accompanying
refund policy. (Ord. 454 §1, 2024)
Sec. 10-3-80. Penalties.
   Any violations of this Article shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of §
1-4-20 of this Code. In addition, the City may seek an injunction against
continued operations that violate this Article. (Ord. 454 §2, 2024)
ARTICLE 4
Public, Private and Personal Property
Sec. 10-4-10.   Criminal mischief.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly damage the real or personal
property of one (1) or more other persons in the course of a single criminal
episode where the aggregate damage to the real or personal property is less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-20.   Damaging or destroying public property.
   It is unlawful for any person to either willfully, maliciously, wantonly,
negligently or in any other manner damage or destroy real property,
improvements thereto or moveable or personal property belonging to the City.
(Prior code 10-3-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-30.   Damaging or destroying private property.
   It is unlawful for any person to either willfully, maliciously or wantonly
damage or destroy real property, improvements thereto, or moveable or personal
property, belonging to any person.
(Prior code 10-3-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-40.   Destroying posters.
   It is unlawful for any person to either willfully, maliciously, wantonly,
negligently or in any other manner tear down, deface or cover up any posted
advertisement or bill of any person when the same is posted or put in harmony
with the provisions of this Code. Prior code 10-3-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-50.   Trespassing.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly occupy, use or remain on or
in any privately owned property, real or personal, without the permission of
the owner or persons entitled to the possession thereof.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to take down any fence, let down any
bars or open any gate in or on the property of another without the consent of
the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
(Prior code 10-3-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-60.   Littering.
   (a)   It is unlawful to throw or deposit in any street, alley, sidewalk or
public grounds in the City any paper, old clothes, cloth of any kind, boots,
shoes, hats, leather, hair, grass, junk cars, straw, hay, trash or any other
thing, except in public receptacles and authorized private receptacles.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person, while a driver or passenger in a
vehicle, to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place
within the City or upon private property.
(Prior code 10-3-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-70.   Theft.
   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft. A person commits theft when he
or she knowingly obtains or exercises control over anything of another without
authorization or by threat or deception when the value of the thing is less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and:
(1)   Intends to deprive the other person permanently of the use or benefit of
the thing of value;
(2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value in such manner as
to deprive the other person permanently of its use or benefit;
(3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value, intending that such use,
concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person permanently of its use
and benefit; or
(4)   Demands any consideration to which he or she is not legally entitled as a
condition of restoring the thing of value to the other person.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-80.   Theft of rental property.
   It is unlawful for a person to commit theft of rental property. A person
commits theft of rental property if he or she:
(1)   Obtains the temporary use of personal property of another, which is
available only for hire, by means of threat or deception or knowing that such
use is without the consent of the person providing the personal property;
(2)   Having lawfully obtained possession for temporary use of the personal
property of another which is available only for hire, knowingly fails to reveal
the whereabouts of or to return the property to the owner thereof or his or her
representative or to the person from whom he or she has received it within
seventy-two (72) hours after the time at which he or she agreed to return it;
and
(3)   The value of the property involved is less than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-90.   Theft by receiving.
   It is unlawful to commit theft by receiving. A person commits theft by
receiving when he or she receives, retains, loans money by pawn or pledge on or
disposes of anything of value of another, knowing or believing that the thing
of value has been stolen, and when he or she intends to deprive the lawful
owner permanently of the use or benefit of the thing of value, where the value
of such thing is less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-100.   Concealment of goods.
   If any person willfully conceals unpurchased goods, wares or merchandise
valued at less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) owned or held by and offered
or displayed for sale by any store or other mercantile establishment, whether
the concealment is on his or her own person or otherwise and whether on or off
the premises of the store or mercantile establishment, such concealment
constitutes prima facie evidence that the person intended to commit the crime
of theft.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-4-110.   Tampering and unauthorized connection.
   (a)   Any person who connects any pipe, tube, stopcock, wire, cord, socket,
motor or other instrument or contrivance with any main, service pipe or other
medium conducting or supplying gas, water or electricity to any building
without the knowledge and consent of the person supplying such gas, water or
electricity commits tampering and unauthorized connection, which is unlawful.
   (b)   Any person who in any manner alters, obstructs or interferes with any
meter pit, meter or metering device provided for measuring or registering the
quantity of gas, water or electricity passing through said meter without the
knowledge and consent of the person owning said meter commits tampering and
unauthorized connection, which is unlawful.
   (c)   A person who tampers with property of another with intent to cause
injury, inconvenience or annoyance to that person or to another, or if he or
she knowingly makes unauthorized connection with property of a utility, commits
tampering and unauthorized connection, which is unlawful.
   (d)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to apply to any licensed
electrical or plumbing contractor while performing usual and ordinary services
in accordance with recognized customs and standards.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 5
Public Peace and Order
Sec. 10-5-10.   Disorderly conduct.
   A person commits disorderly conduct if he or she intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly:
   (1)   Makes a coarse and obviously offensive utterance, gesture or display
in a public place and the utterance, gesture or display tends to incite an
immediate breach of the peace;
   (2)   Makes unreasonable noise in a public place or near a private residence
that he or she has no right to occupy;
   (3)   Fights with another in a public place except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill;
   (4)   Not being a peace officer, discharges a deadly weapon in a public
place except when engaged in lawful target practice or hunting; or
   (5)   Not being a peace officer, displays a deadly weapon, displays any
article used or fashioned in a manner to cause a person to reasonably believe
that the article is a deadly weapon, or represents verbally or otherwise that
he or she is armed with a deadly weapon in a public place in a manner
calculated to alarm.
(Prior code 10-5-8; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-20.   Disrupting lawful assembly.
   A person commits disrupting lawful assembly if, intending to prevent or
disrupt any lawful meeting, procession or gathering, he or she significantly
obstructs or interferes with the meeting, procession or gathering by physical
action, verbal utterance or any other means.
(Prior code 10-5-13; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-30.   Harassment.
   (a)   A person commits harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm
another person, he or she:
      (1)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects
him or her to physical contact;
      (2)   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an obscene
gesture to or at another person;
      (3)   Follows a person in or about a public place;
      (4)   Initiates communication with a person, anonymously or otherwise, by
telephone, computer, computer network or computer system in a manner intended
to harass or threaten bodily injury or property damage, or makes any comment,
request, suggestion or proposal by telephone, computer, computer network or
computer system which is obscene;
      (5)   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose of legitimate
conversation;
      (6)   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that invade the
privacy of another and interfere in the use and enjoyment of another's home or
private residence or other private property; or
      (7)   Repeatedly insults, taunts, challenges or makes communications in
offensively coarse language to another in a manner likely to provoke a violent
or disorderly response.
   (b)   As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires,
obscene means a patently offensive description of ultimate sexual acts or
solicitation to commit ultimate sexual acts, whether or not said ultimate
sexual acts are normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
masturbation, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus or excretory functions.
   (c)   Any act prohibited by subparagraph (a)(4) above may be deemed to have
occurred or to have been committed at the place at which the telephone call,
electronic mail or other electronic communication was either made or received.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-40.   Ethnic intimidation.
   A person commits ethnic intimidation if, with the intent to intimidate or
harass another person because of that person's actual or perceived race, color,
religion, ancestry, or national origin, he or she:
   (1)   By words or conduct, knowingly places another person in fear of
imminent lawless action directed at that person or that person's property, and
such words or conduct are likely to produce bodily injury to that person or
damage to that person's property; or
   (2)   Knowingly causes damage to or destruction of the property of another
person.
(Prior code 10-5-20; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-50.   Loitering.
   (a)   The word loiter means to be dilatory, to stand idly around, to linger,
delay or wander about, or to remain, abide or tarry in a public place.
   (b)   A person commits a Class 1 petty offense if he or she:
      (1)   Loiters for the purpose of begging;
      (2)   Loiters for the purpose of unlawful gambling with cards, dice or
other gambling paraphernalia;
      (3)   Loiters for the purpose of engaging or soliciting another person to
engage in prostitution or deviate sexual intercourse;
      (4)   With intent to interfere with or disrupt the school program or with
intent to interfere with or endanger schoolchildren, loiters in a school
building or on school grounds or within one hundred (100) feet of school
grounds when persons under the age of eighteen (18) are present in the building
or on the grounds, not having any reason or relationship involving custody of,
or responsibility for, a pupil or any other specific legitimate reason for
being there, and having been asked to leave by a school administrator or his or
her representative or by a peace officer; or
      (5)   Loiters with one (1) or more persons for the purpose of unlawfully
using or possessing a controlled substance, as defined in Section
10-8-10 of this Chapter.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant's acts were lawful and
he or she was exercising his or her rights of lawful assembly as part of a
peaceful and orderly petition for the redress of grievances, either in the
course of labor disputes or otherwise.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-60.   Assault.
   (a)   An assault is an unlawful attempt of a person, coupled with a present
ability, to commit a bodily injury on another person.
   (b)   It is unlawful to assault, beat, strike, wound, imprison or inflict
violence on another person.
(Prior code 10-5-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-70.   Vagrancy.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be deemed a vagrant in the City. The
following persons shall be deemed vagrants in the City:
   (1)   Any person found loitering or strolling in, about or upon any street,
lane, avenue, alley or any other public way or public place, at any public
gathering or assembly, in or around any store, shop or business or commercial
establishment, or on any private property or place without lawful business, and
conducting himself or herself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech
or behavior.
   (2)   Any person upon whose person or in whose possession is found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be inferred is
designed to be employed in the commission of any felony or misdemeanor or in
the violation of any provision of this Code.
   (3)   Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging or sleeping in any
vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other building or structure,
or in any automobile, truck, railroad car or other vehicle, without owning the
same or without permission of the owner or person entitled to the possession of
the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during the hours of darkness.
   (4)   Any person wandering abroad and begging; or any person who goes about
from door to door of private homes or commercial and business establishments or
places himself in or upon, any public way or public place to beg or receive
alms for himself or herself.
   (5)   Any person who knowingly keeps a place where lost or stolen property
is concealed.
   (6)   Any person who is the keeper, proprietor, exhibitor or user of any
gambling table or device, or who assists at or attends any gambling table or
device, or any person who, for the purpose of gambling or gaming, travels about
from place to place or frequents places where alcoholic beverages are sold,
such as railroad cars, trains, depots, buildings or structures, whether
occupied or vacant.
   (7)   Any person who is found trespassing in the nighttime upon the private
premises of others.
(Prior code 10-5-11; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-80.   False alarms.
   Any person who in this City intentionally makes or gives a false alarm of
fire shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior code 10-5-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-90.   Throwing stones or missiles.
   No person shall throw or shoot any stone or other missile at or upon any
person, animal, public or private property, building, structure, tree or shrub.
(Prior code 10-5-19)
Sec. 10-5-100.   Storage of flammable liquids.
   It is unlawful to store or cause to be stored or parked, except for
delivery, any tank vehicle carrying flammable liquids or gases upon any
streets, ways or avenues of the City or in any other part of the City, except
those areas zoned for such uses.
(Prior code 10-5-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-110.   Explosives.
   It is unlawful for any person to store within the City limits or within one
(1) mile thereof any amount of gunpowder, blasting powder, nitroglycerine,
dynamite or other high explosive in excess of one (1) fifty-pound box or in
excess of five hundred (500) caps or other devices used for the detonation of
such high explosives.
(Prior code 10-5-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-120.   Abandoned containers and appliances.
   It is unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his or her control, in a place accessible
to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator,
washer, dryer, freezer or other container or appliance which has a door, lid,
snap lock or other locking device which may not be released from the inside,
without first removing said door, lid, snap lock or other locking device.
(Prior code 10-5-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-130.   Broken glass, dangerous substances.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw, deposit or cause to be thrown or
deposited on any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way any broken glass,
broken crockery, nails or any other dangerous substance.
(Prior code 10-5-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-5-140.   Fraud by check.
   (a)   As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires:
   Check means a written, unconditional order to pay a certain sum in money,
drawn on a bank, payable on demand, and signed by the drawer. Check, for the
purposes of this Section only, also includes a negotiable order of withdrawal
and a share draft.
   Drawee means the bank upon which a check is drawn or a bank, savings and
loan association, industrial bank or credit union on which a negotiable order
of withdrawal or a share draft is drawn.
   Drawer means a person, either real or fictitious, whose name appears on a
check as the primary obligor, whether the actual signature is that of himself
or herself or of a person authorized to draw the check on himself or herself.
   Insufficient funds means a drawer has insufficient funds with the drawee to
pay a check when the drawer has no checking account, negotiable order of
withdrawal account or share draft account with the drawee, or has funds in such
an account with the drawee in an amount less than the amount of the check plus
the amount of all other checks outstanding at the time of issuance; and a check
dishonored for "no account" shall also be deemed to be dishonored for
insufficient funds.
   Issue. A person issues a check when he or she makes, draws, delivers or
passes it or causes it to be made, drawn, delivered or passed.
   Negotiable order of withdrawal and share draft mean negotiable or
transferable instruments drawn on a negotiable order of withdrawal account or a
share draft account, as the case may be, for the purpose of making payments to
third persons or otherwise.
   Negotiable order of withdrawal account means an account in a bank, savings
and loan association or industrial bank, and share draft account means an
account in a credit union, on which payment of interest or dividends may be
made on a deposit with respect to which the bank, savings and loan association,
industrial bank or credit union, as the case may be, may require the depositor
to give notice of an intended withdrawal not less than thirty (30) days before
the withdrawal is made, even though in practice such notice is not required and
the depositor is allowed to make withdrawal by negotiable order of withdrawal
or share draft.
   (b)   Any person, knowing he or she has insufficient funds with the drawee
who, with intent to defraud, issues a check for a sum less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the payment of services, wages, salary, commissions,
labor, rent, money, property or other thing of value, commits fraud by check,
which is unlawful.
   (c)   Any person, having acquired rights with respect to a check, which is
not paid because the drawer has insufficient funds, shall have standing to file
a complaint under this Section, whether or not he or she is the payee, holder
or bearer of the check.
   (d)   Any person who opens a checking account, negotiable order of
withdrawal account or share draft account using false identification or an
assumed name for the purpose of issuing fraudulent checks commits fraud by
check, which is unlawful.
   (e)   If deferred prosecution is ordered, the court as a condition of
supervision may require the defendant to make restitution on all checks issued
by the defendant which are unpaid as of the date of commencement of the
supervision in addition to other terms and conditions appropriate for the
treatment or rehabilitation of the defendant.
   (f)   A bank, savings and loan association, industrial bank or credit union
shall not be civilly or criminally liable for releasing information relating to
the drawer's account to a sheriff, deputy sheriff, undersheriff, police
officer, district attorney, assistant district attorney, deputy district
attorney or authorized investigator for a district attorney investigating or
prosecuting a charge under this Section.
   (g)   This Section does not relieve the prosecution from the necessity of
establishing the required culpable mental state. However, for purposes of this
Section, the issuer's knowledge of insufficient funds is presumed, except in
the case of a postdated check or order, if:
      (1)   He or she has no account upon which the check or order is drawn
with the bank or other drawee at the time he or she issues the check or order;
or
      (2)   He or she has insufficient funds upon deposit with the bank or
other drawee to pay the check or order, on presentation within thirty (30) days
after issue.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 6
Public Decency and Morals
Sec. 10-6-10.   Definitions.
   As used in this Article, the following words shall have the definitions
ascribed to them, unless otherwise provided:
   House of prostitution means a house or place kept or resorted to for the
purpose of prostitution.
   Lewd act means an indecent, wanton and lascivious act committed in the
presence of another or in a place open to the public view. Lewd act shall
include an appearance in the state of nudity or in any indecent or lewd dress,
indecent exposure and exposure of the private parts.
   Meretricious display means any act, sign, gesture or manifestation which
allures or is calculated to allure, entices or is calculated to entice, by a
false show, gaudiness, tawdry ornamentation or lascivious suggestion for
purposes of prostitution.
   Obscene means material or a performance that:
      a.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would
find that, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex.
      b.   Depicts or describes:
         1.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including sexual
intercourse, sodomy and sexual bestiality; or
         2.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of the
genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal, or covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
      c.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   Prostitute means one who engages in prostitution as defined in this Article.
   Prostitution means the offering or receiving of the body for sexual
intercourse or other physical sexual activity for hire. The term prostitution
also includes the indiscriminate or promiscuous offering or receiving of the
body for sexual intercourse or other physical sexual activity without hire.
(Prior code 10-4-1; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-20.   Public indecency.
   It is unlawful to commit public indecency. Any person who performs any of
the following in a public place or where the conduct may reasonably be expected
to be viewed by members of the public commits public indecency:
   (1)   An act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual intercourse;
   (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of any person; or
   (3)   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-30.   Indecent exposure.
   It is unlawful for a person to knowingly expose his or her genitals to the
view of any person under circumstances in which such conduct is likely to cause
affront or alarm to the other person.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-40.   Offenses relating to prostitution.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Commit, offer or agree to commit a lewd act or an act of prostitution.
   (2)   Secure or offer another person for the purpose of committing a lewd
act or an act of prostitution.
   (3)   Be in or near any place frequented by the public, or any public place,
for the purpose of inducing, enticing or procuring another person to commit a
lewd act or an act of prostitution.
   (4)   Make a meretricious display in or near any public place, any place
frequented by the public or any place open to the public view.
   (5)   Transport knowingly any person to any place for the purpose of
committing a lewd act or an act of prostitution.
   (6)   Receive, offer or agree to receive knowingly any person into any place
or building for the purpose of performing a lewd act or an act of prostitution;
or to permit knowingly any person to remain in any place or building for any
such purpose.
   (7)   Direct, offer or agree to direct any person to any place or building
for the purpose of committing any lewd act or act of prostitution.
   (8)   In any manner aid, abet, suffer, permit or participate in the doing of
any of the act prohibited by Subsections (1) through (7) above.
(Prior code 10-4-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-50.   House of prostitution.
   It is unlawful to keep or maintain any house of prostitution or house of ill
fame where men and women resort for the purpose of prostitution in the
corporate limits of the City.
(Prior code 10-4-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-60.   Indecent acts, abusive language.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit any indecent or filthy act in any
place within the City; to utter any filthy word or abusive or filthy language
in the hearing of other persons publicly; or to make any obscene gesture to or
about any other person publicly.
(Prior code 10-4-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-70.   Promotion of obscenity.
   A person commits promotion of obscenity to an individual the age of eighteen
(18) years or older if, knowing its content and character, such person:
   (1)   Promotes or possesses with intent to promote any obscene material; or
   (2)   Produces, presents or directs an obscene performance or participates
in a portion thereof that is obscene or that contributes to its obscenity.
(Prior code 10-4-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-6-80.   Window peeping.
   It is unlawful for any person to trespass upon the property owned or
occupied by another person in the City for the purpose of looking or peeping
into any window, door, skylight or other opening in the house, room or
building; or to loiter in a public street, alley, parking lot or other public
place for the purpose of wrongfully observing the actions of the occupants of
such house, room or building.
(Prior code 10-4-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 7
Minors
Sec. 10-7-10.   Parent or guardian aiding, abetting.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any minor child, to
violate, or to aid, abet, approve, encourage, allow, permit, tolerate or
consent to the violation by any minor child of any provision of this Article or
any ordinances of the City.
(Prior code 10-6-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-7-20.   Encouraging delinquency.
   It is unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect, to encourage, aid or
cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile authorities; and it is
likewise unlawful for any person, after notice that a driver's license of any
child has been suspended or revoked, to permit such child to operate a motor
vehicle during the period that such driver's license is suspended.
(Prior code 10-6-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-7-30.   False statement; false credentials.
   It is unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to make
false statements, to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false
registration card, identification card, note or other document for any unlawful
purpose, or to furnish, present or exhibit such document issued to a person
other than the one presenting the same for the purpose of gaining admission to
prohibited places or for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of
prohibited articles, including beer, liquor, wine or fermented malt beverages
as defined in this Chapter.
(Prior code 10-6-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-7-40.   Services of others.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
engage or utilize the services of any other person, whether for remuneration or
not, to procure any article which the person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years is forbidden by law to purchase.
(Prior code 10-6-12; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-7-50.   Purchase for minors.
   It is unlawful for any person, whether for remuneration or not, to procure
for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age any article which the person
under the age of twenty-one (21) years is forbidden by law to purchase.
(Prior code 10-6-13; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-7-60.   Loitering and other acts around schools.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in,
about or on any public, private or parochial school, college or seminary
grounds or buildings, either on foot or in or on any vehicle, without having
some lawful business therein or thereabout or in connection with such school or
the employees thereof; or for any person to:
   (1)   Annoy, disturb or otherwise prevent the orderly conduct of classes and
activities of any such school.
   (2)   Annoy, disturb, assault or molest any student or employee of any such
school, college or seminary while in any such school building or on any school
grounds.
   (3)   Conduct himself or herself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in
speech or behavior in or about any school building or school grounds.
   (4)   Park or move a vehicle in the immediate vicinity of or on the grounds
of any such school, college or seminary for the purpose of annoying or
molesting the students or employees thereof, or in an effort to induce, entice
or invite students into such vehicles for immoral purposes.
(Prior code 10-6-14; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 8
Alcoholic Beverages and Drugs
Sec. 10-8-10.   Definitions.
   For purposes of this Code, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed hereafter:
   Alcoholic beverage or alcoholic liquor means fermented malt beverage or
malt, vinous or spirituous liquors.
   Controlled substance means a drug or other substance or an immediate
precursor, which is declared to be a controlled substance under this Article,
and also includes marijuana, marijuana concentrate and cocaine.
   Drug paraphernalia means any machine, instrument, tool, equipment or device,
which is primarily designed and intended for one (1) or more of the following:
      a.   To introduce into the human body any controlled substance under
circumstances in violation of state law;
      b.   To enhance the effect on the human body of any controlled substance
under circumstances in violation of state law;
      c.   To conceal any quantity of any controlled substance under
circumstances in violation of state law; or
      d.   To test the strength, effectiveness or purity of any controlled
substance under circumstances in violation of state law.
   Establishment means a business, firm, enterprise, service or fraternal
organization, club, institution, entity, group or residence, and any real
property, including buildings and improvements connected therewith, and shall
also include any members, employees and occupants associated therewith.
   Fermented malt beverage means any beverage obtained by the fermentation of
any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any similar product or any
combination thereof in water containing not less than one-half of one percent
(0.5%) and not more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight.
   Malt liquor includes beer and shall be construed to mean any beverage
obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley,
malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination thereof, in water
containing more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of alcohol by weight.
   Private property means any dwelling and its curtilage which is being used by
a natural person for habitation and which is not open to the public, and
privately owned real property, which is not open to the public. Private
property shall not include:
      a.   Any establishment, which has or is required to have a license
pursuant to Article 3, 4 or 5 of Title 44, C.R.S.;
      b.   Any establishment which sells alcoholic beverages or upon which
alcoholic beverages are sold; or
      c.   Any establishment, which leases, rents, or provides accommodations
to members of the public generally.
   Public place means any place commonly or usually open to the general public
or to which members of the general public may resort, or accessible to members
of the general public. By way of illustration, such public places include but
are not limited to public ways, streets, buildings, sidewalks, alleys, parking
lots, shopping centers, shopping center malls, places of business usually open
to the general public, and automobiles or other vehicles in or upon any such
place or places, but shall not include the interior or enclosed yard area of
private homes, residences, condominiums or apartments.
   Spirituous liquor means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation,
mixed with water and other substances in solution, and includes among other
things brandy, rum, whiskey, gin and every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing at least one-half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol and which is fit for
use for beverage purposes. Any liquid or solid containing beer or wine in
combination with any other liquor except malt liquors and vinous liquors shall
be construed to be spirituous liquor.
   Vinous liquor means wine and fortified wines which contain not less than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) and not more than twenty-one percent (21%) of
alcohol by volume and shall be construed to mean alcoholic beverage obtained by
the fermentation of the natural sugar contents of fruits or other agricultural
products containing sugar.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §5, 2023)
Sec. 10-8-20.   Alcohol-related violations.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
to represent himself or herself to be over the age of twenty-one (21) years for
the purpose of purchasing within the City any fermented malt beverage or malt,
vinous or spirituous liquors.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
to attempt to purchase, purchase or obtain, either directly or through an
intermediary, any fermented malt beverage or malt, vinous or spirituous liquors
by misrepresentation or any other means.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years
to possess or consume, whether actual or constructive, fermented malt beverage
or malt, vinous or spirituous liquors.
   (d)   It is unlawful to sell fermented malt beverage or malt, vinous or
spirituous liquors to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or to
permit any fermented malt beverage, malt or vinous liquors to be sold or
dispensed by a person under eighteen (18) years of age, or spirituous liquors
to be sold or dispensed by a person under twenty-one (21) years of age, or to
permit any such person to participate in the sale or dispensing thereof.
   (e)   It is unlawful for any person, whether for remuneration or not, to
procure for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age any fermented malt
beverage or malt, vinous or spirituous liquors.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-30.   Solicitation of drinks.
   (a)   It is unlawful in any place of business where alcoholic beverages are
sold and consumed upon the premises, for any person to beg or to solicit any
patron or customer of or visitor in such premises to purchase any alcoholic
beverage for the one (1) begging or soliciting.
   (b)   It is unlawful for the proprietor or operator of any such
establishment to allow the presence in such establishment of any person who
violates the provisions of this Section.
(Prior code 10-4-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-40.   Drunk and disorderly.
   It is unlawful for any person to be drunk or disorderly on any highways,
streets, thoroughfares or other public places, or in any private house or
place, within the City, to such an extent as to be obnoxious to public morals
or to jeopardize or to be injurious to person or property.
(Prior code 10-5-9; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-50.   Illegal possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages by an
underage person.
   (a)   Any person under twenty-one (21) years of age who possesses or
consumes alcoholic beverages anywhere in the City commits illegal possession or
consumption of alcoholic beverages by an underage person. Illegal possession or
consumption of alcoholic beverages by an underage person is a strict liability
offense.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to the offense described in Subsection
(a) above that the alcoholic beverages were possessed or consumed by a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age under the following circumstances:
      (1)   While such person was legally upon private property with the
knowledge and consent of the owner or legal possessor of such private property
and the alcoholic beverages were possessed or consumed with the consent of his
or her parent or legal guardian who was present during such possession or
consumption; or
      (2)   When the existence of alcoholic beverages in a person’s body was
due solely to the ingestion of a confectionery which contained alcoholic
beverages within the limits prescribed by Section 25-5-410(1)(i)(II), C.R.S.,
or the ingestion of any substance which was manufactured, designed or intended
primarily for a purpose other than oral human ingestion, or the ingestion of
any substance which was manufactured, designed or intended solely for medicinal
or hygienic purposes or solely from the ingestion of a beverage which contained
less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcoholic beverages by weight.
   (c)   The possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages shall not
constitute a violation of this Section if such possession or consumption takes
place for religious purposes protected by the First Amendment to the United
States Constitution.
   (d)   Prima facie evidence of a violation of Subsection (a) of this Section
shall consist of:
      (1)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty-one (21)
years and possessed or consumed alcoholic beverages anywhere in this State; or
      (2)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of twenty-one (21)
years and manifested any of the characteristics commonly associated with
alcoholic beverage intoxication or impairment while present anywhere in this
State.
   (e)   During any trial for a violation of Subsection (a) above, any bottle,
can or other container with labeling indicating the contents of such bottle,
can or container shall be admissible into evidence, and the information
contained on any label on such bottle, can or other container shall not
constitute hearsay. A jury or a judge, whichever is appropriate, may consider
the information upon such label in determining whether the contents of the
bottle, can or other container were composed in whole or in part of alcoholic
beverages. A label which identifies the contents of any bottle, can or other
container as “beer,” “ale,” “malt beverage,” “fermented malt beverage,” “malt
liquor,” “wine,” “champagne,” “whiskey” or “whisky,” “gin,” “vodka,” “tequila,”
“schnapps,” “brandy,” “cognac,” “liqueur,” “cordial,” “alcohol” or “liquor”
shall constitute prima facie evidence that the contents of the bottle, can or
other container were composed in whole or in part of alcoholic beverages.
   (f)   A parent or legal guardian of a person under twenty-one (21) years of
age, or any natural person who has the permission of such parent or legal
guardian, may give, or permit the possession and consumption of, alcoholic
beverages to or by a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years under the
conditions described in Paragraph (b)(1) above. This Subsection shall not be
construed to permit any establishment which is or is required to be licensed
pursuant to Article 46, 47 or 48 of Title 12, C.R.S., or any members, employees
or occupants of any such establishment to give, provide, make available or sell
alcoholic beverages to a person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-60.   Sales near schools.
   It is unlawful for any hotel or restaurant license, as defined in Section
44-3-413, C.R.S. to be issued for any premises within a distance of one hundred
(100) feet from any private, public or parochial school. It is unlawful for any
other class of license, as listed in Section 44-3-401, C.R.S. to be issued for
any premises within a distance of two hundred sixty (260) feet from any
private, public or parochial school. Said distance shall be computed by direct
measurement from the nearest property line of the land used for school purposes
to the nearest portion of the building in which liquor is to be sold, using a
route of direct pedestrian access. However, this prohibition shall not affect
the rights of any person holding, at the time of the initial ordinance codified
herein, a lawful permit or license to conduct such business within the
restricted area hereby established; nor shall such prohibition prevent the
renewal upon the expiration thereof of any license in effect at such time
authorizing such business within the restricted area hereby established.
(Ord. 376 §2, 2013; Ord. 445 §6, 2023)
Sec. 10-8-70.   Alcoholic beverages in certain places.
   (a)   No person shall carry or have any open containers of alcoholic
beverages on any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place, in any
automobile or on the grounds or in the facilities of any public or private
school, college or university except where authorized by the governing
authority of such institution.
   (b)   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverages in or on any of the
above-enumerated places.
   (c)   The foregoing prohibitions shall not apply to any place duly licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior code 10-5-10; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-80.   Open container.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to possess or consume by open container
any alcoholic beverage, whether such possession is actual or constructive, in
any public place as defined in Section
10-8-10 of this Chapter, upon property owned, operated, leased or maintained by
the State or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or upon property
owned, operated, leased or maintained by the City; provided, however, that it
shall not be a violation of this provision to store or consume any alcoholic
beverage in conformance with, and pursuant to the terms of, any validly issued
permit or license. For the purpose of this Section, an unsealed or open
container shall not include a container of vinous liquor that has been resealed
pursuant to the provisions of Section 44-3-423, C.R.S., and is clearly
recognizable to a peace officer as a container that has been resealed by the
hotel or restaurant license holder.
   (b)   Except as otherwise authorized by this Article, it shall be unlawful
for any person within the jurisdiction of the City to possess an open container
of or consume any fermented malt or alcoholic beverages in public, except upon
premises licensed or permitted under provisions of the Colorado Liquor Code, as
amended.
   (c)   For the purpose of this Section, open container means any container
which is either opened so that the contents can be removed or upon which the
seal, cork, pull tab or any type of cap applied by the manufacturer has been
broken. A container shall be deemed an open container even if such container is
resealed by any type of cap or seal.
   (d)   For the purposes of this Section, the term in public means:
      (1)   In or upon any public highway, street, alley, walk, parking lot,
building, park or other property or place which is owned or leased by the City
or other governmental entity, whether in a vehicle or not; and
      (2)   In or upon those portions of any private property upon which the
public has an express or implied license to enter or remain. If such express or
implied license is subject to time or conduct restrictions, consumption or
prohibited possession of fermented malt or alcoholic beverages on such property
shall be deemed to be in public regardless of the time of day.
   (e)   For the purpose of this Section, the term possess or possession means
exercising physical control over or holding such container, but also means
exercising dominion and control over the place where such containers are found.
   (f)   The City Manager, or designee, may, as provided in this Subsection,
grant express written permission to persons to consume fermented malt
beverages, or malt or vinous liquors, on City-owned property for the following
special functions: artistic events; civic events; cultural events; receptions;
private parties; or other type function at the discretion of the City Manager.
      (1)   The City Manager shall adopt an administrative directive specifying
the City properties or portions thereof upon which fermented malt beverages, or
malt or vinous liquors, may be consumed.
      (2)   The City Manager shall grant such permission to persons applying
for a permit if, considering the type of function, the City Manager finds that:
         a.   The application is filed with the City not later than thirty (30)
days prior to the date of the event;
         b.   The time, location and duration of the function are not likely to
significantly interfere with public traffic or services, including public
safety services;
         c.   Procedures are proposed that are likely to ensure that underage
persons and persons under the influence of alcohol will not obtain or consume
fermented malt beverages, or malt or vinous liquors, served at the function;
         d.   Procedures are proposed that are likely to secure and supervise
the area and the participants during the function;
         e.   The applicant agrees to be personally responsible for and provide
financial guarantees to ensure the cleaning, trash disposal or repairs
necessary as a result of the event for which the permit was granted. The City
Manager, or designee, shall determine the amount of required financial guaranty
based upon the location of the event, the duration of the event, the number of
persons anticipated to attend, the failure of the applicant to clean or repair
City property in conjunction with past events and the financial resources of
the applicant; and
         f.   The applicant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City, its
employees and agents for all liability claims arising out of the event, and to
provide general liability insurance, with minimum liability limits equal to
those established by the Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (Section 24-10-101,
et seq., C.R.S.) to guarantee indemnification. The City Manager, or designee,
may waive or reduce this insurance requirement if the applicant affirmatively
establishes that the risk of liability to the City as a result of the function
does not present the City with any significant additional risk of liability.
      (3)   The City Manager, or designee, may issue a permit for consumption
of fermented malt beverages, or malt or vinous liquors, on City-owned property
based upon the following criteria:
         a.   The request is for or on behalf of a City-sponsored or co-
sponsored civil event using any City-owned property; and
         b.   The proposed event meets all the criteria as set forth in this
Section.
      (4)   The City Manager, or designee, shall deny permission on the grounds
that:
         a.   There is insufficient data presented by the applicant to make the
findings required in Paragraph (2) of this Section;
         b.   Approval would be detrimental to the public safety, health,
morals, order or welfare by reason of the nature of the event, the likelihood
that the event would create a public nuisance, an unreasonable risk of violence
or public disorder or result in the consumption of alcohol beverages by minors;
or alternatively, the proximity of the event to schools or the failure of the
applicant to conduct past events in compliance with this Section and the
applicable rules and regulations;
         c.   Another event has previously been scheduled for the same location
on the same day and time; or
         d.   The event would unreasonably interfere with normal activities and
customary and general use and enjoyment of the facility.
      (5)   The granting of permission by the City Manager under this Section
does not relieve the applicant from the responsibility of obtaining any license
or special event permit as may be required by state law or City ordinance.
      (6)   This Section is not intended to create a right of use or possession
of City-owned or leased property in any person or group; rather, this Section
relates only to permission to consume fermented malt beverages, or malt or
vinous liquors, by an individual or group who otherwise has the lawful right to
use or possess City-owned or leased property pursuant to City policy.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008; Ord. 445 §7, 2023)
Sec. 10-8-90.   Possession of drug paraphernalia.
   (a)   A person commits possession of drug paraphernalia if he or she
possesses drug paraphernalia and intends to use the drug paraphernalia under
circumstances in violation of state law.
   (b)   Any person who commits possession of drug paraphernalia commits a
Class 2 petty offense.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-100.   Reserved.
Sec. 10-8-110.   Abusing toxic vapors.
   (a)   As used in this Section, the term toxic vapors means the following
substances or products containing such substances: alcohols, including methyl,
isopropyl, propyl or butyl; aliphatic acetates, including ethyl, methyl, propyl
or methyl cellosolve acetate; acetone; benzene; carbon tetrachloride;
cyclohexane; Freons, including Freon 11 and Freon 12; hexane; methyl ethyl
ketone; methyl isobutyl ketone; naphtha; perchlorethylene; toluene;
trichloroethane or xylene.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly smell or inhale the fumes of toxic vapors
for the purpose of causing a condition of euphoria, excitement, exhilaration,
stupefaction or dulled senses of the nervous system. No person shall knowingly
possess, buy or use any such substance for the purposes described in this
Section. This Subsection shall not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for
medical or dental purposes.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell, offer for sale,
deliver or give away to any other person any substance or product releasing
toxic vapors, where the seller, offeror or deliverer knows or has reason to
believe that such substance will be used for the purpose of inducing a
condition of euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulled senses
of the nervous system.
   (d)   In a prosecution for a violation of this Section, evidence that a
container lists one (1) or more of the substances described in Subsection (a)
above as one (1) of its ingredients shall be prima facie evidence that the
substance in such container contains toxic vapors and emits the fumes thereof.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-8-120.   Marijuana cultivation, manufacturing, testing and retail
establishments prohibited.
   (a)   Marijuana establishments prohibited. The operation, ownership,
establishment or conduct of marijuana cultivation facilities, marijuana
establishments, marijuana product manufacturing facilities, marijuana products
facilities, marijuana testing facilities and retail marijuana stores thereof is
unlawful and prohibited within the City of Creede.
   (b)   Definitions. Unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise
requires, any terms used herein shall have the same meanings as provided in
Article XVIII, Section 16 of the Colorado Constitution. These definitions
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Marijuana or marihuana means all parts of the plant of the genus
cannabis whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from
any part of the plant, and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or its resin, including
marihuana concentrate. Marijuana or marihuana does not include industrial hemp,
nor does it include fiber produced from the stalks, oil, or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination, or the weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or other product.
      (2)   Marijuana accessories means any equipment, products, or materials
of any kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, vaporizing, or containing marijuana, or for
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
      (3)   Marijuana cultivation facility means an entity licensed to
cultivate, prepare and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana
stores, to marijuana product manufacturing facilities, and to other marijuana
cultivation facilities, but not to consumers.
      (4)   Marijuana establishment means a marijuana cultivation facility, a
marijuana testing facility, or marijuana product manufacturing facility, or a
retail marijuana store.
      (5)   Marijuana product manufacturing facility means an entity licensed
to purchase marijuana; manufacture, prepare and package marijuana products; and
well marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
      (6)   Marijuana products means concentrated marijuana products and
marijuana products that are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and
are intended for use and consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible
products, ointments, and tinctures.
      (7)   Marijuana testing facility means an entity licensed to analyze and
certify the safety and potency of marijuana.
      (8)   Retail marijuana store means an entity licensed to purchase
marijuana from marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana
products from marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana
and marijuana products to consumers.
   (c)   Any person, corporation, company, partnership, business association or
organization convicted of violating the terms of this ordinance shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000). Each day of
continued violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 375, §3, 2013; Ord. 408, § 1, 2017)
ARTICLE 9
Weapons
Sec. 10-9-10.   Definitions.
   (a)   As used in this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   Ballistic knife means any knife that has a blade, which is forcefully
projected from the handle by means of a spring-loaded device or explosive
charge.
   Blackjack includes any billy, sand club, sandbag or other hand-operated
striking weapon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased piece of lead or
other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or springy shaft which
increases the force of impact.
   Bomb means any explosive or incendiary device or Molotov cocktail as defined
in Section 9-7-103, C.R.S., or any chemical device which causes or can cause an
explosion, which is not specifically designed for lawful and legitimate use in
the hands of its possessor.
   Firearm silencer means any instrument, attachment, weapon or appliance for
causing the firing of any gun, revolver, pistol or other firearm to be silent
or intended to lessen or muffle the noise of the firing of any such weapon.
   Gas gun means a device designed for projecting gas-filled projectiles, which
release their contents after having been projected from the device, and
includes projectiles designed for use in such device.
   Gravity knife means any knife that has a blade released from the handle or
sheath thereof by the force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force
that, when released, is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever or
other device.
   Handgun means a pistol, revolver or other firearm of any description, loaded
or unloaded, from which any shot, bullet or other missile can be discharged,
the length of the barrel of which, not including any revolving, detachable or
magazine breech, does not exceed twelve (12) inches.
   Knife means any dagger, dirk, knife or stiletto with a blade over three and
one-half (3½) inches in length, or any other dangerous instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds; but does not include a hunting
or fishing knife carried for sports use. The issue that a knife is a hunting or
fishing knife must be raised as an affirmative defense.
   Machine gun means any firearm, whatever its size and usual designation, that
shoots automatically more than one (1) shot, without manual reloading, by a
single function of the trigger.
   Nunchaku means an instrument consisting of two (2) sticks, clubs, bars or
rods to be used as handles, connected by a rope, cord, wire or chain which is
in the design of a weapon used in connection with the practice of a system of
self-defense.
   Short rifle means a rifle having a barrel less than sixteen (16) inches long
or an overall length of less than twenty-six (26) inches.
   Short shotgun means a shotgun having a barrel or barrels less than eighteen
(18) inches long or an overall length of less than twenty-six (26) inches.
   Stun gun means a device capable of temporarily immobilizing a person by the
infliction of an electrical charge.
   Switchblade knife means any knife the blade of which opens automatically by
hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in its handle.
   Throwing star means a disk having sharp radiating points or any disk-shaped
bladed object which is handheld and thrown and which is in the design of a
weapon used in connection with the practice of a system of self-defense.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to any provision of this Article, that
the act was committed by a peace officer in the lawful discharge of his or her
duties.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-9-20.   Carrying concealed weapon; forfeiture.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to wear under his or her clothes or
concealed about his or her person, or to display in a threatening manner any
dangerous or deadly weapon, including but not limited to any pistol, revolver,
sling shot, cross-knuckles, metallic knuckles, Bowie knife, dirk, dagger or any
kind of knife resembling a Bowie knife, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell, display, use,
possess or carry any knife having the appearance of a pocket knife, the blade
of which can be opened by a flick of a button, pressure on the handle or other
mechanical contrivance. Any such knife is hereby declared to be a dangerous or
deadly weapon within the meaning of Subsection (a) above, and shall be subject
to forfeiture to the City as provided in Subsection (c) below.
   (c)   Every person convicted of any violation of this Section shall forfeit
to the City such dangerous or deadly weapon so concealed or displayed.
   (d)   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to forbid United States
Marshals, sheriffs, constables and their deputies and any regular, special or
ex officio police officer or other law enforcement officer from carrying or
wearing, while on duty, such weapons as shall be necessary in the proper
discharge of their duties.
   (e)   Except as provided in Subsection (e), persons may carry concealed
handguns properly permitted and carried pursuant to §§18-12-201 et seq., on the
property or in any public building owned or leased by the City, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   The chambers or galleries where the Town Board of Trustees is
located;
      (2)   Meetings of the Town Board of Trustees; and
      (3)   The official office of any elected member of the Town Board of
Trustees or of the City Manager.
   (f)   Persons shall not carry firearms in the City’s Municipal Court
chambers when court proceedings are in session. The City shall notify the
public when Municipal Court proceedings are in session by posting signs at the
public entrances
to the City Hall, notifying the public that the carrying of firearms is
prohibited in the Municipal Court chambers while Court is in session.
   (g)   For the purposes of this section, "firearm" shall be given the
definition and construed in accordance with §18-12-101, as amended from time to
time; and shall include the term "handgun," which shall have the definition and
be construed in accordance with §18-12-202(4). (Prior Code 10-5-15; Ord. 347
§1, 2008; Ord. 455 §1, 2024)
Sec. 10-9-30.   Disposition of confiscated concealed weapons.
   It is the duty of every police officer, upon making any arrest and taking
such a concealed weapon from the person of the offender, to deliver the same to
the Municipal Judge, to be held by him or her until the final determination of
the prosecution for said offense. Upon the finding of guilt, it shall then be
the duty of the Municipal Judge to deliver said weapon forthwith to the Chief
of Police, who shall make disposition of the weapon.
(Prior code 10-5-16; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-9-40.   Prohibited use of weapons.
   (a)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly and unlawfully aims a firearm at another person;
      (2)   Recklessly or with criminal negligence discharges a firearm or
shoots a bow and arrow.
      (3)   Knowingly sets a loaded gun, trap or device designed to cause an
explosion upon being tripped or approached, and leaves it unattended by a
competent person immediately present.
      (4)   Has in his or her possession a firearm while he or she is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or of a controlled substance. Possession of a
permit issued under Section 18-12-105(2)(c), C.R.S., is no defense to a
violation of this Section.
      (5)   Knowingly aims, swings or throws a throwing star or nunchaku at
another person, or knowingly possesses a throwing star or nunchaku in a public
place except for the purpose of presenting an authorized public demonstration
or exhibition or pursuant to instruction in conjunction with an organized
school or class. When transporting throwing stars or nunchaku for a public
demonstration or exhibition or for a school or class, they shall be transported
in a closed, nonaccessible container.
      (6)   Has in his or her possession, except within his or her own
domicile, or carries or uses a revolver, pistol of any description, shotgun or
rifle, which may be used for the explosion of cartridges; or any air gun, gas-
operated gun, spring gun, or instrument, toy or weapon commonly known as a
peashooter, slingshot or beanie; or any bow made for the purpose of throwing or
projecting missiles of any kind or any means whatsoever, whether such
instrument is called by any name set forth above or by any other name.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this Section shall prevent the use of any such
instruments in shooting galleries or in any private grounds or residences under
circumstances when such instrument can be fired, discharged or operated in such
a manner as not to endanger persons or property and also in such manner as to
prevent the projectile from traversing any grounds or space outside the limits
of such gallery, grounds or residence. In addition, nothing contained herein
shall be construed to prevent the carrying of any type of gun whatsoever, when
unloaded and properly cased, to or from any range or gallery.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this Section shall prevent the use of any such
instruments by any peace officer as shall be necessary in the proper discharge
of his or her duties.
(Prior code 10-5-17; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-9-50.   Selling weapons to intoxicated persons.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to purchase, sell, loan or furnish any
gun, pistol or other firearm in which any explosive substance can be used, to
any person under the influence of alcohol or any narcotic drug, stimulant or
depressant, to any person in a condition of agitation and excitability, or to
any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (b)   Such unlawful purchase, sale, loan or furnishing shall be grounds for
revocation of any license issued by the City to such person.
(Prior code 10-5-18; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 10
Noise
Sec. 10-10-10.   Definitions.
   For purposes of this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   Emergency means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   Emergency work means any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   Noise disturbance means any sound which:
      a.   Either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of normal sensibilities within
the City. Elements to be considered in determining whether noise is excessive
in a given situation include, but are not limited to, the following: Intensity
of the noise, whether the noise is usual or unusual, whether the origin of the
noise is natural or unnatural, the intensity of the ambient noise, the
proximity of the noise to sleeping facilities, the zoning district within which
the noise emanates, the time of day or night the noise occurs, the duration of
the noise, whether the noise is continuous or intermittent and whether
alternate methods are available to achieve the objectives of the sound-
producing activity.
      b.   Exceeds the sound level limits set forth in this Article.
   Person means any person, person's firm, association, co-partnership, joint
venture, corporation or any entity public or private in nature.
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-10-20.   Prohibitions.
   The following acts, which list shall not be deemed to be exclusive, are
declared to be loud, objectionable and unnecessary noises and shall be deemed
detrimental to the health and safety of the residents of the City and are
prohibited by this Article.
   (1)   General prohibitions. No person or persons shall make, cause to be
made, assist in making or continue any excessive, unnecessary, unreasonably
loud noise or disturbance or any noise or disturbance which disturbs, destroys
or endangers the comfort, health, peace or safety of others within the
immediate vicinity of the noise or disturbance as described above in the
definitions for unreasonable noise. Without limitations, the commission of one
(1) or more of the following acts shall be deemed a violation of this Article
and shall be considered as a noise disturbance.
   (2)   Construction-related activities. Noises emanating from the road
construction or from the excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of
buildings, structures or property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (3)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public.
   (4)   Horns, signaling devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or signal on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle except as a danger warning; the
creation, by means of any other signaling device, of any unreasonable loud or
harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device for unnecessary and/or
unreasonable periods of time.
   (5)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a
muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises.
   (6)   Maximum sound levels for time and land use:
 
Residential 8:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m.65
           9:00 p.m. – 8:00 a.m.60
Commercial  7:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m70
           10:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m65
Industrial  7:00 a.m. – 10:00 p.m75
           10:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m70
 
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-10-30.   Exemptions.
   Sounds from the following sources shall be exempt from the prohibitions
specified herein:
   (1)   Any vehicle owned by and operated by governmental agencies or a
utility in the performance of its duties.
   (2)   Noise associated with routine snow-removal activities where customary
practices and equipment are used and where the snow removal equipment is
operated within the manufacturer's specifications and in proper operating
condition.
   (3)   All safety signals and warning devices or any other device used to
alert persons to any emergency or used during the conduct of emergency work,
including but not limited to police, fire and medical/rescue vehicle sirens.
   (4)   Noise associated with a bona fide response to an emergency situation
that poses a threat to the public health, safety or welfare.
   (5)   Musical, recreational and athletic events conducted by and on the site
of a school or educational institution and municipal institutions.
   (6)   Equipment for maintenance of lawns and grounds during the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (7)   Noises emanating from the road construction or from the excavation,
demolition, alteration or repair of buildings, structures or property between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (8)   The Days of '92 and sanctioned Fourth of July events and activities.
   (9)   Any public display of fireworks authorized by the Fire Marshal.
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-10-40.   Measurement or assessment of sound.
   Measurement with sound level meter.
   (1)   The measurement of sound shall be made with a sound level meter
meeting the standards prescribed by ANSI S1.4-1971 (R1976). The instruments
shall be maintained in calibration and in good working order. A calibration
check shall be made of the system at the time of any sound level measurement.
Measurements shall be taken so as to provide a proper representation of the
source of the sound. The microphone during measurement shall be positioned so
as not to create any unnatural enhancement or diminution of the measured sound.
A windscreen for the microphone shall be used at all times. However, a
violation of this Article may occur without the occasion of the measurements
being made as otherwise provided.
   (2)   The slow meter response of the sound level meter shall be used in
order to best determine the average amplitude.
   (3)   The measurement shall be made at any point from at least twenty-five
(25) feet away from any ground, wall, floor, ceiling, roof and other plane
surface.
   (4)   In case of multiple occupancy of a property, the measurement may be
made at any point inside the premises to which any complainant has right of
legal private occupancy, provided that the measurement shall not be made within
three (3) feet of any ground, wall, floor, ceiling, roof or other plane
surface.
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-10-50.   Penalties.
   (a)   First offense: A first offense of any provision of this Article by a
person shall result in a warning.
   (b)   Second offense: A second offense of any provision of this Article by a
person shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
   (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: A third and subsequent offense during a
twelve-month period from the date of the first offense shall be punishable be a
fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each subsequent offense within the
twelve-month period shall be punishable by a fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (d)   Payment deadline: All fees must be paid within twenty (20) days of
receipt of notice. If fees are paid after the twenty (20) days, an additional
fee of ten dollars ($10.00) will be charged.
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-10-60.   Enforcement.
   (a)   Enforcement. Any certified Colorado law enforcement officer shall be
designated enforcement officer. He or she shall issue complaints and may be the
appearing officer at any hearing.
   (b)   An enforcement officer may issue a Municipal Code Violation Complaint
to the individual responsible for any such device emitting sound in violation
of this Article, including the driver of a motor vehicle, the first registered
owner of the vehicle, the owner of record or a resident of a single-family home
or apartment, the proprietor of a business or the person who is in physical
control of the device or animal responsible for the unreasonable or excessive
noise.
(Prior code 10-8-1; Ord. 336 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 11
Animals
Sec. 10-11-10.   Cruelty to animals.
   It is be unlawful for any person to overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat,
mutilate, kill needlessly or carry or transport in any vehicle or otherwise in
a cruel and inhuman manner, any animal, or to cause any of these acts to be
done. Further, it is unlawful for any person firm or corporation to confine any
animal in a parked or stationary vehicle unattended for a period of more than
thirty (30) minutes. Excessive noise from a confined animal from a parked or
stationary vehicle so as to annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, repose,
health or safety of others is prohibited.
(Prior code 10-7-1; Ord. 306 §II, 1998; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-20.   Starvation of animals.
   It is unlawful for any person having charge or custody of any animal to fail
to provide it with proper food, drink and protection from the weather, or to
cause any of these acts to be done.
(Prior code 10-7-2; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-30.   Abandonment of animals.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon any animal, or to cause such
abandonment to be done.
(Prior code 10-7-3; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-40.   Keeping place for fighting animals.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or cause to be kept any place where
any fowls or animals are suffered to fight upon exhibition, or for sport upon
any wager.
(Prior code 10-7-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-50.   Supply of food to enclosed animals.
   In case any animal is at any time enclosed or confined and continues to be
without necessary food or water for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours, it
shall be lawful for any person from time to time, and as often as necessary, to
enter into or upon any such enclosure in which any such animal is confined, and
supply it with necessary food and water so long as it remains so confined. Such
person shall not be liable for such entry, and he or she may collect the
reasonable cost of such feed and water from the owner of such animal.
(Prior code 10-7-5; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-60.   Poisoning domesticated animals.
   It is unlawful for any person to poison any dog or to distribute poison in
any manner whatsoever with the intent or for the purpose of poisoning any
domesticated animals.
(Prior code 10-7-6; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-11-70.   Frightening or killing songbirds and insectivorous birds.
   It is unlawful for any person at any time within the City limits to
frighten, shoot at, wound, kill, take, capture, ensnare, net, trap or in any
other manner molest or injure any robin, lark, whip-poor-will, finch, sparrow,
thrush, wren, martin, swallow, snowbird, bobolink, red-winged blackbird, crow,
raven, oriole, kingbird, mockingbird, song sparrow or other songbird or
insectivorous bird; or in any manner molest or injure the nest eggs or young of
any such bird, or have in possession the nest, eggs, young or body of such
bird.
(Prior code 10-7-7; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 12
Fireworks
Sec. 10-12-10.   Definitions.
   As used in this Article, the following words shall have the definitions
ascribed to them, unless otherwise provided:
   Fireworks means and includes any article, device or substance prepared for
the primary purpose of producing a visual or auditory sensation by combustion,
explosion, deflagration or detonation, including without limitation the
following articles and devices commonly known and used as fireworks: toy
cannons, toy canes in which explosives are used, blank cartridges, the type of
balloon which requires fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, and Day-Glo bombs.
   Fireworks shall not include fountains, pinwheels, toy pistols, toy guns,
sparklers or torches which do not contain explosive charges or other devices in
which paper caps manufactured in accordance with the United State Interstate
Commerce Commission regulations for packing and shipping of toy paper caps are
used, and toy pistol paper caps manufactured as provided above.
(Prior code 10-5-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-12-20.   Unlawful to sell or use fireworks.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Article, it is unlawful for any person
to offer for sale, expose for sale, sell or have in his or her possession with
intent to offer for sale, sell or use any fireworks within the City.
(Prior code 10-5-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-12-30.   Permits.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to grant permits within the City
for supervised public displays of fireworks by the municipality, amusement
parks and other organizations and groups, and to adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for the granting of such permits. Application for a permit shall be
made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of display.
Every display shall be handled by a competent operator and shall be of such
character and so located, discharged and fired as not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person. Before a permit is granted, the Fire Chief
shall approve the operator and the location and handling of the display after
investigation. No permit shall be transferable or assignable.
(Prior code 10-5-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 10-12-40.   Bond required.
   A satisfactory bond shall be required of each permittee in the sum of not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), conditioned for the payment of all
damages which may be caused either to persons or property by reason of the
licensed display and arising from the acts of the permittee or his or her
agents, employees or subcontractors. The aggregate liability of the surety on
such bond for all damages in no event shall exceed the sum of such bond.
(Prior code 10-5-4)
Sec. 10-12-50.   Disposal of unfired fireworks.
   Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall be
immediately disposed of by the Fire Department using a method, which is safe
for the discharge of that or those particular types of fireworks.
(Prior code 10-5-4)
Sec. 10-12-60.   Seizure of fireworks.
   The Police Department shall seize, take and remove, at the expense of the
owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale,
stored or held in violation of this Article.
(Prior code 10-5-4)
Sec. 10-12-70.   Construction.
   This Article shall not be construed to prohibit:
   (1)   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his or her possession with intent to offer for sale or sell fireworks
to any municipality, fair association, amusement park or other organization or
group holding a permit issued as provided in this Article, or to the governing
body of any county or district fair, organized under state law.
   (2)   Any person from using or exploding fireworks in accordance with the
provisions in this Article or as a part of a supervised public display at any
county or district fair organized under state law.
   (3)   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling or
having in his or her possession with intent to offer for sale or sell any
fireworks which are to be sold and are shipped directly out of the State.
   (4)   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling, having
in his or her possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or
exploding any article, device or substance for a purpose other than display,
exhibition, noise, amusement or entertainment.
   (5)   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling, having
in his or her possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or
exploding blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial
purpose in organized athletics or sports.
   (6)   Any person from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling, having
in his or her possession with intent to offer for sale or sell, or using or
firing toy pistols, toy guns, sparklers or torches which do not contain
explosive charges or other devices in which paper caps manufactured in
accordance with United States Interstate Commerce Commission regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper caps are used, and toy pistol paper caps
manufactured as provided in this Article.
(Prior code 10-5-4; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 13
Miscellaneous Offenses
Sec. 10-13-10.   Parade, procession permits required.
   No funeral, procession or parade, excepting the forces of the United States
armed services, the military forces of the State, and the forces of the Police
and Fire Departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street or
roadway except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and
such other regulations as are set forth herein which may apply.
(Prior code 10-8-13)
Sec. 10-13-20.   Rock climbing.
   (a)   It is unlawful for anyone to attempt to climb any rock faces within
the City limits for recreational purposes.
   (b)   It is unlawful for anyone to attempt to climb any rock faces within
the City limits for any purpose without first having obtained permission from
the Chief of Police.
   (c)   The Chief of Police shall not grant any permission to climb the cliffs
in the City for any purposes except emergency, municipal or scientific
purposes.
(Ord. 312 §1, 2000; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
CHAPTER 11
Streets, Sidewalks and Public Property
Article 1   Streets and Sidewalks
   Sec.
11-1-10   Repair and maintenance
   Sec.
11-1-20   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks
   Sec.
11-1-30   Disposal of snow and ice in the Willow Creek Flume prohibited
   Sec.
11-1-40   Sidewalk displays
Article 2   Excavations
   Sec.
11-2-10   Definition of public lands
   Sec.
11-2-20   Standards, regulations and specifications
   Sec.
11-2-30   Reporting
   Sec.
11-2-40   Permit required
   Sec.
11-2-50   Penalties
ARTICLE 1
Streets and Sidewalks
Sec. 11-1-10.   Repair and maintenance.
   The owner, occupant, lessee or person in possession or control of any
premises or property shall maintain the sidewalks adjoining such premises or
property in good repair and in a safe, unobstructed condition, free of snow,
weeds and debris.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-1-20.   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks.
   (a)   Purpose and scope. The purpose of this Article is to require,
according to the terms hereof, responsible parties to remove snow and ice from
sidewalks immediately adjacent to structures owned or occupied by them and to
require such removal within a specified period of time.
   (b)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply herein:
   Period of time means a twenty-four-hour period from the point in time that
snow, as defined herein, commences to fall or that point in time when an
accumulation of snow creates a hazardous condition, whichever comes sooner.
   Responsible party means that person, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity against which action may be taken for violation of this Article.
Responsible party may be, but not by way of limitation, the owner, lessor,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant of any structure. Responsible party shall also
mean that person owning, leasing, occupying or otherwise claiming a legal
interest in and to a particular lot, building or parcel within the City, and
which lot, building or parcel has a sidewalk adjacent to, in on any side and on
any street within the community.
   Sidewalk means any structure of any material, which had been placed upon the
ground or otherwise installed adjacent to any street within the boundaries of
the City, which is utilized as a sidewalk, for the purpose of permitting the
safe passage of persons on foot about the community, adjacent to said street.
   Snow means any form of precipitation in the frozen form, be it snow, sleet,
hail, freezing rain or a build-up and accumulation of any of the foregoing,
causing a hazardous condition to persons attempting to use the sidewalk.
   (c)   Penalty.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
responsible party to permit the accumulation of snow on any sidewalk within the
City, for a period of time in excess of that set forth herein.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and will be punished in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-4-20 of this Code.
   (d)   Declaration of nuisance. The Board of Trustees hereby declares that
the accumulation of snow on any sidewalk within the City constitutes a public
nuisance and may, therefore, in addition to the penalty provision set forth
above, cause such accumulation to be removed from any offending sidewalk. The
cost of such removal shall be billed to the owner of such property or the
responsible party and shall be treated as a portion of that person's utility
indebtedness; and for nonpayment, such public utilities may be terminated until
payment is made in full.
(Ord. 203 §§1—4, 1976; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-1-30.   Disposal of snow and ice in the Willow Creek Flume prohibited.
   (a)   Purpose and scope. The purpose of this Article is to prohibit the
disposal of snow and ice by any responsible party in the Willow Creek Flume and
to provide for penalties associated with the violation of this provision.
   (b)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply herein:
      Period of time means a twenty-four (24) hour period from the point in
time that snow, as defined herein, commences to fall or that point in time when
an accumulation of snow creates a hazardous condition, whichever comes sooner.
      Responsible party means any person, partnership, corporation or other
legal entity against which action may be taken for violation of this Article.
      Snow means any form of precipitation in the frozen form, be it snow,
sleet, hail, ice, freezing rain or a build-up and accumulation of any of the
foregoing.
   (c)   Disposal of snow in the flume is prohibited. Disposal of snow in the
Willow Creek Flume by any person, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity, collectively referred to as a "responsible party" is prohibited.
   (d)   Penalty. Any responsible party that disposes of snow in the Willow
Creek Flume shall be subject to the general penalty for violation in Section 1-
4-20. (Ord. 420 § 1, 2020; Ord. 451 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 11-1-40.   Sidewalk displays.
   The owner or manager of a business upon abutting property making retail
sales to the public may, without a permit, display on a public sidewalk goods
or wares that are being offered for sale inside the business. Sidewalk displays
are subject to the following criteria:
   (a)   The location of the sidewalk display shall not reduce or obstruct
pedestrian passage on the sidewalk to less than five (5) feet to the nearest
street trees, utility poles, traffic control signs and devices, fire hydrants,
buildings, and other similar devices and structures. Furthermore, such
placement shall be consistent with any applicable standards established by the
Americans with Disabilities Act and shall not obstruct vehicular traffic or
parking or the use of any crosswalk, wheelchair ramp, bus or taxi zone.
   (b)   The display must leave entrances and driveways clear and may not
extend more than three (3) feet into the sidewalk under any circumstance.
   (c)   The display must be removed during those hours that the business is
closed. If the display is in place before sunrise or after sunset, the display
must be lighted and readily visible to passing pedestrians on the sidewalk.
   (d)   Sales of goods or merchandise displayed must occur on the abutting
privately owned property.
   (e)   The display may not contain liquor, tobacco, firearms, munitions, or
any article which a minor is prohibited by law from purchasing, or any material
restricted by the Fire Code from direct access or handling by the public.
   (f)   The display must be removed any time the Public Works Director, Chief
of Police, or Fire Chief determines that a clear sidewalk is needed and
requests removal for use of travel or transportation, street cleaning or
maintenance, street utility work, a crowd control event or parade, or an
emergency.
   (g)   The City assumes no responsibility for the items on display,
irrespective of whether the loss occurs through accident, collision, vandalism,
theft or otherwise.
   (h)   The abutting business must procure and maintain liability insurance,
naming the City of Creede as additional insured in the amount of $1,000,000.
(Ord. 422 § 1, 2020)
ARTICLE 2
Excavations
Sec. 11-2-10.   Definition of public lands.
   Public lands means lands owned or controlled by the City, to include
streets, sidewalks, alleys, railroad tracks, crossings, rights-of-way and all
other passageways within the City.
(Ord. 324, 2001; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-2-20.   Standards, regulations and specifications.
   The Public Works Department, in consultation with the City Manager and the
Public Works Director, shall develop standards, regulations and specifications
governing access, utilization and restoration of all streets, alleys and
rights-of-way within the corporate limits of the City, which standards,
regulations and specifications shall not constitute a barrier to the use and
excavation of City facilities, but shall preserve the integrity of the
facilities at the least possible cost to City taxpayers.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-2-30.   Reporting.
   The City Manager or Public Works Director shall report to the Board of
Trustees the particulars of such regulations, specifications and standards as
soon as possible, whereupon the same shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-2-40.   Permit required.
   (a)   Any repair, construction, building, remodeling or other functions
which damage or disturb the surface of public lands as defined above within the
City limits are prohibited until such time as the entity, owner or contractor
wishing to do the work has shown adequate reason for the proposed work, has
obtained a written permit and the utilities for the area involved have been
tagged by the City or appropriate entity. Approval of this permit will be valid
for one (1) specific purpose only, and each permit must be accompanied by an
insurance certificate naming the City as an additional insured in the amount
specified on the permit, together with proof of workers' compensation
insurance, equipment liability insurance and any other proof of insurance
coverage the City may deem necessary. The certificate of insurance must cover
liability for any injury to persons or property caused by the proposed project.
Self-insurance is not acceptable. The City reserves the right to demand
inspection of the entire insurance policy and endorsements, and will require at
least thirty (30) days' prior notification of cancellation or nonrenewable
during the course of the proposed project. In addition, a "hold-harmless"
indemnification agreement will be required from the permit applicant. A permit
application fee may be charged by the City to process an application.
   (b)   The City shall require a bond insuring that the City shall not be
responsible to pay for any damage to the public lands.
(Ord. 324 §1, 2001; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 11-2-50.   Penalties. Section
   Any violations of this Article shall be punishable in accordance with the
provisions of
1-4-20 of this Code. In addition, the City may seek an injunction against
continued operations which violate this Article.
(Ord. 324 §2, 2001; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
CHAPTER 12
Reserved
CHAPTER 13
Municipal Utilities
Article 1   General Provisions
   
Sec. 13-1-10   Authority
   
Sec. 13-1-20   Scope
   
Sec. 13-1-30   Policy
   
Sec. 13-1-40   Purpose
   
Sec. 13-1-50   Intent of construction
   
Sec. 13-1-60   Amendment
   
Sec. 13-1-70   Water Department created
   
Sec. 13-1-80   Public Works Director
   
Sec. 13-1-90   Definitions
Article 2   Ownership and Operation of Facilities
   
Sec. 13-2-10   Responsibilities
   
Sec. 13-2-20   Limitation of liability
   
Sec. 13-2-30   Ownership of facilities
   
Sec. 13-2-40   Right of entry
   
Sec. 13-2-50   Modification, waiver and suspension of rules
Article 3   Conditions of Use of Utility Systems
   
Sec. 13-3-10   Eligible users
   
Sec. 13-3-20   Commitment to serve
   
Sec. 13-3-30   Service outside City
   
Sec. 13-3-40   Application for service
   
Sec. 13-3-50   Denial of application
   
Sec. 13-3-60   Cancellation of application
   
Sec. 13-3-70   Moved or destroyed buildings
   
Sec. 13-3-80   Change in customer's equipment, service or use of property
   
Sec. 13-3-90   Unauthorized connections and fees
   
Sec. 13-3-100   Revocation of service
   
Sec. 13-3-110   Revocation of tap rights
   
Sec. 13-3-120   Turn-on/turn-off of service
   
Sec. 13-3-130   Failure to connect
Article 4   Water, Storm Drainage and Sewer Systems
   
Sec. 13-4-10   Unauthorized tampering with systems
   
Sec. 13-4-20   Water systems
   
Sec. 13-4-30   Sewer system
   
Sec. 13-4-40   Specially regulated wastes
   
Sec. 13-4-50   Prohibited wastes
   
Sec. 13-4-60   Pretreatment
   
Sec. 13-4-70   Sump pumps and other illegal devices
   
Sec. 13-4-80   Construction and cleaning of grease, oil and sand traps
   
Sec. 13-4-90   Swimming pools
   
Sec. 13-4-100   Responsibilities of customer
   
Sec. 13-4-110   Enforcement
Article 5   Service Extension Policies
   
Sec. 13-5-10   General policy
   
Sec. 13-5-20   Regional facilities
   
Sec. 13-5-30   Local facilities
   
Sec. 13-5-40   Permits required
   
Sec. 13-5-50   Permit issuance
   
Sec. 13-5-60   Fire protection service
   
Sec. 13-5-70   Service lines and connections
Article 6   Rates and Charges
   
Sec. 13-6-10   General
   
Sec. 13-6-20   Rebate agreements
   
Sec. 13-6-30   Tapping fees
   
Sec. 13-6-40   EQR Schedules
   
Sec. 13-6-50   System development fees
   
Sec. 13-6-60   Water resource fee
   
Sec. 13-6-70   Sewer system development fee
   
Sec. 13-6-80   Storm drainage system development fee
   
Sec. 13-6-90   Water service charges
   
Sec. 13-6-100   Sewer service charges
   
Sec. 13-6-110   Drainage service charges
   
Sec. 13-6-120   Construction water charge
   
Sec. 13-6-130   Transfer of fees
   
Sec. 13-6-140   Penalty for late payment
   
Sec. 13-6-150   Penalties for liens and foreclosure proceedings
Article 7   Hearing and Appeal Procedures
   
Sec. 13-7-10   Application
   
Sec. 13-7-20   Initial complaint; resolution
   
Sec. 13-7-30   Appeal to Board of Trustees
   
Sec. 13-7-40   Board of Trustees' findings
   
Sec. 13-7-50   Notice
Article 8   Water and Sewer Activity Enterprise
   
Sec. 13-8-10   Establishment of Enterprise
   
Sec. 13-8-20   Governing body
   
Sec. 13-8-30   Maintenance of Enterprise status
   
Sec. 13-8-40   Issuance of bonds
ARTICLE 1
General Provisions
Sec. 13-1-10.   Authority.
   The City is a governmental subdivision of the State of Colorado and a body
corporate with those powers of a public corporation that are specifically
granted for carrying out the objectives and purposes of the City.
(Ord. 334 §1.1, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-20.   Scope.
   This Chapter has been adopted and promulgated pursuant to Section 32-1-1001
(1)(m), C.R.S., and shall be treated and considered as new and comprehensive
regulations, governing the operations and functions of the City.
(Ord. 334 §1.2, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-30.   Policy.
   It is hereby declared that the provisions set forth in this Chapter will
serve a public use and are necessary to ensure and protect the health, safety,
prosperity, security and general welfare of the inhabitants of the City.
(Ord. 334 §1.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-40.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the orderly financing,
control, construction, management and operation of the water supply and
distribution system, the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system and the
drainage collection and transmission and detention systems of the City,
including additions, extensions and connections thereto.
(Ord. 334 §1.4, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-50.   Intent of construction.
   It is intended that this Chapter shall be liberally construed to effect the
general purposes set forth herein, and that each and every part thereof is
separate and distinct from all other parts. No omission or additional material
set forth in Chapter shall be construed as an alteration, waiver or deviation
from any grant of power, duty or responsibility, or limitation or restriction,
imposed or conferred upon the Board of Trustees by virtue of statutes now
existing or subsequently amended, or under any contract or agreement existing
between the City and any other governmental entity. Nothing contained herein
shall be so construed as to prejudice or affect the right of the City to secure
the full benefit and protection of any law which is now enacted or may
subsequently be enacted by the Colorado General Assembly pertaining to the
governmental or proprietary affairs of the City.
(Ord. 334 §1.5, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-60.   Amendment.
   It is specifically acknowledged that the City shall retain the power to
amend this Chapter as it deems appropriate, and such amendments shall be
entered in the Minutes of the City and periodically incorporated in printed
copies of this Chapter. Prior notice of these amendments shall not be required
to be provided by the City exercising its amendment powers pursuant to this
Section.
(Ord. 334 §1.6, 2005)
Sec. 13-1-70.   Water Department created.
   There is hereby created and established a Water Department of the City for
the purpose of the management, maintenance, care and operation of the
waterworks of the City.
(Ord. 184 §9-1-1, 1971)
Sec. 13-1-80.   Public Works Director.
   The Public Works Director shall have the immediate control and management of
all things pertaining to the waterworks system. He or she shall perform all
acts that may be necessary for the prudent, efficient and economical management
and protection of the waterworks, subject to the approval and confirmation of
the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall have the power to prescribe
such other and further rates, rules and regulations, as it may deem necessary.
(Ord. 184 §9-1-2, 1971; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-1-90.   Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used herein shall be as follows:
   Actual cost means all direct costs applicable to the construction of a given
facility, including surveys, preliminary and design engineering, construction,
inspection, administrative, regulatory agency fees, bond fees, all required
easements and/or rights-of-way, plan approval fees, ''as-built'' drawings,
attorneys' fees and other costs necessary for completion.
   City Manager means the City Manager or, in his or her absence, his or her
duly authorized agent.
   Board of Trustees means the governing body of the City.
   B.O.D. (Denoting five-day, 20 degrees Centigrade Biochemical Oxygen Demand)
means the amount of oxygen, which is utilized in the aerobic decomposition of
sewage under laboratory procedures in accordance with the current "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater."
   Customer means any person, company, corporation or governmental authority or
agency authorized to use the public water, sewer or drainage systems under a
permit issued or otherwise authorized by the Board of Trustees or the City
Manager.
   Customer facilities means those facilities intended to serve one (1)
customer only. Examples are water service lines and sewer service lines.
   Developer means the person, firm, joint venture, partnership or corporation,
which owns undeveloped land, i.e., land that does not have immediate access to
water or sewer lines, and which seeks to have the land served by the City.
   Engineer means the engineering firm, or duly authorized representative
(engineer), designated by the City to act on its behalf in all engineering and
related matters. This item includes a construction inspector employed by the
Engineer or City.
   EQR is an abbreviation for Equivalent Residential Unit, which is an average
single-family detached residence or the equivalent, from a systems demand
standpoint.
   Industrial wastes means the liquid wastes from industrial processes, as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Inspector means the City Manager, Public Works Director, Engineer, agent,
officers and employees of the City or other person so designated by the City
Manager to perform inspections pursuant to this Chapter.
   Local facilities means those facilities generally designed primarily to
serve individual subdivisions or plats. Examples are: water distribution
systems, collector sewer lines and storm drainage collection systems.
   Master Plan means the adopted Master Plan of the City, as amended from time
to time.
   Oversize costs is applicable to part of the costs of a water distribution
line, a collection sewer line or a storm sewer to be installed within or for a
subdivision; but for which the City has also assigned a transmission function
that results in the need for a larger conduit. Oversize costs are the
incremental difference between the actual costs of the size line required by
the City and the size required by the developer; however; for purposes of
determining oversize, the minimum size shall be assumed to be eight-inch
diameter for water; eight (8) inches for sanitary sewer; eighteen (18) inches
for storm sewer – only pipe larger may be considered oversized. Engineering and
inspection costs are assumed to be proportional to estimated or experienced
construction costs. Incremental costs will be allowed for line fittings,
valves, manholes and other appurtenances (if a size increase is required).
   Owner means the land's record titleholder or lessee with planning powers.
   Permit means written permission of the City authorizing connection to a
water or sewer main of the City, granting the applicant a license to use the
water and sewer systems or to receive water or sewer service from the system
owned, operated or served by the City.
   Person means any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group.
   Regional facilities mean those facilities generally serving the City's
service areas as a whole. Examples are: water sources, water treatment plants
and tanks, water transmission lines, trunk sewers, sewage treatment plant,
major drain ways, storm water detention ponds and outlet works.
   Sewer or sewer main means a City-owned sewer pipeline and tap, carrying
sanitary sewage or approved industrial wastes only, and shall be installed in a
public street or easement.
   Sewer service line means the privately owned sewer line extending from the
building drain to the sewer main tap onto the sewer main.
   Sewage means any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in
suspension or solution from residences, commercial buildings, institutions and
industrial establishments.
   Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
   Suspended solids means the weight of filterable solids in milligrams present
in one (1) liter of sewage.
   System Development Fees (SDF) is a one-time, nonrefundable, capital fee
assessed new customers (or existing customers having expanding demands) for
connecting to, or utilizing each of, the City's utilities. The System
Development represents the new customer's share in the City's equity in the
regional facilities committed to serve that new customer.
   Water main means a City-owned water pipeline carrying potable water only,
and shall be installed in a public street or easement.
   Water service line (lateral) means the privately owned water line extending
from the curb valve and box to the customer's building. The City shall own, and
be responsible for, that part of the service line in the public right-of-way or
easement from the main tap to the curb valve and box. The customer shall own
and be responsible for the remainder.
(Ord. 334 §1.7, 2005)
ARTICLE 2
Ownership and Operation of Facilities
Sec. 13-2-10.   Responsibilities.
   (a)   It is the City's responsibility to plan, finance, design and construct
all designated regional facilities. The City will only construct such
facilities, or portions thereof, when the Board of Trustees has made a
determination that such construction is economically feasible. Such
determination may require the owner/ developer to prepay or guarantee future
payment of System Development Fees, or other special arrangements as the City
may determine necessary.
   (b)   It is the owner/developer's responsibility to finance, design and
construct all local facilities. Such facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City Engineer, and in
accordance with minimum standards adopted by the City. The owner/developer
shall pay the actual cost of all such facilities.
   (c)   It is the responsibility of the customer or his or her builder to pay
the actual cost and construct all customer service lines. Such service
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards approved by the
City, and shall be inspected by the City prior to use.
   (d)   After construction, the City will be responsible for the maintenance,
operation and replacement of all regional and local facilities (except as
provided during the warranty period). The individual customers shall be
responsible for the maintenance and replacement of all customer facilities,
with the exception of water meters and that part of each service line owned by
the City, which shall become the property and responsibility of the City. The
City shall not be liable or responsible for inadequate water delivery, sewage
treatment or interruption of any services brought about by circumstances beyond
its control.
(Ord. 334 §2.1, 2005)
Sec. 13-2-20.   Limitation of liability.
   (a)   It is expressly stipulated that no claim for damages shall be made
against the City by reason of the following: blockage in the system causing the
backup of effluent; damage caused by "smoking" of lines to determine drainage
connections to City lines; breakage of water or sewer main lines by City
personnel; interruption of water or sewer service and the conditions resulting
therefrom; breaking of any collection or service line, pipe, valve or meter by
any employee of the City; failure of the water supply; shutting off or turning
on water; making of connections or extensions; damage caused by water running
or escaping from open or defective faucets; burst service lines and other
facilities not owned by the City; damage to water heaters, boilers or other
appliances resulting from shutting water off, or for turning it on, or from
inadequate or sporadic pressures; or for doing anything to the systems of the
City deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or its agents.
   (b)   The City shall have no responsibility for notification to customers of
any of the foregoing conditions. The City reserves the right to discontinue
temporarily service to any property at any time for any reason deemed necessary
or appropriate by the Board of Trustees. The City shall have the right to
revoke service to any property for violations of this Chapter in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this Chapter.
(Ord. 334 §2.2, 2005)
Sec. 13-2-30.   Ownership of facilities.
   (a)   All existing and future regional and local facilities connected with,
and forming an integral part of, the City's system and accepted for operation
and maintenance pursuant to this Chapter shall become and are the property of
the City, unless any contract with an owner or customer provides otherwise.
Said ownership will remain valid whether the lines and treatment works are
constructed, financed, paid for or otherwise acquired by the City, or by other
persons.
   (b)   That portion of all existing or future services lines extending from
the water meter or sewer main line to each unit or building for each customer
that is connected with and forms an integral part of the City's water or sewer
system shall become and is the property of the owner/customer. This principle
shall not be changed by the fact that the City might construct, finance, pay
for, repair, maintain or otherwise affect the customer's service line. The
construction of, and connection of, any service line shall be done in
compliance with this Chapter. The owner/customer's ownership of the service
line shall not entitle the customer to make unauthorized uses of the City's
systems once the service line has been connected to a City main line. All uses
of the service line or any appurtenances thereto at any time after the initial
connection to the City system shall be subject to this Chapter.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the above, all water meters and curb valves shall
become and are the property of the City after acceptance of such meters and
curb valves for maintenance by the City. Said ownership shall remain valid
whether the meters and/or curb valves are installed, financed, paid for,
repaired or maintained by another person or whether the meters and/or curb
valves are located on privately owned and maintained service lines, in
privately owned areas.
(Ord. 334 §2.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-2-40.   Right of entry.
   The City Manager, inspector, agent, officers, employees of the City or other
person so designated by the City Manager, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter. The granting of right of entry by the
owner and occupant is a condition precedent and a condition subsequent to the
provision of public water, storm drainage and sewer service. If a water meter
or curb valve is located on private property, the right of access to service
and check these facilities is given to the City as a condition of providing
utility service.
(Ord. 334 §2.4, 2005)
Sec. 13-2-50.   Modification, waiver and suspension of rules.
   The Board of Trustees, or the City Manager acting on instructions of the
Board of Trustees, shall have the sole authority to waive, suspend or modify
this Chapter, and any such waiver, suspension or modification must be in
writing, signed by the Board of Trustees or City Manager. Such waiver shall not
be deemed an amendment of this Chapter. No waiver will be deemed a continuing
waiver.
(Ord. 334 §2.5, 2005)
ARTICLE 3
Conditions of Use of Utility Systems
Sec. 13-3-10.   Eligible users.
   Water, wastewater and drainage services will be furnished subject to this
Chapter and only to property included within and subject to fees, charges and
taxation by the City. It shall be incumbent upon the applicant to furnish
satisfactory evidence whenever the City requests such evidence. Satisfactory
evidence shall consist of a tax receipt or certification in lieu thereof
received and signed by the County Treasurer. An exception to this rule requires
a special service contract approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 334 §3.1, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-20.   Commitment to serve.
   A request submitted to the City by a property owner for a confirmation or a
commitment to serve the property with water, drainage and/or sewer services
will be granted by the City only after such property owner has signed a System
Development Fees Agreement as required by Section
13-5-50 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 334 §3.2, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-30.   Service outside City.
   No service shall ever be provided to property outside of the City, except
pursuant to the terms of a written agreement with the City approved by the
Board of Trustees. Charges for furnishing service outside of the City shall be
at the discretion of the Board of Trustees. Service outside the City limits
will be no less than one and one-half (1½) and no more than two (2) times the
cost of those same charges for which such property would be responsible if it
were within the City limits. In every case where the City furnishes service to
property outside the City, the City reserves the right to discontinue the
service when, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees, it is in the best
interest of the City to do so. An exception to this rule requires specific
reference in a service contract approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 334 §3.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-40.   Application for service.
   (a)   An application for service must be filed with the City on forms
provided by the City and accompanied by appropriate fees prior to any action to
connect to the system. Only upon authorized approval of the application and a
receipt therefor may a connection to the system be made. The location of the
water meter and the remote reading device (if required) shall be indicated on
all applications for service.
   (b)   If a fire protection water sprinkler system is to be used, a plan of
the system is to accompany the application and is subject to the approval of
the City. All fire sprinkler systems shall meet NFPA requirements and
additionally shall meet the requirements of all applicable fire protection,
City, County and State building and fire protection codes. If a water sprinkler
system for lawn irrigation is to be used, it must be on a metered service.
   (c)   No taps will be permitted or made during nonbusiness hours without
specific, written approval of the City Manager.
   (d)   All information requested on the tap application form must be
completed, and a diagram of the meter and tap location preference shall be
provided. Should any information disclosed on the application prove at any time
to be false, or should the applicant omit any information, the City shall have
the right to reassess the System Development Fees originally charged at the
rate current to the discovery by the City of the false or omitted information,
disconnect the service in question, back-charge the property in question for
service fees that may be due and owing, and/or charge any other or additional
fee or penalty specified in this Chapter. Any reassessment shall be due and
payable, together with any penalties or other additional fees charged, and
interest at the maximum legal rate on the entire balance, upon and from the
date of the original application.
(Ord. 334 § 3.4, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-3-50.   Denial of application.
   The City reserves the exclusive right to deny application for service when,
in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the service applied for would create
an excessive seasonal, or other, demand on the facilities. Denial may also be
based upon an unresolved obligation between the City and the applicant,
inadequate documentation of easements for main lines that service the property,
or any other reason as determined by the City Manager and/or the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 334 §3.5, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-60.   Cancellation of application.
   The City reserves the right to revoke any prior approval of an application
before service has been provided and, thereafter, for any violation of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 334 §3.6, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-70.   Moved or destroyed buildings.
   When buildings are moved or destroyed, the original tap authorization shall
terminate, and no credit shall be authorized for System Development Fees paid
previously with respect to said building. However, the original tap shall
remain in good standing, provided that uninterrupted payment of the City's
minimum service charge (as the same may be amended from time to time) is made.
If payment of the minimum service charge ceases for any reason, said tap shall
be in violation of this Chapter, and the tap shall be revoked. Nonpayment
within thirty (30) days of the billing shall be considered cessation of payment
of the minimum service charge.
(Ord. 334 §3.7, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-80.   Change in customer's equipment, service or use of property.
   (a)   No change in the customer's equipment, service or use of property
served shall be made without the prior notification of and approval by the
City. Any such change which, in the opinion of the City, will increase the
burden placed on the City's utility systems by the customer shall require a
redetermination of the System Development Fees and monthly service charge and a
payment by the customer of any additional System Development Fees and monthly
service charge resulting from the redetermination.
   (b)   Any violation of Section
13-3-90 below shall result in the assessment of an unauthorized connection fee,
and the City shall take those steps authorized by this Chapter and state law
regarding the collection of said fees.
   (c)   Any customer believed to have changed the equipment, service or use of
his or her property in violation of this Section shall be notified of such
belief by the City, shall be notified of the City's intent to assess any
additional System Development Fees, service or unauthorized connection fees and
shall be afforded ten (10) days in which to respond to the City's notice.
Failure to respond as required herein within the ten-day period shall be deemed
to establish the City's belief concerning the nature and extent of the change,
and such additional System Development Fees, service and unauthorized
connection fees as are deemed appropriate by the City shall be assessed against
the property in question and shall be collected as provided under this Chapter
and state law. To defer the collection of said fees, and as a prerequisite to
the right to hearing as provided for and described in Article 7 of this
Chapter, any response by the customer must, in addition to being provided in
ten (10) days, include permission to make such inspection of the property in
question as the City Manager deems necessary to clearly establish the nature of
equipment, service and use of the property in question.
(Ord. 334 § 3.8, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-3-90.   Unauthorized connections and fees.
   No person shall be allowed to connect to the sewer or water systems, or to
enlarge or otherwise change equipment, service or use of property without prior
payment of System Development Fees, approval of an application for service, and
adequate supervision and inspection of the taps by City employees. Any such
connection, enlargement or change shall be deemed an unauthorized connection.
Upon the discovery of any unauthorized connections, the then-current System
Development Fees shall become immediately due and payable, and the property
shall automatically be assessed an unauthorized connection fee. The
unauthorized connection fee is an amount equal to twice the then-current System
Development Fees that would be due for such property. The City shall send
written notice to the owner of the property benefited by such connections
stating that an unauthorized connection has been made between the owner's
property and the City facilities. The owner shall then have ten (10) days from
the date of the notice to pay the then-current System Development Fees. If that
fee is paid within the ten-day period, the City shall waive the unauthorized
connection fee. In the event the then-current System Development Fees are not
paid within the ten-day period, a notice of revocation of service shall be sent
and service shall be disconnected pursuant to Section
13-3-110 below. Once discontinued, service may be returned to the property only
upon receipt by the City of both the unauthorized connection fee and the then-
current System Development Fees, and any turn-on/turn-off fees, service charges
or any other charges that my be due, the City also reserves such rights of
foreclosure as may be provided by law for the collection of unpaid fees and
charges of the City.
(Ord. 334 §3.9, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-100.   Revocation of service.
   (a)   Service may be revocable by the City upon nonpayment of any valid fees
or charges owing to the City. In the event of nonpayment, the customer shall be
given not less than ten (10) days' advance notice in writing of the revocation,
which notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The reason for the revocation;
      (2)   That the customer has the right to contact the City, and the manner
in which the City may be contacted for the purpose of resolving the
obligations; and
      (3)   That there exists an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with
Article 7 of this Chapter.
   (b)   If the obligation is not resolved within the time prescribed, service
to the property shall be revoked by blocking or disconnecting the appropriate
line serving the property. The cost of disconnection or blockage shall be
assessed to the customer. The customer may request a hearing in accordance with
Article 7 of this Chapter.
   (c)   If payment of the outstanding obligation or a request for a hearing
with the accompanying deposit is not received by the City within ten (10) days
of the date of mailing of the revocation notice, the City Manager shall
disconnect the service and the customer shall be assessed the cost of the
disconnection. Deposit for service, if any, shall be applied against the
outstanding obligation.
(Ord. 334 §3.10, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-110.   Revocation of tap rights.
   The right to connect to the City's system and receive services shall be
revocable by the City upon nonpayment of any City fees owing to the City and
remaining unpaid for a period of twelve (12) months, and whether or not the
customer owning the right to connect has actually connected to the City's
system. Such revocations shall be conducted in accordance with Section
13-3-100 above. If the right to connect to the City system is revoked, the
customer may reacquire such tap rights only by reapplying for service in
accordance with Section
13-3-40 above and after paying all fees due and owing the City.
(Ord. 334 §3.11, 2005)
Sec. 13-3-120.   Turn-on/turn-off of service.
   Any turn-on or turn-off of water or sewer service through a curb valve on a
service line that has been connected to the City's water or sewer system
pursuant to a request issued to the City shall be performed only by City
personnel, regardless of the ownership of the curb valve or service line and
regardless of the circumstances respecting the turn-on or turn-off. The City
shall assess a single turn-off/turn-on charge in an amount as set forth in the
fee schedule for any such turn-on and turn-off performed, except when the
service is performed for customers requiring maintenance to their service line,
in which case there shall be no charge.
(Ord. 334 § 3.12, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-3-130.   Failure to connect.
   The customer's right to connect to a City system shall terminate and any tap
fee paid shall be forfeited if the tap is not connected to the City's
facilities within twelve (12) months of the payment of the tap fees unless:
   (1)   The property owner begins to pay, and continues to pay, the standby
fee imposed for that tap for each and every month, commencing with the first
billing cycle after the twelve-month period has passed; and
   (2)   The property owner pays the turn-on/turn-off fee provided by and
pursuant to Section
13-3-120 above, if applicable.
(Ord. 334 § 3.13, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 4
Water, Storm Drainage and Sewer Systems
Sec. 13-4-10.   Unauthorized tampering with systems.
   (a)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, use, alter, disturb, make any
connection with or opening onto, use, alter or disturb the water, storm
drainage or sewer system without first obtaining a written permit from the
City. Unauthorized uses of the City's systems include, but are not limited to,
an unauthorized turn-on or turn-off of water, storm drainage or sewer service,
or tampering or in any way modifying any meter, even though the same may be
performed on a privately owned and maintained service line.
   (b)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any portion of the City's system.
   (c)   Any person who violates the provisions of this Section shall be
prosecuted to the full extent of state law.
   (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of such violation; and, upon nonpayment thereof, at the demand of the City
Manager, shall be assessed a penalty in an amount set forth in the City's fee
schedule. Said penalty shall be a lien upon the violator's property, as allowed
by Section 32-1-1001, C.R.S., or a lien upon the property concerning which the
violator was providing services at the time of the violation in question,
whichever the City Manager deems appropriate.
(Ord. 334 §4.1, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-20.   Water systems.
   (a)   The City's potable water system has been planned and constructed to
provide potable water for conventional domestic and commercial uses and fire
protection and irrigation water for single-family residential uses. Persons
wanting to use the water system for an industrial or high-demand commercial
water supply, which could be expected to require large quantities of water or
unusual demand rates, shall be required to submit demand data as to water use
before a permit will be issued. Said permit may contain use limitations as
determined necessary by the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Backflow prevention devices; cross-connection control.
      (1)   Purpose.
         a.   To protect the City's potable water supply from the possibility
of contamination or pollution by isolating within the customer's internal
distribution systems or the customer's private water systems such contaminants
or pollutants that could backflow into the public water system.
         b.   To promote the elimination of existing cross-connections, actual
or potential, between the customer's on-site potable water systems and non-
potable water systems, and plumbing fixtures.
         c.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of
backflow prevention and cross-connection control that will systematically and
effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of all potable water
systems.
      (2)   Definitions. As used in this Article, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:
         Active date means the first day that a backflow prevention assembly or
backflow prevention method is used to control a cross-connection in each
calendar year.
         Air gap is a physical separation between the free-flowing discharge
end of a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving
vessel installed in accordance with standard AMSE A112.1.2.
         Approved means accepted by the authority responsible as meeting an
applicable specification stated or cited in this Article or as suitable for the
proposed use.
         Backflow means the undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures
of water and other liquids, gases or other substances into the public water
systems distribution system from any source or sources other than its intended
source.
         Backflow contamination event means the backflow into a public water
system from an uncontrolled cross-connection such that the water quality no
longer meets the Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations or presents an
immediate health and/or safety risk to the public.
         Backflow prevention assembly means any mechanical assembly installed
at a water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow
contamination event, provided that the mechanical assembly is appropriate for
the identified contaminant at the cross-connection and is an in-line field-
testable assembly.
         Backflow prevention method means any method and/or non-testable device
installed at a water service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a
backflow contamination event, provided that the method or non-testable device
is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross-connection.
         Backpressure means a pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused
by a pump, elevated tank, boiler, or any other means that may cause backflow.
         Backsiphonage means backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure in
the supply piping.
         Certified cross-connection control technician means a person who
possesses a valid backflow prevention assembly tester certification from one of
the following approved organizations: American Society of Sanitary Engineering
(ASSE) or the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA). If a
certification has expired, the certification is invalid.
         Contamination means the installation of a backflow prevention assembly
or a backflow prevention method at any connection to the public water system
that supplies an auxiliary water system, location, facility, or area such that
backflow from a cross-connection into the public water system is prevented.
         Controlled means having a properly installed, maintained, and tested
or inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method that
prevents backflow through a cross-connection.
         Cross-connection means any connection that could allow any water,
fluid, or gas such that the water quality could present an unacceptable health
and/or safety risk to the public, to flow from any pipe, plumbing fixture, or a
customer's water system into the City water system's distribution system or any
other part of the public water system through backflow.
         Hazard, degree of is derived from an evaluation of the potential risk
to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water
system.
         Hazard, health means a cross-connection or potential cross-connection
involving any substance that could, if introduced into the potable water
supply, cause death or illness, spread disease, or have a high probability of
causing such effects.
         Hazard, non-health means a cross-connection or potential cross-
connection involving any substance that generally would not be a health hazard
but would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, if
introduced into the potable water supply.
         Multi-family means a single residential connection to the public water
system's distribution system from which two (2) or more separate dwelling units
are supplied water.
         Pollution means the presence of any foreign substance in water that
tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a non-health hazard or impair
the usefulness of the water.
         Service connection means the terminal end of a service connection from
the public potable water system, that is, where the water purveyor loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer's water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service
connection, then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the
meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of
any meter or backflow prevention assembly located at the point of delivery to
the customer's water system. Service connection shall also include water
service connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency
water service connections from the public potable water system.
         Single family means:
            1.   A single dwelling which is occupied by a single family and is
supplied by a separate service line; or
            2.   A single dwelling comprised of multiple living units where
each living unit is supplied by a separate service line.
         Uncontrolled means not having a properly installed and maintained and
tested or inspected backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method,
or the backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method does not
prevent backflow through a cross-connection.
         Water, non-potable means water that is not safe for human consumption
or that is of questionable quality.
         Water, potable means water that is safe for human consumption as
described by the public health authority having jurisdiction.
      (3)   Backflow prevention/cross-connection requirements. An approved
backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on water service lines to all
commercial, industrial, and multi-family water system connections that require
one pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         a.   The following commercial, industrial, and multi-family uses shall
install a backflow prevention device:
            1.   Dry cleaning and laundries
            2.    Mortuaries;
            3.   Hair salons;
            4.    Laboratories;
            5.   Auto repair shops;
            6.   Car washes;
            7.   Bulk fill water stations;
            8.    Restaurants;
            9.    Hospitals, dental facilities, medical facilities and clinics,
and blood banks;
            10.    Veterinary, pet stores, and livestock facilities;
            11.    Manufacturing facilities;
            12.   Green houses and agricultural commerce; and
            13.   Other commercial and industrial service connections that
contain any of the following plumbing arrangements or systems:
               A.    Fire suppression systems;
               B.    Irrigation systems including dedicated irrigation
connected directly to the water main;
               C.    Chemical process systems, including chemicals connected
for temporary maintenance;
               D.    Hydronic heating and cooling systems, industrial boilers,
chillers, cooling towers, double wall heat exchangers and solar panels; and
               E.    Auxiliary water sources, display fountains, hot tubs,
pools, reclaimed water systems, graywater systems and onsite storage tanks.
         b.   Appropriate backflow prevention assembly or method required.
            1.   All backflow prevention devices required under this Section
shall comply with the provisions of the City's currently adopted plumbing code.
            2.   The term approved backflow-prevention assembly shall mean an
assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the following: American Water Works Association (AWWA), American
Society of Safety Engineers (ASSE), Canadian Standards Association (CSA), and/
or the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME).
         c.   Inspection, testing and repair.
            1.    Backflow prevention devices or methods shall be tested by a
certified cross-connection control technician upon installation and tested at
least once annually, thereafter. Said tests shall be conducted at the expense
of the customer.
            2.   Any backflow prevention devices or methods that are non-
testable shall be inspected at least once annually by a certified cross-
connection control technician. The inspections shall be made at the expense of
the customer.
            3.   As necessary, backflow prevention devices shall be repaired
and retested or replaced and tested at the expense of the customer whenever the
devices are found to be defective.
            4.   Testing gauges shall be tested and calibrated for accuracy at
least once annually.
            5.   Copies of test reports, repairs and retests, or replacements
shall be kept by the customer for a minimum of three (3) years.
            6.   Copies of test reports, repairs and retests, and/or
replacements shall be submitted to the City in person, by mail, or by email
within three (3) business days from the testing company or testing technician.
            7.    Information on test reports shall include, at a minimum:
               A.    Assembly or method type;
               B.    Assembly or method location;
               C.    Assembly make, model and serial number;
               D.    Assembly size;
               E.    Test date;
               F.    Test results including all results that would justify a
pass or fail outcome;
               G.    Certified cross-connection control technician
certification agency;
               H.    Technician's certification number;
               I.    Technician's certification expiration date;
               J.    Test kit manufacturer, model and serial number; and
               K.    Test kit calibration date;
         d.   Surveys.
            1.   All commercial, industrial, and multi-family service
connections shall be subject to a survey for cross-connections issued by the
City. If said survey indicates that a backflow prevention device is required
pursuant to the provisions of this Section, an appropriate backflow prevention
assembly and/or method shall be installed at the customer's water service
connection, at the sole expense of the owner, within one hundred twenty (120)
days of notice.
            2.   The City Manager or designee shall have the right of entry to
review and/or perform a survey on any and all buildings and premises for the
presence of cross-connections for possible contamination risk to and for
determining compliance with this section. This right of entry shall be a
condition of water service in order to protect the health, safety and welfare
of customers throughout the City water system's distribution system.
         e.   Backflow prevention device location.
            1.    Backflow prevention assemblies and methods shall be installed
in a location which provides access for maintenance, testing and repair.
            2.   The assembly shall be installed downstream of the water meter
on the customer's property, if applicable, or in a location deemed practical by
the certified technician, subject to approval by the City.
            3.   In no case shall it be permissible to have connections or tees
between the meter, if applicable, and the containment backflow prevention
assembly. In instances where a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer
cannot be installed, the owner must install approved backflow prevention
devices or methods at all cross-connections within the owner's plumbing system.
          f.   Violations.
            1.   If a backflow prevention device is required to be installed
pursuant to the provisions of this section, the city shall give notice in
writing to the owner of the water supply connection. The notice and order shall
state that the owner must install a backflow prevention assembly or method at
each service connection to the owner’s premises. The notice and order shall
give the owner one hundred twenty (120) days to install the required device or
method. If the assembly or method is not installed within one hundred twenty
(120) days of notice, the city shall discontinue water service to the premises
until such requirements have been satisfactorily met as determined by the city.
            2.   Pursuant to subdivision (3)c.1. above, installed backflow
prevention devices must be inspected and tested annually by a certified
technician at the owner’s expense. A report indicating that the backflow
prevention device is working properly must be submitted to the city upon
completion of the inspection by the certified technician. If the owner fails to
conduct an annual test or to provide the report of the annual test to the city
upon completion of inspection, the city shall give notice in writing to the
owner of the water supply connection. The notice and order shall state that the
owner must conduct the annual test pursuant to the provisions of this section.
The notice and order shall give the owner one hundred twenty (120) days to
conduct the test. If the annual test is not conducted and the report for the
test submitted to the city within one hundred (120) days of notice, the city
shall discontinue water service to the premises until such requirements have
been satisfactorily met as determined by the city.
            3.   If a dispute or a conflict arises between the Colorado
Plumbing Code as adopted herein, and any plumbing, mechanical, building,
electrical, fire or other code adopted by the state, then the most stringent
provisions of such respective code shall prevail. (Ord. 334 §4.2, 2005; Ord.
438 §1, 2022; Ord. 450 § 1, 2024)
Sec. 13-4-30.   Sewer system.
   (a)   The sanitary sewer system is for the disposal of water contaminated by
biodegradable wastes. No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, surface drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to the City's sanitary sewer system.
In order to protect the City's sewage system from damage, destruction,
deterioration, misuse or malfunction and to guard against health hazards and
the creation of public nuisance, the regulations contained in this Article
shall apply relative to the discharge of sewage containing deleterious wastes.
   (b)   A septic facility may not be utilized within the City service area
unless a special permit is obtained from the City.
   (c)   The storm sewer system is to be used for the transmission of natural
surface water and uncontaminated groundwater only. No pollutants, trash or
other deleterious substances shall be placed in the City's storm sewer systems,
or area tributary to this system, when entry to the system is likely.
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-40.   Specially regulated wastes.
   (a)   Industrial wastes. No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any industrial waste of any type into the City's sanitary sewer or storm sewer
system unless written permission is received from the City.
   (b)   Inflow/infiltration. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the sanitary sewer of the City storm water drainage from the
ground surface, roof leaders, catch basins, or any other source, or subsurface
drainage or groundwater.
   (c)   Other wastes. Industrial cooling water, unpolluted process waters,
bakery/restaurant wastes, car washing wastes, swimming pool drainage and floor
drainage from enclosed and covered areas may be connected to the sanitary
sewerage system only by a special permit from the City. A permit for such
purpose will be considered by the City based upon an application containing the
following general information:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner.
      (2)   Location of the property for which the request is made.
      (3)   Description of the facility or operation requested for connection.
      (4)   Estimated quantities and qualities of the waste to be discharged,
including maximum rates.
      (5)   Plans and specifications of related waste-generating processes and
any pretreatment processes.
   (d)   The City may issue permits for the connections conditioned upon the
following, but not limited to:
      (1)   The construction of flow-measuring and/or sampling devices.
      (2)   The construction of valves or gates to stop flows on an emergency
basis.
      (3)   The construction of grease, oil and sand traps, or other
pretreatment facilities.
(Ord. 334 § 4.3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-4-50.   Prohibited wastes.
   (a)   Toxic or nonbiodegradable waste or any wastes which could make the
effluent not within state standards after providing conventional treatment
shall not be discharged into the sewer systems. No drain accepting discharge
from vehicle wash racks, filling stations, restaurants or other building sewers
as specified by the City shall be connected to any sewer service line unless
the discharge first passes through an acceptable grease, sand or oil
interceptor.
   (b)   Except as provided herein, no person shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having temperatures higher than one hundred
four (104) degrees Fahrenheit.
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100)
ppm by weight of animal or vegetable fat, oil or grease.
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, gas, oil or grease.
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded to less than one-
half (½) inch in the largest dimension.
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper and normal operation of the sewage works.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive or toxic property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.
      (7)   Any water or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans, animals or fish, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant effluent.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      (9)   Any noxious substances or malodorous waste, waters, gases or
substance capable of creating a public nuisance, either in the public sewer or
at the sewage treatment plant.
      (10)   A five-day B.O.D. concentration greater than three hundred (300)
ppm.
      (11)   A concentration of more than three hundred (300) ppm of suspended
solids.
      (12)   Concentrated wastes from septic tanks and portable sanitary
devices.
      (13)   A peak flow rate greater than five (5) times the average flow
rate.
      (14)   Any chemicals having a twenty-four-hour proportionate composite
sample concentration at the point of discharge in excess of the following:
Cadmium                  0.1 mg/l
Chromium                 5.0 mg/l
Copper                   3.0 mg/l
Cyanides                 2.0 mg/l
Iron                     15.0 mg/l
Phenol                   10.0 mg/l
H 2 S (Hydrogen Sulfide) 1.0 mg/l
Zinc                     2.0 mg/l
 
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-60.   Pretreatment.
   Where necessary, and the City determinations shall be final, the customer
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary. Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waste or
water, they shall meet with the approval of the City for adequacy of design
and, once built, shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the customer. When required by the City, the customer of any
property served by a service line carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole or monitoring point in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole or
monitoring point shall be accessible, safely located and constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City. The manhole or
monitoring point shall be installed and maintained by the customer at his or
her expense.
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-70.   Sump pumps and other illegal devices.
   No plumbing fixture, device, construction or plumbing system shall be
installed within any building or improvement which will provide a connection
between the sanitary sewer system of the City, directly or indirectly, or with
a sewer service line for the purpose of draining ground or surface waters into
the sanitary sewer system of the City. No physical connection shall be
permitted whereby a sewer service line is connected to a sump pump or other
facility in such a manner that, through the manipulation of valves, because of
lack of back pressure valves, or because of any other arrangement, it is
possible to drain flood, overflow, drain, storm or groundwater directly or
indirectly into the sewer system of the City. Any person having connected, or
permitting to be connected, such a forbidden system to a service line or the
main sewer line of the City may be summarily ordered to disconnect such
forbidden device or pumping system at his or her cost; and, upon failure to do
so, the City may forthwith disconnect any sewer line from the property
containing such a forbidden device or pumping system at the mainline sewer of
the City, the cost of which shall be a lien and charge against the property
involved. No sewer service line shall thereafter be connected to the sewer
system of the City without payment of all disconnection fees to the City and
costs and expenses of the City relative thereto, and positive proof that such
improper illegal connection or device has been removed and will not thereafter
be reconnected to the sanitary sewer system of the City.
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-80.   Construction and cleaning of grease, oil and sand traps.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at the sole cost and
expense of the customer when, in the opinion of the City Manager, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease, oil,
etc., in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients. All interceptors shall be located as to be readily available and
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be in
an accessible location for maintenance and inspection and shall be constructed
of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be watertight and, if necessary as determined by the
City, gastight and vented. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be maintained by the customer at his or her expense, in
continually efficient operation at all times. The City requires a monthly or
periodic cleaning and pumping of any grease traps as approved by the City
Manager. Periodic inspections shall be made of sand and grease traps and
interceptors, and, in the event the customer is in violation of this Chapter,
the customer shall be liable for payment of a penalty in an amount as set forth
in the City's fee schedule.
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-90.   Swimming pools.
   No public or private swimming pool shall be connected to the sewer system
without first obtaining a special permit from the City. Such permit shall
define and specify the hours during which water may be discharged from such
pools into the sewer system and prescribe the fees and charges thereof.
(Ord. 334 §4.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-4-100.   Responsibilities of customer.
   (a)   Water service lines.
      (1)   Each customer shall be responsible for maintaining the entire
length of his or her water service line downstream of the meter pit. The
customer shall repair damage or breaks in the water service line within
seventy-two (72) hours from the time of notification of such condition by the
City. If satisfactory progress toward repairing the leak has not been made by
the time specified, the City shall have the authority to repair, or have
repaired, the lines, and shall charge the customer all resulting costs thereof.
The City shall be entitled to place a lien against the property of such
customer or owner securing payment of such costs.
      (2)   The water meter shall, after installation, inspection and approval,
become the property of the City, and shall be maintained by the City. The
customer shall promptly notify the City if he or she believes there is any
inaccuracy in meter readings.
   (b)   Sewer service lines. Each customer shall be responsible for
maintaining the entire length of his or her sewer service line downstream from
the meter pit. Excess infiltration leaks or breaks in the sewer service lines
shall be repaired by the customer within seventy-two (72) hours from the time
of notification of such condition by the City. If satisfactory progress toward
repairing the leak has not been made by the time specified, the City shall have
the authority to repair, or have repaired, the lines, and shall charge the
customer all resulting costs thereof. The City shall be entitled to place a
lien against the property of such customer or owner securing payment of such
costs.
(Ord. 334 § 4.4, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-4-110.   Enforcement.
   (a)   The responsibility of cleaning and maintaining all grease interceptors
and sand and oil traps shall be the customer's and/or owner's. Grease
interceptors and sand and oil traps shall be inspected periodically by the
City's maintenance contractor, and, if not properly maintained, the City will
initiate procedures to obtain compliance with this Chapter.
   (b)   The charge for these inspections to the customer and/or owner shall be
a direct pass-on of the expense to the City and shall be billed directly by the
City for all costs incurred by the City in inspecting the property.
   (c)   Discharge of sewage in any manner in violation of this Chapter is
hereby declared a public nuisance and may be corrected or abated as directed by
the City.
   (d)   Whenever a discharge of sewage or the operation of a grease
interceptor or sand or oil trap is in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter or otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination,
pollution or nuisance, the City will issue a written notice to correct the
practice within seventy-two (72) hours. If the practice is not corrected within
such time, the City may notify the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment and turn off water service or effect disconnection of the sanitary
sewage service line from the City's system, until such time as the City has
received adequate assurances that any and all violations of this Chapter will
cease and will not occur in the future. In addition, all of the costs of the
aforementioned proceedings shall be charged against the property and, until
paid, shall constitute a perpetual lien against the property.
   (e)   When a discharge of waste causes an obstruction, damage or any other
impairment to the City facilities, the City may assess a charge against the
customer and/or owner for the work required to clean or repair the facility and
add such charge to the customer's and/or owner's sewer service charge. The City
shall have such remedies for the collection of such costs as it has for the
collection of sewer service charges, and such costs, until paid, shall
constitute a perpetual lien against the property.
   (f)   Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provisions of
this Chapter or conditions set forth in permits duly issued shall be liable
civilly to the City. The City may petition the District Court to impose, assess
and recover such sums.
   (g)   In order to effect its powers, the City may enter upon private
property for the purpose of inspection and maintenance of sanitary and waste
disposal facilities and may terminate service to property in which a violation
of any of this Chapter is found to exist. Prior to termination of service, the
City shall notify, in writing, the owner and tenant, if any, of such property
that service is intended to be so terminated. Such notice shall be mailed to
the customer at the address of record, and a copy shall be delivered to the
owner and tenant or posted conspicuously on the property. The notice shall
state the date of proposed termination of service and the reasons therefor. In
the event of an emergency, the City may terminate service without prior notice;
provided, however, that subsequent notice of the termination shall be delivered
as set forth herein.
   (h)   The prohibitions against unauthorized discharge of wastes proscribed
in this Section include the dumping or pumping of wastes directly into the
City's manholes without the prior written consent of the City Manager.
(Ord. 334 § 4.5, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 5
Service Extension Policies
Sec. 13-5-10.   General policy.
   (a)   New service will be furnished only after the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The proposed new service area or customer is included within the
City limits, or the Board of Trustees has furnished a written specific
exemption pursuant to the terms of a written agreement.
      (2)   Regional facilities needed to serve the area or customer have been
provided by the City.
      (3)   All local facilities needed to serve the area or customer are in
place and have had design and construction approval by the City Engineer; and
all costs therefor paid by the developer (or customer).
      (4)   The applicable permits have been applied for and approved and all
required fees paid.
      (5)   The customer's service lines have been installed at the customer's
expense, in accordance with City standards and construction approved by the
City Manager.
   (b)   No privately owned wells or other water supply systems, septic tanks
or other individual sewage disposal system, or on-site drainage detention
facilities shall be planned or constructed within the boundaries of the City
without the express written consent of the City.
(Ord. 334 §5.1, 2005)
Sec. 13-5-20.   Regional facilities.
   (a)   Developers desiring service to new areas within the City shall keep
the City informed and provide adequate lead time to permit the reasonable
construction of any needed regional facilities. The City shall require
financial commitments from developers in order to incur the expense of planning
and constructing required regional facilities.
   (b)   Subject to the availability of funds, a determination of economic
feasibility by the Board of Trustees and a determination by the Board of
Trustees that the best interests of the City are thereby served, the City will
construct, on such terms and conditions it deems appropriate, the water, sewer
and drainage facilities as contemplated in the City's Master Plans.
(Ord. 334 §5.2, 2005)
Sec. 13-5-30.   Local facilities.
   (a)   Ownership.
      (1)   Unless specifically accepted by the Board of Trustees in writing,
all water, drainage and sewer pipelines located within the City shall be owned
by the City, including those to which there may be a right to refund.
      (2)   Developers or owners who have completed construction of public
roads, water, sewer or drainage lines shall deed them to the City, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances; furnish a bond in a form and amount
previously approved by the City, to cover all maintenance, corrections and
replacements required for one (1) year from the date of acceptance of the lines
by the City; and provide a summary of the actual original cost of all deeded
facilities, complete with verified invoices. At the end of the one-year
maintenance period, the City, upon application of the developer or owner, shall
conduct a final inspection of the lines. When all items are completed to the
satisfaction of the City Manager, the City shall accept the lines for
ownership, operation and maintenance responsibilities.
      (3)   In certain locations, local facilities have previously been
constructed by the City or other developers (under a rebate agreement). In such
cases, developers or owners will be required to reimburse the City for
applicable costs prior to any connection or use.
   (b)   Pipeline sizing. Water distribution pipelines, collection sewer
pipelines and storm drainage pipelines shall be sized adequately to serve the
development tract for which they are designed. All pipeline systems shall be
sized to accommodate the intent of the Master Plans, or as determined by the
City Engineer. Where the distribution or collection lines also have a
transmission function serving areas outside of the subject tract, as determined
by the City Engineer, and then the City may require that the lines be
oversized. In such case, the City will contribute to the actual cost an amount
equal to the extra cost of oversizing. In no case shall water or sewer mains of
eight-inch diameter or less, or storm sewer pipelines eighteen (18) inches or
less, be considered as having a transmission function.
   (c)   Preliminary design procedures.
      (1)   Water distribution, collection, sewer and storm drainage planning
may be accomplished by the City or by an engineer registered in Colorado, at
the developer's option. All preliminary plans and final designs must be
prepared by, or reviewed by the City Engineer and approved by the Board of
Trustees. In any case, the City Engineer or Inspector shall perform prescribed
inspection services.
      (2)   Any developer desiring to have water and/or sewer lines (local
facilities) extended shall notify the City Manager. Normally an engineering
pre-design report will be required. This report should address the benefited
property owners, the size and location of proposed pipelines, and preliminary
cost estimate. The developer's engineer or the City Engineer, at the
developer's option, can prepare this report. In either case, the developer is
responsible for the cost of preparation and review.
      (3)   If rebate provisions are contemplated, such arrangements shall be
outlined in the report. The benefited properties and proposed rebate provisions
and allocations should be included.
      (4)   After preliminary review, the developer may proceed with final
design normally; during the preliminary phase, general conformity to the Master
Plans will be reviewed and oversize requirements, if any, established. The
developer is responsible for obtaining these approvals as well as resolving any
differences in design requirements imposed by the City.
   (d)   Easements/rights-of-way.
      (1)   All water and sewer mains should be installed in trenches
containing no other conduits. The line and depth of such installations shall be
as approved by the City Engineer. The topography and alignment of such rights-
of-way shall be suitable for main installation as determined by the City
Engineer.
      (2)   Preliminary and final planning shall be such that adequate space
and easement reservations shall be made available permanently to the City
without charge, as approved by the City Engineer.
   (e)   Final design.
      (1)   The extension application and final design documents will be
furnished to the City Engineer for review and thence to the Board of Trustees
for approval.
      (2)   The submittal shall include construction drawings, specifications
and other contract documents. These documents shall be prepared by the City
Engineer or registered engineer acceptable to the City. In all cases, the
contract documents must be reviewed and approved by the City. Plan and profile
drawings shall be on a horizontal scale of 1" = 50' (larger scales may be
accepted, as determined by the City Engineer). All elevations must be USGS
datum. Where practical, elevations of existing City facilities shall be field-
verified in the final design. Designs and specifications must include the
provisions of Appendix B, Service Line Standards, a copy of which is available
at the City Manager's office, with other detailed provisions as required by
good engineering practice, all subject to the Board of Trustees' approval.
      (3)   Designs for water, sewer and drainage main extensions shall be
submitted for review at least thirty (30) days before approval is expected.
      (4)   Plans and specifications shall be submitted to the City one (1)
week (seven [7] days) prior to each reading.
      (5)   Plans, specifications and easements submitted for Board of Trustees
approval must be complete and meet with the approval of the City Engineer.
      (6)   Design approvals are valid for twelve (12) months from the date of
Board of Trustees approval unless otherwise specifically noted in the approval.
If construction is not substantially complete by that time, resubmittal of the
plans may be required and new construction may not be initiated without the
City Manager's specific approval.
   (f)   Construction phase.
      (1)   After all approvals have been granted, the developer must have the
extensions constructed in a strict accordance with the approved design and
inspected by the City Engineer or Inspector.
      (2)   The City Engineer or Inspector will inspect to assure good quality
construction, installation materials and practices in general conformity with
the approved plans and specifications. The City Engineer or Inspector will not
handle, or be responsible for, other construction phase-related services (e.g.,
staking easement and/or line locations, measuring quantities, preparing pay
estimates and administrative or management-type relations with the contractor),
unless the City Engineer is used for design or unless a specific contract for
such services is executed with the City. In no case shall the City or the City
Engineer be responsible for job safety.
      (3)   The developer shall schedule a preconstruction conference on the
job site with the City Engineer or Inspector prior to construction. The
developer shall notify the City five (5) working days prior to beginning
construction, and thereafter keep the City Engineer or Inspector informed of
the construction schedule. No work may be covered, hidden or completed without
the presence and approval of the City Engineer or Inspector. Any City Engineer
or Inspector time or expense caused by the contractor failing to work according
to the proposed schedule shall be charged to the project as part of the actual
cost.
      (4)   Construction staking shall be completed prior to the installation
of the water, sewer or drainage lines. All staking shall be maintained
throughout the installation of the water, sewer and drainage lines. Staking
shall include easement or right-of-way stakes and cut/offset stakes (fifty-foot
maximum spacing unless otherwise approved).
   (g)   As-built drawings.
      (1)   Accurate as-built drawings (sealed by the design engineer), showing
adequate ties to physical facilities, must be provided at the completion of
work by the owner's or developer's engineer. The City or its Engineer shall be
provided with a reproducible set of as-built drawings on Mylar. These may be
the original tracings or photographic reproducible. If the base drawings have
been prepared by CAD methods, then a disc containing all the as-built
information shall be furnished.
      (2)   As-built drawings shall furnish information in a manner similar to
the approved standard drawing "Typical As-Built Information" contained in
Appendix B, Service Line Standards, a copy of which is available at the City
Manager's office.
   (h)   Maintenance. The City operates and maintains all water, drainage and
sewer mains within the City which have been completed, accepted and deeded to
the City, except that the developer shall provide for a one-year warranty
period, beginning at the time of final acceptance by the City.
(Ord. 334 § 5.3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-5-40.   Permits required.
   (a)   The right to take and use water distributed and the right to discharge
sanitary sewage or storm sewage through the facilities of the City shall exist
only under permit, and no physical connection may be made or modified to any
such facilities or to any privately or publicly owned extension hereof for any
purpose unless a permit has first been obtained authorizing the use for which
such a connection is to be made.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit, the City reserves the full
power and authority to determine all matters in connection with the control and
use of water from the water system.
   (c)   Separate permits.
      (1)   No water user in or upon any premises to which water is supplied
under a permit for such premises shall supply or allow water to be supplied for
use on any other premises unless a permit for use on such other premises has
been procured. Nor shall any sewer user similarly allow discharge of wastes
generated from offsite property to a sewer connection located on his or her
property.
      (2)   A permit is required for each and every building using water and/or
discharging sewage.
      (3)   The water and sewer service lines to any structure served by the
City must be independent of the service to any other structure, except where
the structures involved comprise an undivided unit with no potential for
separate ownership. Individual water service and meters will be required for
each individual owner, unless the Board of Trustees has granted specific
exemption.
   (d)   Increased service for existing customers.
      (1)   Any water customer or owner expanding his or her buildings or
otherwise increasing water demands must apply for a modified permit, whether or
not an increase in service pipe size is determined to be required.
      (2)   Any sewer customer or owner expanding his or her building, or
otherwise increasing sewage flows so that the number of equivalent units will
be increased, must apply for a modified permit, whether or not the actual size
is increased.
      (3)   In these cases, the owner shall pay incremental system development
fees at the rate in effect at the time the modified permit is issued.
   (e)   Transfer of permits.
      (1)   Permits attach to the designated premises only. They are not
affected by changes in the ownership of the licensed premises and are usable
only in accordance with the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Neither permits nor the associated system development fees are
transferable to other properties.
(Ord. 334 §5.4, 2005)
Sec. 13-5-50.   Permit issuance.
   A permit to take and use water from the City's system and/or permit to
discharge sanitary or storm sewage to the City's systems may only be issued
under the following conditions:
   (1)   Application. The applicant or his or her agent shall submit a signed,
written application for service on a form supplied by the City and presented to
the Board of Trustees or its authorized agent and shall contain the following
information:
      a.   A description of the premises to be served under the permit by
reference to land survey, by designation of lot and block or by other legal
description adequate to define the area to be served by convenient references.
      b.   A description of the building or buildings to be constructed and
their purpose. If the buildings are to be used for commercial or industrial
purposes (any use other than residential), then the applicant shall furnish an
estimate of expected peak and average flow loads, with calculations and
information as required by the City Engineer.
      c.   An acknowledgement and agreement by the applicant that uses under
the permit must be as limited and defined by applicable law and this Code.
      d.   If a use is proposed which could result in high rate service
demands, then the City Manager may require that the applicant submit additional
information regarding demands or load rates.
      e.   A copy of the system development fees agreement applicable to the
property to be served and evidence that no uncured deficiencies are outstanding
pursuant to the terms of such system development fees agreement.
   (2)   Payment of capital fees. Prior payment of:
      a.   Water and sewer connection ("tap") fees which are administratively
set to cover the cost of service line inspection and tapping by the City, and
for any service line installation or materials furnished by the City.
      b.   Standard City water and sewer tap fees, system development fees for
the appropriate number of individual buildings or structures. Normally,
simultaneous payment for all applicable City fees, including potable water,
storm drainage and sanitary sewage, will be required.
   (3)   System development fees agreement. To assure the receipt of water tap
fees, sewer tap fees, and system development fees on a predetermined schedule
which may be necessary for the City to secure funding for the construction of
its regional facilities, the City may require that any owner and/or holder of
an interest in more than one (1) acre of real property within the City service
area enter into a system development fees purchase agreement with the City
prior to the issuance of any permits to connect to the City's facilities. As
specified in Section
13-3-20 herein, the City will not issue confirmation of a commitment to serve
property with water, irrigation water and/or sewer services unless a system
development fees purchase agreement is signed pursuant to this Section.
   (4)   Pre-purchase of system development fees. A developer or owner may pre-
purchase system development fees pursuant to an agreement with the City. The
rights derived by payment of such fees shall be as set forth in the agreement
and as stated on the certificate.
(Ord. 334 §5.5, 2005)
Sec. 13-5-60.   Fire protection service.
   (a)   A permit to take and use water from the water system for private fire
protection service is granted only upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant shall have secured a permit for water service from
the City.
      (2)   The applicant shall have specified, with particularity, the fire
protection facilities for which water service is desired.
      (3)   The applicant shall have executed an agreement adequate to control
the use of the fire protection facilities to assure that they will not be used
for any purpose other than extinguishing hostile or unfriendly fires, unless
specifically exempted by the Board of Trustees. Each direct fire protection
service line shall be equipped with an approved flow detection device. These
facilities are subject to inspection at the City's discretion. The applicant
shall have obtained all approvals, written or otherwise, as required by the
City.
      (4)   If the water is to be supplied for fire protection through the same
service line through which water is supplied for other purposes, the fire
protection facilities shall be so installed as to prevent the use of water
through such facilities for any purpose other than fighting hostile or
unfriendly fires.
      (5)   The City assumes no obligation for adequacy of private fire
protection service.
   (b)   The only use for which water may be taken from fire protection
facilities under permit is to extinguish hostile or unfriendly fires. Any other
use of water from such facilities shall be deemed as unauthorized use of water
for which a permit for fire protection service may be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 334 §5.6, 2005)
Sec. 13-5-70.   Service lines and connections.
   (a)   Cost responsibilities.
      (1)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of sewer and water service lines (i.e., customer facilities), including the
cost of any meters, shall be borne by the customer. The customer shall
indemnify the City for any loss or damage that may directly, or indirectly, be
occasioned by the installation or use of the sewer and water service line.
      (2)   Each customer shall own and be responsible for the construction,
maintenance and replacement of water and sewer service lines from the curb
valve and box to their building with the exception of the water meter.
Installation of the water meter shall be a cost of the customer; however, after
acceptance of water service line construction, ownership of the water meter, as
well as calibration and maintenance responsibilities and replacement costs
shall be assumed by the City.
      (3)   Each customer shall own and be responsible for the construction,
maintenance and replacement of sewer service lines from the City sewer main tap
to his or her building.
   (b)   Design – construction.
      (1)   All service lines shall be constructed in accordance with the
minimum standards as set forth in Appendix B, Service Line Standards, a copy of
which is available at the City Manager's office. All water services installed
hereafter shall be equipped with a customer meter.
      (2)   Service lines shall not be used until inspected and approved by the
City Manager. The cost for this inspection service is included in the tapping
connection fees as set forth in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy
of which is available at the City Manager's office.
   (c)   Pressure-regulating and relief valves.
      (1)   All water service lines shall be equipped with a line pressure-
regulating valve, except in areas specifically exempted by the City Engineer.
Pressure-regulating valves shall be upstream of all uses. Installation in the
meter pit is acceptable to the City if the pit and piping are designed to
permit convenient servicing of the meter. The pressure-regulating valve shall
be set for a downstream pressure not exceeding eighty (80) psi.
      (2)   A water pressure relief valve shall be installed on the plumbing of
every customer, normally at the hot water tank. The valve shall be provided
with a discharge line to a drain in any areas where discharge could cause
damage.
   (d)   Individual service lines.
      (1)   Each individual commercial structure hereinafter connected shall
pay for an individual water and/or sewer tap and install separate service lines
for each commercial structure.
      (2)   Each individual residential structure hereinafter connected shall
pay for an individual water and/or sewer tap and install separate service lines
for each residential structure. Any variance from this requirement must be
authorized by obtaining written approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 334 § 5.7, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 6
Rates and Charges
Sec. 13-6-10.   General.
   The Board of Trustees has established water system development fees, sewer
system development fees, storm drainage system development fees, tapping fees,
service charges and other fee schedules. The current fee rates are reflected in
Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available at the
City Manager's office. These fees may be increased or decreased by the Board of
Trustees at any time without notice.
(Ord. 334 § 6.1, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-20.   Rebate agreements.
   In circumstances where a developer is required to construct and invest in
facilities which can partially benefit future development, the City may enter
into rebate agreements, payable from fees collected from future developers or
customers, in the circumstances described below. Rebate agreement forms are
available from the City.
   (1)   Adjacent developments.
      a.   When a developer is required to install distribution/collection
mains in a street or easement bordering his or her tract – so that future
development on the other side of the street or easement can directly obtain
service through the subject lines.
      b.   The rebate amount will be assigned to the opposite side from the
developer or owner on a unit front-foot basis, as approved by the City.
Customers applying to tap the subject line shall pay the applicable rebate
costs prior to tapping.
   (2)   Connecting lines. Where a proposed development is not contiguous to
existing development, the City may require the developer to construct
intervening connecting water or sewer lines. In this case, the City will set an
amount for maximum rebate, being the approved actual cost of the connecting
line. This rebate amount will be assigned to owners of the intervening property
if, in the opinion of the City, the intervening owners can make reasonable use
of the line in the future. Future developers or customers in the intervening
area shall be required to rebate the actual cost, or a prorated portion
thereof, before connecting other mains or services to the subject line.
   (3)   Oversize. Where the City requires that a line be oversized for future
users, the City may pay for oversize directly. However, if the Board of
Trustees determines it infeasible to participate immediately in such rebate,
the cost of oversizing shall be paid from system development fee income
obtained from future customers located in an area determined by the City to
have benefited from the oversize pursuant to an oversizing agreement approved
by the Board of Trustees.
   (4)   Rebate amounts. Where the developer did not have the facilities
installed after advertised bids, the actual cost shall be as estimated by the
City Engineer and approved by the Board of Trustees. In case of disputed
eligibility of costs, the Board of Trustees' decision will be final. In case of
disputed method of rebate, a rational proposal shall be prepared by the City
Engineer and approved by the Board of Trustees; the Board of Trustees' decision
shall be final. No interest shall be allowed when determining rebate amounts.
   (5)   Rebate periods. A rebate agreement will be made for a maximum period
of ten (10) years from the date of facilities acceptance.
(Ord. 334 § 6.2, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008))
Sec. 13-6-30.   Tapping fees.
   Water and sewer tap fees are a one-time fee set to cover the actual cost of
inspection and records processing for connecting to the City's distribution
lines. Tap fees are decided by the Board of Trustees, based on actual cost
experience. If multiple inspections are required because of poor installation
or poor scheduling on the part of the contractor, the City Manager may increase
a specific tapping fee to cover the actual cost increase.
(Ord. 334 §6.3, 2005)
Sec. 13-6-40.   EQR Schedules.
   For the setting of certain fees, the City has found it convenient to
establish Equivalent Residential Unit Schedules. The base for this schedule is
an average detached single-family residence, or its equivalent. The schedules
are given in the following table.
TABLE 6.4.1
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (EQR) SCHEDULE
WATER AND SEWER UTILITIES
 CLASS OF USER EQR
      CLASS OF USER                                                            EQR
A.    RESIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATIONS
1.    Single-Family Residential Units (per each)                               1.0
      Single-family homes having not more than 3 bedrooms or baths;
     individually billed mobile homes; mobile homes on single lots; mobile
      homes established for permanent residences
     Add for each additional bedroom/bath                                     0.2
     Note: Subrental privileges of all kinds are not permitted under the
      single-family category
2.    Multi-Family Residential Units
     Apartments, condominiums, townhouses and similar facilities in the same
      complex; all units intended for long-term rental or ownership
        small sized unit. Shall not have more than 1 bedroom and 1 bathroom0.5
        medium sized unit. Shall not have more than 2 bedrooms or 2        0.75
      bathrooms.
        large sized unit. Shall not have more than 3 bedrooms and 2½      0.90
      bathrooms.
        any larger single unit.                                            1.0
3.    Transient Residential Units
     Hotels, motels, mobile home parks, dormitories and similar facilities
      Note: Includes laundry facilities in mobile homes; swimming pools and
     laundry facilities (except those in mobile homes) are additive; room
      counts shall include rooms furnished to employees; each billing unit
      shall have a minimum of 1 Manager's unit
a.    Manager's unit (per each)                                                0.80
b.    Motels, hotels and rooming houses without kitchen facilities.
        with not more than 2 bed spaces per room (per each rental room)    0.20
        with more than 2 bed spaces per room (per each room)               0.30
c.    Motels with kitchen facilities
        with not more than 2 bed spaces per unit (per each rental unit)    0.25
        with more than 2 bed spaces per unit (per each rental unit)        0.35
d.    Dormitories (per each rental bed space)                                  0.10
e.    Add for laundry facilities (or available hookup) in each building, % of  20%
      total EQR served
f.    Mobile homes in park; with laundry                                       0.70/space
B.    COMMERCIAL CLASSIFICATION
1.    Restaurants and Bars
     Restaurants, bars, lounges, banquet rooms and drive-ins
a.    Restaurants and bars (per 20 seats)                                      1.0
b.    Banquet rooms (per 20 seats)                                             0.4
c.    Drive-ins (per car stall)                                                0.2
d.    Drive through take-out service window                                    0.5
2.    Commercial Buildings
     Office buildings, retail sales buildings, multiple use buildings,
      Laundromats, service stations, shops, garages and similar facilities.
     Note: No process water will be allowed to enter the sewer
a.    Offices and office buildings (per 1,000 s.f. of gross floor area)        0.50
b.    Retail sales area (per 1,000 s.f. of gross sales and display area)       0.30
c.    Laundromats (per washing machine)                                        0.8
d.    Service stations (a set of pumps is defined as 1 fueling station
      regardless of the number of hoses)
        First set of pumps                                                 1.2
        Each additional set of pumps (per set)                             0.8
        Add for each bay/rack where cars can be washed                     1.4
e.    Nonretail work areas such as garages, machine shops (per each 10         0.7
      employees)
C.    CHURCH AND SCHOOL CLASSIFICATION
1.    Churches (per 100 seats)                                                 1.0
Note: Rectories, social areas with kitchen facilities are additive
2.    Schools
     Day care centers, public and private day schools
      Note: Includes teachers, librarians, custodians and administrative
     personnel associated with the school function; administrative centers,
      warehouses, equipment (such as buses) repair and/or storage centers,
      swimming pools and similar facilities are additive.
a.    Without gym and without cafeteria (per 50 students                       1.4
b.    Without gym and with cafeteria or with gym and without cafeteria (per 50 1.75
      students)
c.    With gym and cafeteria (per 50 students)                                 2.10
D.    MISCELLANEOUS CLASSIFICATIONS
1.    Swimming pools and wading pools
      Note: A permanent sign must be placed prominently at all pool filter
      installations stating that pools are not to be drained without
     permission from the Manager, that pool drainage rates will be subject to
      approval of the City, and that draining shall be limited to the hours
      between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. the next day.
a.    Private pools associated with single-family residential units (per       0.40
      40,000 gallons of pool volume)
b.    Pools associated with multi-family and transient residential units (per  0.80
      40,000 gallons of pool volume
c.    Commercial and public pools. Total EQR to be computed from pool volume
      and per capita capacity as follows:
        First 40,000 gallons of pool volume                                1.05
        Each additional 40,000 gallon capacity.                            0.75
                                                                               3.0
2.    Recreational Vehicle Waste Disposal Stations                             Unless
                                                                               otherwise
                                                                               determined
      The operator of the disposal facility shall provide a means acceptable
     to the City of counting the number of times the disposal facilities are
      used.
      The City shall review and approve charges made to users of dumping
     facilities by facility owners; no system development fees will be
      assessed for camper dump facilities, and the City reserves the right to
      cease service to such facilities at any time.
3.    Medical Hospital
     Note: Includes staff and administrative personnel associated with the
      hospital function.
        Per bed                                                            0.35
4.    Public Restrooms (per toilet or urinal)                                  0.15
5.    Assisted Living Facilities per Occupied Unit                             0.35
E.    OTHER CLASSIFICATIONS
      Equivalents shall be established on an individual basis for all users
      other than those identified in Classifications A, B, C, and D above.
     Industrial users will be subject to the requirements of the
      Environmental Protection Agency as those requirements pertain to
      assessment of users charges and cost recovery (refer to 40 C.F.R. § 35
      (1987)).
F.    GENERAL NOTES
1.    Each customer of the system will be charged a minimum of 1 EQR for
      purposes of establishing fixed costs.
 
 
 
TABLE 6.4.2
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL USER (EQR) SCHEDULE
DRAINAGE UTILITY
 CUSTOMER CATEGORY\ EQR VALUE
   CUSTOMER CATEGORY\                                           EQR VALUE
1. Single-Family Residential Detached, average density, 3.2 DU/ 1.0 EQR/Unit
   gross acre. Actual Density 1.0 to 6 DU/acre
2. Multi-Family Residential (townhomes, Single-Family Attached,
   Apartment, Condominiums)
  Gross density – dwelling units/acre*
  Less than 4.0 DU/Acre                                        1.0 EQR/Unit
  4.0 to 6.99 DU/Acre                                          0.8 EQR/Unit
  7.0 to 9.99 DU/Acre                                          0.7 EQR/Unit
  10.0 to 12.99 DU/Acre                                        0.6 EQR/Unit
  13.0 or more DU/Acre                                         0.5 EQR/Unit
3. Commercial Area                                              5.25 EQR/Acre
4. Schools, Government-Type Buildings                           3.5 EQR/Acre
5. Open Space                                                   0.0 EQR/Acre
*   includes platted area with all streets, but does not include dedicated
open space.
 
 
(Ord. 334 §6.4, 2005)
Sec. 13-6-50.   System development fees.
   (a)   These are one-time fees designed to provide a recovery of capital
investment attributable to regional facilities of the City's water systems.
   (b)   Water system development fees shall be assessed based on the
applicable EQR value of the customer (Table 6.4.1). This process will be phased
in with the 'flat rate' system over the next year. The current fee schedule is
included in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is
available at the City Manager's office. Water system development fees are not
applicable to fire protection service lines for water customers.
(Ord. 334 § 6.5, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-60.   Water resource fee.
   (a)   This is a one-time fee charged to development annexing to the City
after January 1, 2005, or for water supplied outside the City limits pursuant
to an agreement. This fee is to cover the cost of water rights needed to supply
the subject development. At the City's discretion, the proposed development may
be required to furnish adequate water rights to the City; in which case, the
water resource fee will be waived.
   (b)   Water resource fees will be assessed to the developer as a condition
of annexation or commitment to serve unless otherwise approved by the Board of
Trustees in writing. The water resource fee will be based on the EQR schedule
given in Table 6.4.1 at the rate given in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and
Fees, a copy of which is available at the City Manager's office.
(Ord. 334 § 6.6, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-70.   Sewer system development fee.
   (a)   These are fees designed to provide recovery of capital investment
attributable to regional facilities of the City's sewer system.
   (b)   Sewer system development fees shall be assessed based on EQR value of
the proposed customer, using the equivalent unit schedule contained herein
(Table 6.4.1) and the unit rate as provided in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates
and Fees, a copy of which is available at the City Manager's office.
(Ord. 334 § 6.7, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-80.   Storm drainage system development fee.
   (a)   This is a fee designed to provide recovery of capital investment
attributable to the development of the City's regional drainage facilities.
   (b)   Storm drainage system development fees shall be assessed based on the
drainage EQR value of the proposed customer (Table 6.4.2), using the unit fee
given in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available
at the City Manager's office.
(Ord. 334 § 6.8, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-90.   Water service charges.
   City water system operating revenues are primarily derived from water
service charges. Water delivered by the City shall be sold on a metered basis,
except where meters have not yet been installed. A base fee is set to cover
billing and a portion of fixed overhead costs. Where no meter exists, billing
shall be based on the customer's EQR value. Service charges shall be billed as
shown in Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available
at the City Manager's office.
(Ord. 334 § 6.9, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-100.   Sewer service charges.
   (a)   Rate. City sewer system operating revenues are primarily derived from
sewer service charges. Service charges shall be based on a flat rate schedule,
using the appropriate EQR value, and the unit rate given in Appendix A,
Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available at the City Manager's
office.
   (b)   High strength sewage. The service charge rates given in Appendix A,
Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available at the City Manager's
office, are based on sewage strength similar to normal domestic wastes. For any
commercial or process water use where high strength wastes may be expected
(above 230 mg/1 BOD-5 and 250 mg/1 SS), the City reserves the right to require
installation of a sampling point, as approved by the City Engineer, and to
charge a premium fee. Such premium shall be determined by the City Manager
based on current treatment costs plus the administrative costs of sampling,
testing and billing.
(Ord. 334 § 6.10, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-110.   Drainage service charges.
   City drainage system operating revenues are primarily derived from drainage
service charges. The appropriate drainage service charge will be determined
from the Drainage EQR Schedule (Table 6.4.2) and the unit rate given in
Appendix A, Schedule of Rates and Fees, a copy of which is available at the
City Manager's office.
(Ord. 334 § 6.11, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-6-120.   Construction water charge.
   A nonrefundable construction water charge shall be paid when the applicant
for a new water service desires to have water service available at the premises
for construction use prior to the time a meter may be properly set and
protected from damage. Payment of the construction water charge will enable the
premises to receive unmetered water service for construction use until the
service is activated. Occupancy of the premises shall not occur until a meter
has been installed. The City Manager shall establish the nonrefundable
construction water charge from time to time. The construction water charge
shall be sufficient to generate the revenues estimated to have been collected
if a meter had been installed.
(Ord. 334 §6.12, 2005)
Sec. 13-6-130.   Transfer of fees.
   No system development fees paid on behalf of one (1) property, or any
portion thereof, may be transferred to any other property without the written
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 334 §6.13, 2005)
Sec. 13-6-140.   Penalty for late payment.
   (a)   Owner responsible for payments. Water service may be requested by the
record owner of the property to be served. As a condition of service, the City
may require evidence of the record owner's title to the property. The owner or
owners of any building or premises connected with the City water or wastewater
facilities shall be held and deemed liable for the payment of all utility user
charges levied against such building or premises. The record owner of the
property, as landlord, may request that a tenant in the possession of the
premises be the named the user to be charged. Such request must be in writing
on a form to be provided by the City. Such form shall include a signed
statement that the record owner understands that payment of utility charges by
a tenant or other party does not relieve the owner of his or her liability for
water, sewer and storm drainage user charges and that unpaid utility user
charges may be levied against the property. Upon receipt of a landlord request
for tenant service, the City will confirm with the named tenant that the tenant
agrees to pay any and user charges. Only properties with an individual water
connection will be considered for this privilege.
   (b)   Utility bills fifteen (15) days past due will be assessed a ten
percent (10%) late fee on any accrued outstanding balance.
   (c)   Bank charged fees, including charge back for returned deposited items
for overdraft(s) and/or closed account check(s), shall be passed through to the
owner of the utility account by the City. Failure to pay the fees charged for
the overdraft(s) and/or closed account check(s) will be collected pursuant to
Subsection (d) below.
   (d)   Failure to pay for water and sewer services supplied by the City by
November 1, will receive a notice of delinquency and if the utility bill is not
paid in full, or arrangements have not been made to pay the utility bill, the
utility bill, including all penalties and processing fees, will be certified to
the County Treasurer as a lien on December 1. Such certified charges are to be
collected and paid over by the County Treasurer, in the same manner as taxes
are authorized pursuant to state law (Ord. 334 §6.14, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008;
Ord. 448 §1, 2023; Ord. 452 §1, 2024; Ord. 457 §1, 2025)
Sec. 13-6-150.   Penalties for liens and foreclosure proceedings.
   (a)   By authority of 31-20-105, C.R.S., any municipality may cause any or
all delinquent charges levied to be certified to the County Treasurer and be
collected and paid by the County Treasurer in the same manner as taxes are
authorized by this Chapter.
   (b)   Each water charge levied shall be a lien therewith, and if the same is
not paid within ninety (90) days after it becomes due and payable, the City
Manager shall certify such unpaid rates or charges to the County Treasurer, to
be placed upon the tax list for the current year, to be collected in the same
manner as other taxes are collected, with ten-percent penalty thereon to defray
the cost of collection. The same shall be collected and paid over by the County
Treasurer to the City in the same manner as taxes are authorized to be paid by
all laws in the State. Such delinquent water charges may also be certified to
the Board of Trustees or County Commissioners and shall become a lien upon the
real property served by such water connection and collected in the same manner
as though they were part of the taxes.
   (c)   Except as specifically amended herein or in conflict with any
provisions hereof, all of the provisions of Ordinance No. 183 and Ordinance No.
184, as amended, and any subsequent ordinances or resolutions amending such
ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 334 § 6.16, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 7
Appeal Procedures
Sec. 13-7-10.   Application.
   The appeal procedures established by this Article shall apply to all
complaints concerning the interpretation, application or enforcement of this
Chapter, as they now exist or may hereafter be amended. The appeal procedures
established by this Article shall not apply to the following complaints:
   (1)   Complaints arising out of the interpretation of the terms of City
contracts.
   (2)   Complaints, which arise with regard to personnel matters, which
complaints shall be governed exclusively by the City's personnel rules as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 334 §7.1, 2005; Reso. 07-12, 2007)
Sec. 13-7-20.   Initial complaint; resolution.
   Complaints concerning the interpretation, application or enforcement of this
Chapter must be presented in writing to the City Manager. Upon receipt of a
complaint, the City Manager, after a full and complete review of the allegation
contained in the complaint, shall arrange to have the appeal considered by the
Board of Trustees. The appeal will be heard within fifteen (15) days, but not
earlier than ten (10) days, at the Board of Trustees' next regularly scheduled
meeting or a special meeting.
(Ord. 334 § 7.2, 2005; Reso. 07-12, 2007; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 13-7-30.   Appeal to Board of Trustees.
   The request for an appeal shall set forth with specificity the facts or
exhibits presented which the complainant relies and shall contain a brief
statement of the complainant's reasons for the appeal. The City Manager will
compile a written record of the appeal consisting of all exhibits or other
physical evidence offered. Such consideration shall be limited exclusively to a
review of the record on appeal and the complainant's written request for
appeal. No further evidence shall be presented by any party to the appeal, and
there shall be no right to a hearing de novo before the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 334 §7.6, 2005; Reso. 07-12, 2007)
Sec. 13-7-40.   Board of Trustees' findings.
   The Board of Trustees shall make written findings and an order concerning
the disposition of the appeal presented to it and shall cause notice of the
decision to be sent by certified mail to the complainant within thirty (30)
days after the hearing. The Board of Trustees will not reverse the decision of
the City Manager or his or her hearing officer, unless it appears that such
decision was contrary to the manifest weight of the evidence made available at
the formal hearing.
(Ord. 334 §7.7, 2005; Reso. 07-12, 2007)
Sec. 13-7-50.   Notice.
   The complainant shall be given notice of the appeal before the Board of
Trustees by certified mail at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the date
of the hearing. When a complainant is represented by an attorney, notice of any
action, finding, determination, decision or order affecting the complainant
shall also be served upon the City Attorney.
(Ord. 334 § 7.8, 2005; Reso. 07-12, 2007; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 8
Water and Sewer Activity Enterprise
Sec. 13-8-10.   Establishment of Enterprise.
   There is hereby reaffirmed, pursuant to the terms and provisions of the
Water Activity Law (Title 37, Article 45.1, C.R.S.), the "City of Creede Water
and Sewer Activity Enterprise" (the "Enterprise"). The Enterprise shall be
wholly owned by the City and shall consist of the business represented by all
of the City's water and sewer facilities and properties now owned or hereafter
acquired, whether situated within or without the City boundaries, including all
present or future improvements, extensions, enlargements, betterments,
replacements or additions thereof or thereto (the "System"). The Enterprise
shall have all of the authority, powers, rights, obligations and duties as may
be provided or permitted by the Water Activity Law and the Colorado
Constitution and as may be further prescribed by resolution of the City.
(Ord. 348 §1, 2009)
Sec. 13-8-20.   Governing body.
   The governing body of the Enterprise shall be the Board of Trustees of the
City and shall be subject to all of the applicable laws, rules and regulations
pertaining to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 348 §2, 2009)
Sec. 13-8-30.   Maintenance of Enterprise status.
   The Enterprise shall at all times and in all ways conduct its affairs so as
to continue to qualify as a "water activity enterprise" within the meaning of
Section 37-45.1-102, C.R.S., and as an "enterprise" within the meaning of
Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution. Specifically, but not by
way of limitation, for calendar year 2009 and for such calendar years
thereafter as shall be determined in the discretion of the Board of Trustees,
the Enterprise is not authorized and shall not receive ten percent (10%) or
more of its annual revenue in grants from all Colorado state and local
governments combined.
(Ord. 348 §3, 2009)
Sec. 13-8-40.   Issuance of bonds.
   The Enterprise is authorized to issue bonds, notes or other obligations
payable from the revenues derived or to be derived from the System, in
accordance with the Water Activity Law.
(Ord. 348 §4, 2009)
CHAPTER 14
Reserved
CHAPTER 15
Annexation
Article 1   Annexation Procedures
   Sec. 15-1-10   Purpose
   Sec. 15-1-20   Responsibilities of applicant
   Sec. 15-1-30   Preliminary steps
   Sec. 15-1-40   Annexation impact report
   Sec. 15-1-50   Consideration of annexation ordinance
   Sec. 15-1-60   Final submission
ARTICLE 1
Annexation Procedures
Sec. 15-1-10.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a procedure to bring land under
the jurisdiction of the City in compliance with the Colorado Municipal
Annexation Act of 1965, as amended. (Resolution 05-04; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 15-1-20.   Responsibilities of applicant.
   In addition to other duties imposed upon all applicants by this Code and the
Colorado Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, as amended, all applicants shall
have the following responsibilities:
   (1)   The applicant is responsible for having a representative at all
meetings where the request is reviewed. Failure to have a representative
present will be cause to have the item withdrawn from the agenda of that
meeting.
   (2)   The applicant shall consult with the Planning Department to discuss
any special conditions pertaining to the annexation and to obtain an annexation
petition.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 15-1-30.   Preliminary steps.
   (a)   Procedure. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the presentation of any
annexation petition to the Board of Trustees, the applicant shall submit to the
City the annexation petition, the annexation fee of three hundred dollars
($300.00), a minimum of fifteen (15) copies of the master plan and annexation
map, and a minimum of five (5) copies of all required supportive information.
      (1)   The Planning Department shall review all documents submitted for
completeness and accuracy. If all documents are complete and accurate, the
Planning Department shall submit the annexation petition to the City Clerk.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall present the annexation petition and a
resolution initiating annexation proceedings to the Board of Trustees, which
shall thereafter establish a date for a public hearing. Upon the establishment
of a public hearing date, the City Clerk shall give appropriate notice in
accordance with the Colorado Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, as amended, and
shall specifically direct copies of the annexation petition and the resolution
initiating the annexation procedure by certified mail to the Clerk of the Board
of County Commissioners and to the County Attorney of the county wherein the
territory is located. Copies of the annexation petition and the resolution
initiating the annexation procedure shall also be sent by certified mail to any
school district or special district having territory within the annexed area.
These copies shall be sent at least twenty-five (25) days prior to the public
hearing.
      (3)   Upon acceptance of the annexation petition by the Board of
Trustees, the Planning Department shall furnish to the following entities
copies of the annexation map and the master plan. The Planning Department may
submit copies of the annexation map and the master plan to additional
interested entities as determined by the Planning Department in its sole
discretion. Such entities shall be advised by the Planning Department of the
scheduled hearing date and shall further be notified that any objections to the
annexation and master plan must be submitted to the City in writing no later
than seven (7) days after receipt of the annexation map and master plan:
         a.   Telephone companies.
         b.   Franchise utility companies.
         c.   City Engineer.
         d.   Fire Department.
         e.   City Public Works Department.
         f.   Colorado Department of Transportation.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the annexation map,
master plan and zoning request at a public hearing and shall submit a written
recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Annexation map. All annexation maps shall be made with an engineer's
scale, minimum scale to be one (1) inch represents one hundred (100) feet, and
shall be on a reproducible medium with outer dimensions of twenty-four (24) by
thirty-six (36) inches. The annexation map shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The date of preparation, the scale and a symbol designating true
north.
      (2)   The name of the annexation.
      (3)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the applicant and the
firm or person responsible for preparing the annexation map.
      (4)   The legal description.
      (5)   Distinction of the boundary that is contiguous to the City and the
length of same.
      (6)   Lot and block numbers if the area is already platted.
      (7)   Existing and proposed easements and rights-of-way.
      (8)   Existing and requested zoning and acreage of each requested zone.
      (9)   Ownership of all parcels within and adjacent to the annexation.
      (10)   Appropriate certification blocks as directed by the Planning
Department.
   (c)   Master plan. All master plans shall be made with an engineer's scale,
minimum scale to be one (1) inch represents one hundred (100) feet, and shall
be on a reproducible medium with outer dimensions of twenty-four (24) by
thirty-six (36) inches. The master plan shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The date of preparation, the scale and a symbol designating true
north.
      (2)   The name of the annexation.
      (3)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the applicant and the
firm or person responsible for preparing the master plan.
      (4)   Existing and proposed easements and rights-of-way.
      (5)   Block numbers and lot numbers with approximate dimensions.
      (6)   Proposed gross and net residential density.
      (7)   Existing watercourses with adequate easements for flood control.
      (8)   Designation of all public sites to be reserved and dedicated.
      (9)   Existing two-foot contours.
      (10)   Appropriate certification blocks as directed by the Planning
Department.
   (d)   Supportive information. The following supportive information shall be
submitted with the annexation map and master plan:
      (1)   Soils description and limitation.
      (2)   Preliminary utility plan.
      (3)   Mailing addresses of all property owners within three hundred (300)
feet of the annexation.
      (4)   Affidavit concerning the amount and historical use of all water
rights owned.
      (5)   Vicinity map with a radius of one and one-half (1½) miles, at a
minimum scale of one (1) inch represents two thousand (2,000) feet.
      (6)   Statement on community need for proposed annexation and zoning.
      (7)   For all annexations in excess of ten (10) acres, the applicant
shall obtain from the school district governing the area to be annexed a
statement of the effect of the annexation upon the school district, including
an estimate of the number of students generated by the proposed annexation and
the capital construction required to educate such students.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 15-1-40.   Annexation impact report.
   (a)   For all annexations in excess of ten (10) acres, the City shall
prepare an impact report regarding the proposed annexation not less than
twenty-five (25) days before the date of the annexation hearing. One (1) copy
of the impact report shall be filed with the Board of County Commissioners
governing the area proposed to be annexed within five (5) days thereafter. The
preparation and filing of the annexation impact report may be waived upon
approval of the Board of County Commissioners governing the area proposed to be
annexed.
   (b)   The annexation impact report shall include the following:
      (1)   A map or maps of the City and adjacent territory showing the
following information:
         a.   The present and proposed boundaries of the City in the vicinity
of the proposed annexation.
         b.   The present streets, major trunk water lines, sewer interceptors
and outfalls, other utility lines and ditches and the proposed extension of
such streets and utility lines in the vicinity of the proposed annexation.
         c.   The existing and proposed land use pattern in the areas to be
annexed.
      (2)   A copy of any draft or final preannexation agreement, if available.
      (3)   A statement of the City's plans for extending or providing for
municipal services within the area to be annexed.
      (4)   A statement of the City's plans for the financing of municipal
services to be extended into the area to be annexed.
      (5)   A statement identifying all existing districts within the area to
be annexed.
      (6)   A statement of the effect of the annexation upon the school
district governing the area to be annexed, as is more fully set forth in
Section
15-1-30(d)(7) of this Chapter.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 15-1-50.   Consideration of annexation ordinance.
   Upon the submission of documentation in accordance with this Chapter and
upon compliance with the notice and hearing requirements as set forth in the
Colorado Municipal Annexation Act of 1965, as amended, the Board of Trustees
may consider the approval of an ordinance annexing the subject property to the
City. In the event the Board of Trustees considers and disapproves such
ordinance, no similar request may be heard for a period of one (1) year from
the date of denial.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 15-1-60.   Final submission.
   In the event the Board of Trustees approves an annexation ordinance, the
applicant shall submit to the Planning Department two (2) Mylars of the final
annexation map and two (2) Mylars of the master plan within ten (10) days of
the effective date of the annexation ordinance.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
CHAPTER 17
Reserved
CHAPTER 18
Building Regulations
Article 1   Building Permits
   Division 1   General Provisions
   Sec.
18-1-10   Establishment of building permit
   Sec.
18-1-20   Establishment of development permit
   Sec.
18-1-30   Designation of City Manager
   Sec.
18-1-40   Duties and responsibilities of City Manager
   Division 2   Balcony Permits
   Sec.
18-1-110   Revocable permit required
   Sec.
18-1-120   Application process
   Sec.
18-1-130   Issuance of permit
   Sec.
18-1-140   Revocation of permit
   Sec.
18-1-150   Notice of revocation
   Sec.
18-1-160   Removal by City
   Sec.
18-1-170   Nuisance declared
Article 2   Building and Residential Codes
   Sec.
18-2-10   Adoption
   Sec.
18-2-15   Adoption
   Sec.
18-2-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
18-2-30   Amendments
   Sec.
18-2-40   Violations
   Sec.
18-2-50   Penalties and fees
Article 3   Electrical Code
   Sec.
18-3-10   Adoption
   Sec.
18-3-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
18-3-30   Amendments
Article 4   Mechanical Code
   Sec.
18-4-10   Adoption
   Sec.
18-4-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
18-4-30   Amendments
Article 5   Plumbing Code
   Sec.
18-5-10   Adoption
   Sec.
18-5-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
18-5-30   Amendments
Article 6   Fire Code
   Sec.
18-6-10   Adoption
   Sec.
18-6-20   Copy on file
   Sec.
18-6-30   Amendments
Article 7   Exterior Lighting Requirements
   Sec.
18-7-10   Purpose
   Sec.
18-7-20   Applicability
   Sec.
18-7-30   Definitions
   Sec.
18-7-40   Outdoor lighting standards
   Sec.
18-7-50   Exemptions
ARTICLE 1
Building Permits
Division 1   General Provisions
Sec. 18-1-10.   Establishment of building permit.
   A building permit shall be obtained for the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition or
occupancy of any building or structure in the City.
(Ord. 270 §4.1, 1989)
Sec. 18-1-20.   Establishment of development permit.
   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard. Application for a development
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the City Manager, and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures;
   (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
   (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria established by the City; and
   (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of the proposed development.
(Ord. 270 §4.2, 1989)
Sec. 18-1-30.   Designation of City Manager.
   The City Manager is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
Article by arranging for all building and development permit applications to be
reviewed as needed in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 270 §4.3, 1989)
Sec. 18-1-40.   Duties and responsibilities of City Manager.
   Duties of the City Manager shall include, but not be limited to:
   (1)   Building and development application review.
      a.   Review and/or arrange for all building and development permit
applications to be reviewed as necessary to determine that the permit
requirements of this Article have been satisfied.
      b.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      c.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood-carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this Article, adversely affects means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent over bank areas.
         1.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the development permit shall be granted
without further consideration.
         2.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer's
certification) for the proposed development shall be required for the issuance
of a development permit.
         3.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this Article shall apply for a development permit.
   (2)   Use of other base flood data.
      a.   When base flood elevations data has not been provided in accordance
with standards of the City, the City Manager shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements or other development in Zone A are administered in
accordance with said standards.
      b.   Since no base flood data is provided in accordance with said
standards, the City Manager will utilize the Flood Hazard Identification
Report, Willow Creek, Creede, Colorado, as written by the Colorado Department
of Natural Resources, Colorado Water Conservation Board, dated December, 1986,
and the resolution adopted by the same agency designating the floodplain areas
in the City, as described in the Flood Hazard Identification Report, Willow
Creek, Creede, Colorado. Such resolution is dated January 23, 1987.
   (3)   Information to be obtained and maintained for development permits.
      a.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      b.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in Section
18-1-20(3) above.
      c.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this Article.
   (4)   Alteration of watercourses.
      a.   Notify adjacent communities and the Colorado Water Conservation
Board prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      b.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (5)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions).
(Ord. 270 § 4.4, 1989; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Division 2   Balcony Permits
Sec. 18-1-110.   Revocable permit required.
   No person shall erect or maintain any balcony or similar encroachment from
that person's adjacent property, upon or over any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public property without first obtaining a permit from the Board of
Trustees under this Division.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-120.   Application process.
   An applicant for a balcony permit shall:
   (1)   File a written application therefor on forms furnished by the City
that include the following: the date, the name of the applicant, the location
of the proposed balcony, including the legal description of the applicant's and
record owner's adjacent property, and such other information as the Board of
Trustees may deem necessary;
   (2)   Pay a one-time application fee as set by the Board of Trustees.
   (3)   Provide a copy of the recorded deed whereby the applicant establishes
that he or she is the record owner of the adjacent property. All record owners
of the property shall sign the application as well as the indemnification
agreement described herein.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-130.   Issuance of permit.
   The Board of Trustees shall inspect or cause to be inspected the balcony
described in the application. If, in the sole judgment of the Board of
Trustees, the issuance of a permit for the balcony is in the best interest of
the City, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the City Manager to issue the
permit upon compliance with all other provisions hereof. No such permit shall
be issued until approval by the Board of Trustees, verification of ownership,
delivery of certificate of insurance, execution and recording of the
indemnification agreement, and payment of the application fee. The decision of
the Board of Trustees shall be final and shall be based upon all circumstances
surrounding the proposed balcony. Circumstances to be considered by the Board
of Trustees and the weight to be given to each shall be at the sole discretion
of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-140.   Revocation of permit.
   The Board of Trustees may revoke a permit issued under this Division
whenever the Board of Trustees, in its sole judgment, determines that such
permit should be revoked. Such revocation may be on the grounds of public
safety, public necessity, public good or any other cause which the Board of
Trustees, in its sole judgment, determines to be applicable. The grounds for
revocation of a permit under this Division shall not be limited to the grounds
set forth in this Section.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-150.   Notice of revocation.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees revokes a permit under this Division, and
whenever a balcony is constructed or maintained on or over any public property
without obtaining a permit, the City Manager shall notify the record owner of
the adjacent premises to remove such balcony within such time as the Board of
Trustees determines is reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-160.   Removal by City.
   If the record owner fails to comply with the order to remove the balcony,
the Board of Trustees may cause the balcony to be removed and charge the costs
thereof, plus up to fifteen percent (15%) of such costs for administration, to
the record owners of the adjacent property. If any record owner fails or
refuses to pay, when due, any charges imposed under this Section, the Board of
Trustees may, in addition to taking other collection remedies, certify any
unpaid charges, including interest, to the County Treasurer, to be levied
against the adjacent property for collection by the County in the same manner
as delinquent general taxes upon such adjacent property are collected.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-1-170.   Nuisance declared.
   The Board of Trustees hereby declares that the construction or maintenance
of a balcony upon or over any public property within the City, without
obtaining a permit as required under this Division, constitutes a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 2
Building and Residential Codes
Sec. 18-2-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to Parts 1 and 2 or Article 16 of Title 31, C.R.S., there is hereby
adopted by reference the 2003 editions of the International Building Code and
International Residential Code published by the International Code Council,
5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 600, Falls Church, Virginia, 22041, to have the same
force and effect as if set forth herein in every particular. The subject matter
of the adopted code includes comprehensive provisions and standards regulating
to the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, conversion,
demolition, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and maintenance of
buildings and structures for the purpose of protecting the public health,
safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 335 §1, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-2-15.   Adoption.
   There is hereby adopted the 2015 International Building Code published by
the International Code Council, Inc., 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club
Hills, 60478-5795, to have the same force and effect as if set forth herein in
full except as amended herein; provided that the 2015 International Building
Code shall only apply if the property owner voluntary requests and agrees to
the application of the 2015 International Building Code and shall then apply in
lieu of the 2003 International Building Code.
(Ord. 400 § 2, 2017)
Sec. 18-2-20.   Copy on file.
   At least one (1) copy of the Codes adopted herein, certified to be true
copies, has been and is now on file in the office of the City Manager and may
be inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The code as finally adopted
shall be available for sale to the public through the office of the City
Manager at a moderate price.
(Ord. 335 §1, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-2-30.   Amendments.
   The code adopted herein is subject to the following modifications:
   (1)   All roof structures within the City limits and otherwise subject to
the Codes shall be designed and built to withstand a minimum snow load of
eighty (80) pounds per square foot. This modification shall be incorporated
into other areas of the Codes as appropriate.
   (2)   All footers used to support structures in the City that are otherwise
subject to the provision of the Codes shall be placed a minimum depth of
twenty-four (24) inches below ground surface or to such modified or additional
depth as recommended and certified by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 335 §3, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-2-40.   Violations.
   (a)   It is unlawful and constitutes a violation for any person to begin
construction without first obtaining a building permit from the City Manager or
Building Official.
   (b)   It is unlawful and constitutes a public nuisance for any person to
maintain any property, building or any other structure in the City in a
condition, which is in violation of the International Building Code, the
International Residential Code or zoning regulations of the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-2-50.   Penalties and fees.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of the
codes adopted herein.
   (b)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted herein
shall be allowed five (5) business days to rectify the violation. If the
violation is not rectified in five (5) days, a cease and desist order will be
issued, and a fine not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each day of
violation from that date shall be imposed.
   (c)   The fees applicable to codes shall be amended by resolution of the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 335 §4, 2005; Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 3
Electrical Code
Sec. 18-3-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to the power and authority conferred by Section 31-16-201, et seq.,
C.R.S., there is adopted as the electrical code of the City, by reference
thereto, the National Electrical Code, 2002 edition, and all appendices, tables
and examples thereto, published by the National Fire Protection Association,
Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269. The purpose of the adopted code is to
protect the health, safety and lives of the residents of the City. The subject
matter of the adopted code includes comprehensive rules and regulations
governing materials, methods of installation, inspection and other matters
pertaining to the practical safeguarding of persons and property from hazards
arising from the use of electricity.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-3-20.   Copy on file.
   At least one (1) copy of the National Electrical Code, certified to be a
true copy, has been and is now on file in the office of the City Manager and
may be inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The code as finally adopted
shall be available for sale to the public through the office of the City
Manager at a moderate price.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-3-30.   Amendments.
   The code adopted herein is hereby modified by the following amendments:
none.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 4
Mechanical Code
Sec. 18-4-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to the power and authority conferred by Section 31-16-201, et seq.,
C.R.S., there is adopted by reference thereto the International Mechanical
Code, 2003 edition, and the appendices thereto, promulgated by the
International Code Council Inc., 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills,
Illinois, 60478-5795. The purpose of this code is to regulate and control the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems in the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-4-20.   Copy on file.
   At least one (1) copy of the International Mechanical Code, certified to be
a true copy, has been and is now on file in the office of the City Manager and
may be inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The code as finally adopted
shall be available for sale to the public through the office of the City
Manager at a moderate price.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-4-30.   Amendments.
   The code adopted herein is hereby modified by the following amendments:
none.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 5
Plumbing Code
Sec. 18-5-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to the power and authority conferred by Section 31-16-201, et seq.,
C.R.S., there is adopted by reference thereto the International Plumbing Code,
2003 edition, and all appendices thereto, promulgated by the International Code
Council Inc., 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, Illinois, 60478-
5795. The purpose and subject matter of this code is to regulate and control
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of plumbing systems in the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-5-20.   Copy on file.
   At least one (1) copy of the International Plumbing Code, certified to be a
true copy, has been and is now on file in the office of the City Manager and
may be inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The code as finally adopted
shall be available for sale to the public through the office of the City
Manager at a moderate price.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-5-30.   Amendments.
   The code adopted herein is hereby modified by the following amendments:
none.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 6
Fire Code
Sec. 18-6-10.   Adoption.
   Pursuant to the power and authority conferred by Section 31-16-201, et seq.,
C.R.S., there is adopted as the fire code for the City, by reference thereto,
the International Fire Code, 2003 edition, and all appendices and tables
thereto, published by the International Code Council Inc., 4051 West Flossmoor
Road, Country Club Hills, Illinois, 60478-5795. The purpose of the adopted code
is to regulate and govern the safeguarding of life and property from fire and
explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; to
provide for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-6-20.   Copy on file.
   At least one (1) copy of the International Fire Code, certified to be a true
copy, has been and is now on file in the office of the City Manager and may be
inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The code as finally adopted
shall be available for sale to the public through the office of the City
Manager at a moderate price.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
Sec. 18-6-30.   Amendments.
   The code adopted herein is hereby modified by the following amendments:
none.
(Ord. 347 §1, 2008)
ARTICLE 7
Exterior Lighting Requirements
Sec. 18-7-10.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Article is to protect and promote the safety, health and
wellbeing, quality of life of Creede residents and visitors and to protect the
natural environment, and community resources by establishing the following
outdoor lighting standards:
   (a)   Protect against light pollution;
   (b)   Promote awareness of the night sky;
   (c)   Ensure safety for motorists, pedestrians, and cyclists;
   (d)   Provide assistance for residents changing their lighting fixtures; and
   (e)   Promote energy efficiency. (Ord. 433 § 1, 2021)
Sec. 18-7-20.   Applicability.
   The provisions of this Article shall apply to all exterior lighting within
the City of Creede that has not been installed prior to the adoption of this
Article. Outdoor lighting that has been installed prior to the adoption of this
Article that is not compliant with the provisions of this Article will be
considered legally non-conforming. However, property owners with legally
nonconforming exterior lighting configurations are encouraged to conform to the
outdoor lighting standards within this Article as time, budget, and maintenance
allows. (Ord. 433 § 1, 2021)
Sec. 18-7-30.   Definitions.
   Correlated color temperature means the associated color depending on the
amount of Kelvins (see Kelvin).
   Fixture means a complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps
together with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and
protect the lamps and to connect the lamps to the power. When used, it includes
ballasts and photocells.
   Full cutoff fixture means a luminaire designed and installed where no light
is emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on
the fixture.
   Fully shielded means a lighting fixture constructed in such a manner that
all light emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or a diffusing
element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part of the
luminaire, is projected below the horizon.
   Kelvin means a unit used to determine color temperature, which is the
intensity of a light's output and its appearance. The scale for Kelvins is
1,000K - 10,000K.
   Lamp means the generic term for an artificial light source, to be
distinguished from the whole assembly (see definition of fixture). Commonly
referred to as bulb.
   Light pollution means any adverse effect of human made light including, but
not limited to, light trespass, up lighting, overly bright lighting, the
uncomfortable distraction to the eye, or any human made light that diminishes
the ability to view the night sky.
   Light trespass means light projected across property lines or into the
public right-of-way when it is not required or permitted to do so.
   Lumen means a unit used to measure the amount of light that is produced by a
light source. The lumen qualifies the amount of light energy produced by a lamp
at the lamp, not by the energy input, which is indicated by the wattage. One
foot-candle means one (1) lumen per square foot of area illuminated.
   Luminaire means a light fixture or electrical lighting unit that houses a
bulb.
   Outdoor lighting means temporary or permanent lighting that is installed,
located or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors.
Fixtures that are indoors that are intended to light something outside are
considered outdoor lighting for the purpose of this Article.
   Temporary lighting means lighting that is associated with a special event or
holiday.
   Uplighting means fully shielded lighting that is directed in such a manner
as to shine light rays above the horizontal plane. (Ord. 433 § 1, 2021)
Sec. 18-7-40.   Outdoor lighting standards.
   (a)   General standards.
      (1)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting shall be designed,
located, and lamped in accordance with the provisions of this Section in order
to prevent or minimize:
         a.   Energy waste;
         b.   Glare;
         c.   Light trespass;
         d.   Over lighting;
         e.   Skyglow.
      (2)   Nonessential lighting. All nonessential exterior commercial,
recreational, and residential lighting shall be turned off after business hours
and/or when not in use. Lights on a timer are encouraged. Sensor activated
lights are encouraged to replace existing lighting that is desired for security
purposes.
      (3)   Canopy lights. Canopy lights, such as service station lighting or
covered entries, shall be fully recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that
no light source is visible from or causes glare on public rights-of-way or
adjacent properties.
      (4)   Area lights. All area lights shall use full cutoff type fixtures.
   (b)   Placement.
      (1)   Exterior lighting shall be installed in a manner that prevents the
light rays and/or illumination from being cast beyond any property boundary.
   (c)   Illuminance and type.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting fixtures with an output equal to or greater
than five hundred (500) initial lamp lumens shall be a full cutoff fixture and
fully shielded with the following exceptions:
         a.   Luminaires may be partially shielded provided that the lamp is
not visible and the luminaire has an opaque top or is under an opaque
structure.
         b.   Floodlights with external shielding shall be angled provided that
no light is directed above a twenty-five degree (25°) angle measured from a
vertical line from the center of the light extended to the ground.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting with an output of less than five hundred (500)
initial lamp lumens may be left unshielded.
      (3)   Lighting must be chosen to minimize the amount of short-wavelength
light emitted into the nighttime environment. The correlated color temperature
(CCT) of lamps shall not exceed three thousand (3,000) Kelvins.
      (4)   All metal halide and fluorescent fixtures shall be filtered with
glass, acrylic or translucent lamp enclosures.
      (5)   The installation of any mercury vapor fixture or lamp for use as
outdoor lighting is prohibited in any new construction or new replacement.
      (6)   Only high-pressure sodium (HIPS), low pressure sodium (LIPS), LED
or incandescent fixtures shall be permitted in commercial and multifamily
residential parking areas. (Ord. 433 § 1, 2021)
Sec. 18-7-50.   Exemptions.
   (a)   Temporary lighting.
   (b)   Traffic control signals and devices. (Ord. 433 § 1, 2021)
CHAPTER 19
Business and Event Permits
Article 1   Seasonal Outdoor Seating for Food Service Establishments
in the Central Business District
   Sec.
19-1-10   Purpose
   Sec.
19-1-20   Definitions
   Sec.
19-1-30   Permit procedures
   Sec.
19-1-40   Standards
   Sec.
19-1-50   Operating restrictions
   Sec.
19-1-60   Denial, revocation and suspension -- causes enumerated
   Sec.
19-1-70   Same -- hearing; demand; review; Council powers
   Sec.
19-1-80   Revocation or suspension; notice required; service
   Sec.
19-1-90   Renewal considered as original application
   Sec.
19-1-100   Transferal
   Sec.
19-1-110   Violations
   Sec.
19-1-120   Severability
ARTICLE 1
Seasonal Outdoor Seating For Food Service Establishments in the Central
Business District
Sec. 19-1-10.   Purpose.
   These seasonal outdoor seating regulations are designed to allow cafes,
restaurants, taverns and other food and beverage service establishments to
place outdoor seating within public rights-of-way in certain locations and
under certain circumstances defined within this section in order to:
   (a)   Provide additional space for cafes, restaurants and taverns to expand
their operations;
   (b)   Promote planned and orderly outdoor seating in public spaces as a
means of encouraging pedestrian activity and enhancing the pedestrian
experience in the downtown. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-20.   Definitions.
   Associated establishment or associated business means the business or
establishment with which and outdoor seating area is associated as specified in
the outdoor seating permit.
   Outdoor seating permit means a permit issued by the City for an associated
establishment or associated business to place outdoor seating within the City's
right-of-way, in the form of either a parklet or a sidewalk cafe, in a manner
which conforms to the procedures and regulations of this Chapter.
   Parklet means an outdoor seating area operated by a cafe, restaurant, tavern
or other food establishment which sells food or beverages for immediate
consumption, located within the adjacent parking zone, that provides seating
for patrons of said establishment, and contains readily removable tables,
chairs, railings, planters or other temporary amenities as approved by the City
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
   Sidewalk cafe means an outdoor dining area operated by a cafe, restaurant,
tavern or other food establishment which sells food or beverages for immediate
consumption, located on an adjacent section of public sidewalk, which contains
readily removable tables, chairs, railings, planters or other temporary
amenities as approved by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Chapter.
(Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-30.   Permit procedures.
   (a)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to issue permits to operate a
sidewalk cafe or parklet, collectively referred to hereafter as "outdoor
seating", within City-owned rights-of-way, provided that the applicant has
complied with all standards set forth in this Chapter.
   (b)   All applications for outdoor seating shall be reviewed and approved by
the City Manager. The City Manager reserves the right to forward an outdoor
seating permit application to the Board of Trustees for its review and
consideration.
   (c)   All permits shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire
on December 31 of the calendar year in which the permit was issued. Unless
another time frame is specified in the permit, or by the requirements of this
Chapter, the permit shall allow the operation of outdoor seating from June 1 up
to and including October 31 of the calendar year for which the permit is
issued.
   (d)   Any person or establishment granted a permit by the City Manager to
operate an outdoor seating area shall pay to the City Clerk a fee in the amount
established by resolution of the Board of Trustees. The City Manager shall not
issue a permit unless the fees required by this section are paid.
   (e)   Each permit application for outdoor seating shall be accompanied by an
insurance policy or certificate of insurance, in an amount that shall be one
million dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit for bodily injury and
property damage, each occurrence, and two million dollars ($2,000,000) annual
aggregate, naming the City as an additional insured party. An insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Colorado shall issue such insurance.
   (f)   The insurance certificate required by this Chapter shall be in effect
for any period during which the outdoor seating is in operation. Failure to
provide a current insurance certificate shall be cause for denial, suspension,
or revocation of an outdoor seating permit. No establishment shall operate a
sidewalk cafe or provide outdoor seating without filing proof of proper
insurance. Denied, suspended, or revoked permits may be re-instated upon
submittal of proof of proper insurance.
   (g)   An outdoor seating permit application must be submitted to the City
Manager for review and approval. No outdoor service of food and/or beverages
shall be established on public property, except in conformance with an
application reviewed and approved by the City Manager pursuant to the
requirements of this Chapter. An outdoor seating permit application must
include, but is not limited to including, the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Name of associated business;
      (3)   Address of associated business;
      (4)   Contact information of applicant, property owner and associated
business to include:
         a.   Telephone numbers;
         b.   Email addresses;
         c.   Physical addresses;
      (5)   Proposed hours of operation within the public right-of-way;
      (6)   Copy of certificate of insurance pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter;
      (7)   Written authorization from the owner of the property where the
applicant is not the owner of the associated property;
      (8)   An 11"x17" site plan that shall include, at a minimum, the
following information:
         a.   The boundaries of the associated property in its entirety along
with adjacent properties;
         b.   Streets and sidewalks for a distance of at least twenty-five (25)
feet from the boundaries of the associated property at a scale showing detail
sufficient for proper review.
         c.   The location of all temporary structures such as, but not limited
to, planters, landscaping, railings, tables, chairs and umbrellas;
         d.   All points of ingress and egress;
         e.   For proposed parklets, the design of all curb extensions and
platforms to accommodate the special design needs of the disabled in accordance
with current ADA standards;
   (h)   The City Manager shall distribute copies of all application materials
to the Public Works Director and other applicable City staff members and/or
consultants for review and comments;
   (i)   Based upon review comments from City staff, the City Manager may
approve, approve with conditions, refer the application back to the applicant
for modification, deny the application or refer the application to the Board of
Trustees. If approved, the City Manager shall issue the outdoor seating permit.
If the City Manager denies the application, the reason for this determination
shall be stated in a letter to the applicant issued not more than ten (10)
business days after the final determination has been made. The applicant may
appeal the decision of the City Manager in accordance with this Chapter. (Ord.
419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-40.   Standards.
   (a)   There shall be a minimum of forty-two (42) inches, exclusive of the
area occupied by proposed outdoor seating, designed to allow adequate
pedestrian movement. Outdoor seating shall only be permitted only when it is
determined that the proposed seating areas will not create a hazard, a sight
distance obstruction for motor vehicle operators, nor unduly impede pedestrian
traffic. The City Manager shall determine when a hazardous condition exists.
   (b)   Outdoor seating may only be located adjacent to the establishment with
which it is associated and may not extend past the associated property
frontage. Outdoor seating areas must remain clear of litter, food scraps and
soiled dishes at all times.
   (c)   Employees of the associated business shall continuously supervise
outdoor dining areas.
   (d)   Parklets shall not extend past the frontage of the associated business
and shall not be more than 6' wide x 14' long as shown in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1:
DESIGN AND PLACEMENT GUIDELINES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6f5d75e6eccf8a1f3ac265bb2564160b113b26f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2354.png]
 
   (e)   Parklets must utilize three inches (3") curb stops on either end to
prevent vehicular encroachment for adjacent parking spaces.
   (f)   Parklets must utilize removable decking that makes the seating area
level with the adjacent curb.
   (g)   Parklet platforms must be constructed so as not to impede drainage as
shown in Figure 2 below.
Figure 2
PARKLET DRAINAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6f5d75e6eccf8a1f3ac265bb2564160b113b26f3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2356.png]
 
   (h)    Parklet boundaries must be delineated with barriers such as planters
or a railing to physically separate patrons from pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
   (i)    Furnishings for outdoor seating shall consist solely of readily
removable railings, posts, tables, chairs, planters, table umbrellas and
associated anchors. Furnishings may only be attached or secured in a manner
approved by the City Manager.
   (j)   No structure or enclosure to accommodate the storage of accumulated
garbage may be erected or placed adjacent to or near the outdoor seating area.
Each establishment shall be responsible for providing appropriate containers
for disposing of garbage or waste and employees shall not use City trash
containers for disposing of garbage or waste.
   (k)   An outdoor seating area shall not interfere with any public service
facility, such as a mailbox, fire hydrant, designated pedestrian crossing or
bench located on a sidewalk or public property.
   (l)   Operation of an outdoor seating area shall not adversely impact
adjacent or nearby residential, religious, educational, or commercial
properties and shall be in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations.
   (m)   Tables, chairs, table umbrellas, railings, planters, and any other
objects provided with the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall be of quality
design, materials, and workmanship both to ensure the safety and convenience of
users and to enhance the visual and aesthetic quality of the area. Such
equipment shall be routinely cleaned, painted, or replaced and may be inspected
by the City Manager. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-50.   Operating restrictions.
   (a)   Outdoor seating areas shall only be permitted in the B-1 zone.
   (b)   All outdoor seating areas shall be allowed to operate during the
regular business hours of the associated business.
   (c)   The service of alcohol in outdoor seating areas is permitted so long
as proper liquor license permitting is obtained from both the City of Creede
Liquor Licensing Authority and the State of Colorado.
   (d)   All food to be served within an outdoor seating shall be prepared
within the associated establishment.
   (e)   The outdoor seating permit issued in accordance with this Chapter
shall be prominently displayed within the existing establishment along with
other required permits and licenses.
   (f)   From November 1 to May 31, chairs, railings, posts, planters, table
umbrellas, and other items shall be removed from the public right-of-way. It
shall be the responsibility of the establishment to secure adequate storage of
these items.
   (g)   The maintenance of an outdoor seating area shall be the responsibility
of the associated establishment including, but not limited to, surface
treatment and cleaning, litter control, sweeping and snow and ice removal. The
outdoor seating area shall be kept neat and clean at all times and free from
any substance that may cause damage to the sidewalk or public property or cause
pedestrian injury.
   (h)   During periods of snow accumulation, the placement of tables, chairs,
table umbrellas, railings, posts, planters, and other equipment associated with
the operation of an outdoor seating shall be removed and all activities shall
cease.
   (i)   The operation of an outdoor seating area shall not interfere with the
set up or the operation of any special event. When there is a conflict, the
outdoor seating area must be removed in its entirety for the duration of said
conflict. Conflicts shall be determined by and in the sole discretion of the
City Manager.
   (j)   All tables, chairs, table umbrellas, railings, posts, planters, and
other equipment associated with the operation of an outdoor seating area shall
be removed and stored inside of the associated establishment each night. (Ord.
419 § 1, 2020; Ord. 428 § 1, 2021)
Sec.19-1-60.   Denial, revocation and suspension -- causes enumerated.
   The issuance of an outdoor seating permit may be denied by the City Manager,
and permits issued may be revoked or suspended by the City Manager at any time,
for any of the following causes:
   (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the permit
application.
   (b)   Conducting a business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of peace or to constitute a menace to the health, moral,
safety or welfare of the public.
   (c)   Failure or inability of an applicant to meet and satisfy the
requirements and provisions of this Chapter and every other ordinance of the
City.
   (d)   Any violation received during the previous permit period. (Ord. 419 §
1, 2020)
Sec.19-1-70.   Same -- hearing; demand; review; Council powers.
   Any person whose permit is revoked or suspended, or any person whose
application for a permit is denied, shall have the right to a hearing before
the Board of Trustees, provided a written request therefore is filed with the
City Manager within ten (10) days following the delivery or mailing of the
notice of revocation or suspension, or within ten (10) days following the
denial of the permit application. No person shall operate any outdoor seating
area during any time when the permit therefore has been suspended, revoked, or
canceled. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-80.   Revocation or suspension; notice required; service.
   Written notice of suspension or revocation, stating the causes therefore,
shall be delivered to the permittee personally or mailed to the address as
shown in the permit application. Upon revocation of a license, all furnishings
and fixtures shall be removed from public property within twenty-four (24)
hours. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec.19-1-90.   Renewal considered as original application.
   Unless otherwise provided in this Article, an application for renewal of an
outdoor seating permit shall be considered in the same manner as an original
application. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec. 19-1-100.   Transferal.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this Article or any other ordinance
of the City shall be transferable. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec.19-1-110.   Violations.
   Any person who operates a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating on public
sidewalks or public property, without a permit, or who shall violate any of the
provisions of this Article shall be subject to penalties as provided in the
City of Creede Municipal Code. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
Sec.19-1-120.   Severability.
   If any clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this Article shall be adjudged
by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in
its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof
directly involved in the controversy and in which such judgment shall have been
rendered. (Ord. 419 § 1, 2020)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Code Comparison Table
Ordinance List and Disposition Table
CODE COMPARISON TABLE
Prior Code New Code
Prior Code New Code
1-1-1      1-1-20
           1-2-10,
           1-2-20,
           1-2-40,
1-1-2      1-2-50,
           1-3-10,
           1-3-20,
           1-3-40
1-1-3      1-3-80
1-1-4      1-3-130
1-1-5      Deleted
1-1-6      1-3-60
1-1-7      Deleted
1-1-8      1-3-110
2-1-1      2-2-10
2-1-2      2-2-30
2-1-3      2-2-40
2-1-4      2-2-50
2-2-1      2-2-10,
           2-2-20
           1-3-70,
2-2-2      2-2-70,
           2-2-80—
           2-2-130
2-2-3      2-2-140
2-2-4      2-2-150,
           2-3-30
2-2-7      2-2-60
2-4-1      2-3-70
2-4-2      2-3-70
2-4-3      2-3-70
2-5-1      2-3-80
2-5-2      2-3-70,
           2-3-80
2-5-3      2-3-80
2-6-1      2-3-90
2-6-2      2-3-90
2-7-1      2-1-20
2-7-2      Deleted
2-7-12     2-1-30
2-9-1      2-7-10
2-9-2      2-7-20
2-9-3      2-7-30
2-9-4      2-7-40
2-9-5      2-7-50
2-9-6      2-7-60
2-9-7      2-7-70
2-9-8      2-7-80
2-9-9      2-7-90
2-9-10     2-7-100
2-9-11     2-7-110
2-9-12     2-7-120
2-9-13     2-7-130
2-10-2     2-5-20
2-10-3     2-5-30
2-10-4     2-5-40
2-10-5     2-5-50
2-10-6     Deleted
2-10-7     2-5-60
2-10-8     Deleted
2-10-9     2-5-70
2-10-10    2-5-80
2-10-11    2-5-90
2-10-12    2-5-100
2-11-1     2-8-10
2-11-2     2-8-20
2-11-3     2-8-30
2-11-4     2-8-40
2-12-1     Deleted
2-12-2     Deleted
2-12-3     Deleted
2-12-4     Deleted
2-12-5     Deleted
2-12-6     Deleted
2-12-7     2-6-10
2-12-8     2-6-20
2-12-9     Deleted
2-12-10    Deleted
3-5-1      Deleted
3-5-2      Deleted
3-5-3      Deleted
3-5-4      Deleted
3-5-5      Deleted
3-5-6      Deleted
3-5-7      Deleted
3-5-8      Deleted
3-5-9      Deleted
3-5-10     Deleted
3-5-11     Deleted
3-5-12     Deleted
3-5-13     Deleted
3-5-14     Deleted
3-5-15     Deleted
3-5-16     Deleted
3-5-17     Deleted
3-5-18     Deleted
3-5-19     Deleted
3-5-20     Deleted
3-6-1      6-1-10
3-6-2      Deleted
3-6-3      6-1-30
3-6-4      Deleted
3-6-5      Deleted
3-6-6      Deleted
3-6-7      Deleted
3-6-8      Deleted
5-1-1      2-4-10
5-1-2      2-4-20
5-1-3      2-4-40
5-1-4      2-4-50
5-1-5      2-4-60
5-1-6      2-4-70
5-1-8      2-4-140
5-1-9      2-4-100
5-1-10     2-4-90
5-1-11     2-4-30
5-1-12     2-4-130
5-1-13     2-4-110
5-1-14     2-4-110
5-1-15     2-4-120
5-2-1      Deleted
5-2-2      Deleted
5-2-3      Deleted
5-2-4      Deleted
5-2-5      Deleted
5-2-6      Deleted
5-2-7      Deleted
5-2-8      Deleted
5-2-9      Deleted
5-2-10     Deleted
5-2-11     Deleted
5-2-12     Deleted
5-2-13     Deleted
5-2-14     Deleted
5-2-15     Deleted
5-2-16     Deleted
5-2-17     Deleted
5-2-18     Deleted
5-3-1      Deleted
5-3-2      Deleted
5-3-3      Deleted
5-3-4      Deleted
5-3-5      Deleted
5-3-6      Deleted
5-3-7      Deleted
5-3-8      Deleted
5-3-9      Deleted
5-3-10     Deleted
5-3-11     Deleted
5-3-12     Deleted
5-3-13     Deleted
8-1-1      Deleted
8-1-2      Deleted
8-1-3      Deleted
8-1-4      Deleted
8-1-5      Deleted
8-1-6      Deleted
8-1-7      Deleted
8-1-8      Deleted
8-1-9      Deleted
8-1-10     Deleted
8-1-11     Deleted
8-1-12     Deleted
8-1-13     Deleted
8-2-1      Deleted
8-2-2      Deleted
8-2-3      Deleted
8-2-4      Deleted
8-2-5      Deleted
8-2-6      Deleted
8-2-7      Deleted
8-2-8      Deleted
8-2-9      Deleted
8-2-10     Deleted
8-2-11     Deleted
8-3-1      Deleted
8-3-2      Deleted
8-3-3      Deleted
8-3-4      Deleted
8-3-5      Deleted
8-3-6      Deleted
8-3-7      Deleted
8-3-8      Deleted
8-3-9      Deleted
10-1-1     Deleted
10-1-2     Deleted
10-1-3     Deleted
10-1-4     Deleted
10-1-5     Deleted
10-1-6     Deleted
10-1-7     Deleted
10-1-8     Deleted
10-1-9     Deleted
10-2-1     Deleted
10-2-2     Deleted
10-2-3     Deleted
10-2-4     Deleted
10-2-5     Deleted
10-2-6     Deleted
10-2-7     Deleted
10-2-8     Deleted
10-2-9     Deleted
10-2-10    Deleted
10-2-11    Deleted
10-2-12    Deleted
10-3-1     10-4-20
10-3-2     10-4-30
10-3-3     10-4-50
10-3-4     10-3-40
10-3-5     10-4-40
10-3-6     Deleted
10-3-7     10-4-60
10-3-8     Deleted
10-3-9     10-3-50
10-3-10    10-3-60
10-4-1     10-6-10
10-4-2     10-6-40
10-4-3     10-6-50
10-4-4     10-8-30
10-4-5     10-6-60
10-4-6     10-6-70
10-4-7     10-6-80
10-5-1     10-5-100
10-5-2     10-5-130
10-5-3     10-5-120
10-5-4     10-12-10—
           10-12-70
10-5-5     10-5-110
10-5-6     10-5-80
10-5-7     10-5-60
10-5-8     10-5-10
10-5-9     10-8-40
10-5-10    10-8-70
10-5-11    10-5-70
10-5-12    10-1-30
10-5-13    10-5-20
10-5-14    10-3-30
10-5-15    10-9-20
10-5-16    10-9-30
10-5-17    10-9-40
10-5-18    10-9-50
10-5-19    10-5-90
10-5-20    10-5-40
10-6-1     Deleted
10-6-2     Deleted
10-6-3     Deleted
10-6-5     Deleted
10-6-6     Deleted
10-6-7     10-7-10
10-6-8     Deleted
10-6-9     10-7-20,
           10-7-30
10-6-10    Deleted
10-6-11    Deleted
10-6-12    10-7-40
10-6-13    10-7-50
10-6-14    10-7-60
10-7-1     10-11-10
10-7-2     10-11-20
10-7-3     10-11-30
10-7-4     10-11-40
10-7-5     10-11-50
10-7-6     10-11-60
10-7-7     10-11-70
10-8-1     10-10-10—
           10-10-60
10-8-2     Deleted
10-8-3     Deleted
10-8-4     Deleted
10-8-5     Deleted
10-8-6     Deleted
10-8-7     10-2-50
10-8-8     10-2-70
10-8-9     10-2-20
10-8-10    10-2-30
10-8-11    Deleted
10-8-12    10-3-30
10-8-13    10-13-10
10-8-14    10-1-60
11-1-1     7-7-10
11-1-2     Deleted
11-1-3     7-7-20
11-1-4     7-7-30
11-1-5     7-7-40
11-1-6     7-7-50
11-1-7     7-7-60
11-1-8     7-7-70
11-1-9     7-7-80
11-2-1     Deleted
11-2-2     Deleted
11-2-3     Deleted
11-2-4     7-7-210
11-2-5     7-7-220
11-2-6     Deleted
11-2-7     Deleted
11-2-8     Deleted
11-2-9     Deleted
11-2-10    Deleted
11-2-11    Deleted
11-2-12    Deleted
11-2-13    Deleted
11-2-14    Deleted
11-2-15    7-7-230
11-2-16    7-7-240
11-2-17    Deleted
11-2-18    7-7-250
11-2-19    Deleted
11-2-20    7-7-260
11-2-21    7-7-270
11-2-22    7-7-280
11-2-23    7-7-290
11-2-24    7-7-300
11-2-25    7-7-320
11-2-26    7-7-330
11-2-27    7-7-340
11-3-1     Deleted
11-3-2     Deleted
11-3-3     Deleted
11-3-4     Deleted
11-3-5     Deleted
11-3-6     Deleted
11-3-7     Deleted
11-3-8     Deleted
11-3-9     Deleted
11-3-10    Deleted
11-3-11    Deleted
11-3-12    Deleted
12-1-1     Deleted
12-1-2     7-3-10
12-1-3     7-3-30
12-1-4     7-3-40
12-1-5     7-3-50
12-1-6     7-3-60
12-1-7     7-3-70
12-1-8     7-3-80
12-1-9     7-3-90
12-1-10    7-3-100
12-1-11    Deleted
12-2-1     Deleted
12-2-2     7-4-10
12-2-3     7-4-20
12-2-4     7-4-30
12-2-5     7-4-40
12-2-6     7-4-50
12-2-7     7-4-60
12-2-8     7-4-70
12-2-9     7-4-80
12-2-10    7-4-90
12-2-11    7-4-100
18-2-1     2-10-10
18-2-2     2-10-20
18-2-3     2-10-30
           
 
 
ORDINANCE LIST AND DISPOSITION TABLE
Ord. No. Year Subject Section Disposition
Ord. No.   Year  Subject                     Section    Disposition
184        1971  Water regulations           9-1-1      13-1-70
                                             9-1-2      13-1-80
185        1972  Snowmobile regulations      15-2-1     8-2-10
                                           15-2-21  8-2-20
                                          15-2-33    8-2-30
187        1972  Compensation of Municipal              2-4-80
                 Judge
192        1974  Minors in taverns           2—4      Deleted
196        1975  1973 Uniform Building Code             Deleted
198        1975  Board of Trustees           1          2-2-10
                                            2          2-2-30
                                            3          2-2-20
200        1976  Fire Department             2—6      Deleted
201        1976  Sales tax                   2          4-3-10
                                            3          4-3-20
                                            5          4-3-40—
                                                        4-3-80 
                                            6          4-3-30
202        1976  Sales tax schedule          4          4-3-30
203        1976  Snow removal                1—4      11-1-20
206        1976  Dog regulations             2          7-7-240,
                                                        7-7-250
210        1977  Traffic regulation          2          8-1-60
212        1977  Pollution of water          2—4      Deleted
218        1980  Dog license fees                       Deleted
221        1980  Board of Trustees           1          2-2-120,
                 procedures                             2-2-130
226        1981  Water taps                  II         Deleted
227        1981  Sewer taps                  II         Deleted
228        1981  Water meters                1          Deleted
232        1983  Sewer tap permit            1          Deleted
                                            2          Deleted
                 Building fees               3          Deleted
233        1983  Delinquent water bills      1          Deleted
234        1983  Compensation of Town        2          2-3-60
                 Administrator
236        1983  Capital Improvements Fund   2          4-2-30
                                            3, 5       4-3-20
243        1984  Water charges               I          Deleted
251        1985  Police Department           1          2-5-10
259        1986  Sewer rates                 I, II      Deleted
70         1989  Flood prevention            1          Deleted
                Building permits            4.1        18-1-10
                                           4.2        18-1-20
                                           4.3        18-1-30
                                           4.4        18-1-40
                                           5          Deleted
                                           6          Deleted
276        1990  Electric franchise          Art. I     Deleted
                                           2.1        Deleted
                                           2.2        Deleted
                                           2.3        Deleted
                                           2.4        Deleted
                                           2.5        Deleted
                                           3.1        Deleted
                                           3.2        Deleted
                                           3.3        Deleted
                                           3.4        Deleted
                                           3.5        Deleted
                                           4.1        Deleted
                                           4.2        Deleted
                                           5.1        Deleted
                                           5.2        Deleted
                                           5.3        Deleted
                                           5.4        Deleted
                                           5.5        Deleted
286        1992  Election                    1          2-1-20
                                           2, 3       2-1-30
288        1992  Snowmobile regulations      Part 2     Deleted
                Nonmotorized devices        Part 3     Deleted
                                           Part 4     8-1-20
293        1993  Dogs running at large       1          7-7-300
298        1994  Permit to operate horse-    2          6-2-10—
                 drawn carriages                        6-2-110
301        1996  Water rates                 II         Deleted
303        1998  Adopting 1995 Model Traffic 1          8-1-10
                 Code
304        1998  Dog rabies vaccination      II         7-7-210
305        1998  Compensation of Board of    1          2-2-60
                 Trustees
306        1998  Animal offenses             II         10-11-10
308        1998  Noise regulations           1          Repealed
311        2000  Compensation of Board of    1          2-2-60
                 Trustees
312        2000  Rock climbing               1          10-13-20
314        2000  Dogs in ball park           1—3      7-7-310
318        2001  Traffic regulations         1          8-1-70
324        2001  Excavation permits                     11-2-10
                                           1          11-2-40
                                            2          11-2-50
325        2002  Utility drainage fees       II—IV    Deleted
327        2002  Board of Trustees meeting   1          2-2-70
                 times
331        2003  Board of Trustees meeting   1          2-2-70
                 times
333        2004  Utility delinquent charges  1, 2       Deleted
                                             1.1        13-1-10
                                             1.2        13-1-20
                                             1.3        13-1-30
                                             1.4        13-1-40
                                             1.5        13-1-50
                                             1.6        13-1-60
                                             1.7        13-1-90
                                             2.1        13-2-10
                                             2.2        13-2-20
                                             2.3        13-2-30
                                             2.4        13-2-40
                                             2.5        13-2-50
                                             3.1        13-3-10
                                             3.2        13-3-20
                                             3.3        13-3-30
                                             3.4        13-3-40
                                             3.5        13-3-50
                                             3.6        13-3-60
                                             3.7        13-3-70
                                             3.8        13-3-80
                                             3.9        13-3-90
                                             3.10       13-3-100
                                             3.11       13-3-110
                                             3.12       13-3-120
                                             3.13       13-3-130
                                             4.1        13-4-10
                                             4.2        13-4-20
                                             4.4        13-4-100
334        2005  Water and sewer regulations 4.5        13-4-110
                                             5.1        13-5-10
                                             5.2        13-5-20
                                             5.3        13-5-30
                                             5.4        13-5-40
                                             5.5        13-5-50
                                             5.6        13-5-60
                                             5.7        13-5-70
                                             6.1        13-6-10
                                             6.2        13-6-20
                                             6.3        13-6-30
                                             6.4        13-6-40
                                             6.5        13-6-50
                                             6.6        13-6-60
                                             6.7        13-6-70
                                             4.3        13-4-30—
                                             6.8        13-4-90
                                             6.9        13-6-80
                                             6.10       13-6-90
                                             6.11       13-6-100
                                             6.12       13-6-110
                                             6.13       13-6-120
                                             6.14       13-6-130
                                             6.16       13-6-140
                                             7.1        13-6-150
                                             7.2        13-7-10
                                             7.6        13-7-20
                                             7.7        13-7-30
                                             7.8        13-7-40
                                                        13-7-50
                                             1          18-2-10,
335        2005  Building and Residential    3          18-2-20
                 Codes                       4          18-2-30
                                                        18-2-50
336        2005  Noise                       3          10-10-10—
                                                        10-10-60
340        2006  Distance from schools for   2          Deleted
                 liquor licenses
                                             1          Deleted
342        2006  Planning and Zoning         2—5      Deleted
                 Commission                  6          Deleted
                                             7          Deleted
                                             1          2-4-20
                 Qualified Municipal Court   2, 3       2-4-140
343        2007  of records                  4          2-4-160
                                             5          2-4-150
                                             6          2-4-20
Prior agmt 2002  Cable franchise                        5-1-10—
                                                        5-1-280
Resolution 05-04                                        15-1-10
Resolution 07-12 Appeal procedures                      Ch. 13, Art. 7
                                                        1-1-10—
                                                        1-1-80,
                                                        1-2-10—
                                                        1-2-50,
                                                        1-3-10—
                                                        1-3-130,
                                                        1-4-10,
                                                        1-4-40—
                                                        1-4-60,
                                                        1-5-10—
                                                        1-5-30,
                                                        1-6-10,
                                                        2-1-10—
                                                        2-1-30,
                                                        2-2-10—
                                                        2-2-40,
                                                        2-2-60—
                                                        2-2-130,
                                                        2-2-150,
                                                        2-2-160,
                                                        2-3-10—
                                                        2-3-30,
                                                        2-3-60—
                                                        2-3-100,
                                                        2-4-10—
                                                        2-4-40,
                                                        2-4-60—
                                                        2-4-110,
                                                        2-4-140,
                                                        2-5-10,
                                                        2-5-30—
                                                        2-5-50,
                                                        2-5-80—
                                                        2-5-100,
                                                        2-7-10—
                                                        2-7-30,
                                                        2-7-80,
                                                        2-8-40,
                                                        2-9-40,
                                                        2-10-10,
                                                        2-10-30,
                                                        4-1-10,
                                                        4-2-10—
                                                        4-2-70,
                                                        4-3-20—
                                                        4-3-80,
                                                        5-1-10,
                                                        5-1-50,
                                                        5-1-140,
                                                        5-1-160,
                                                        6-1-10—
                                                        6-1-60,
                                                        6-2-20—
                                                        6-2-40,
                                                        7-3-10,
                                                        7-3-20,
                                                        7-3-70,
                                                        7-3-80,
                                                        7-4-70,
                                                        7-6-10—
                                                        7-6-30,
                                                        7-7-10—
                                                        7-7-70,
                                                        7-7-240,
                                                        7-7-290,
                                                        7-7-310,
                                                        8-1-10—
                                                        8-1-60,
                                                        8-1-80,
347        2008  Adopts Municipal Code       1          8-2-10—
                                                        8-2-30,
                                                        10-1-10—
                                                        10-1-50,
                                                        10-2-10—
                                                        10-2-70,
                                                        10-3-10—
                                                        10-3-60,
                                                        10-4-10—
                                                        10-4-110,
                                                        10-5-10—
                                                        10-5-80,
                                                        10-5-100—
                                                        10-5-140,
                                                        10-6-10—
                                                        10-6-80,
                                                        10-7-10—
                                                        10-7-60,
                                                        10-8-10—
                                                        10-8-50,
                                                        10-8-70—
                                                        10-8-110,
                                                        10-9-10—
                                                        10-9-50,
                                                        10-10-10—
                                                        10-8-90,
                                                        10-10-60,
                                                        10-11-10—
                                                        10-11-70,
                                                        10-12-10—
                                                        10-12-30,
                                                        10-12-70,
                                                        10-13-20,
                                                        11-1-10,
                                                        11-1-20,
                                                        11-2-10—
                                                        11-2-50,
                                                        13-1-80,
                                                        13-3-40,
                                                        13-3-80,
                                                        13-3-120,
                                                        13-3-130,
                                                        13-4-40,
                                                        13-4-100,
                                                        13-4-110,
                                                        13-5-30,
                                                        13-5-70,
                                                        13-6-10,
                                                        13-6-20,
                                                        13-6-50—
                                                        13-6-110,
                                                        13-6-140,
                                                        13-6-150,
                                                        13-7-20,
                                                        13-7-50,
                                                        15-1-10—
                                                        15-1-60,
                                                        18-1-40,
                                                        18-1-110—
                                                        18-1-170,
                                                        18-2-10—
                                                        18-2-50,
                                                        18-3-10—
                                                        18-3-30,
                                                        18-4-10—
                                                        18-4-30,
                                                        18-5-10—
                                                        18-5-30,
                                                        18-6-10—
                                                        18-6-30
                                                        Deleted
                                             2          7-3-50
                                             3          7-3-60
346        2009  Waste disposal services     4          7-3-70
                                             5          Added
                                             6          7-3-110
                                             7          Added
                                                        7-3-120
                                                        Added
                                                        13-8-10
                                             1          Added
348        2009  Water and sewer activity    2          13-8-20
                 enterprise                  3          Added
                                             4          13-8-30
                                                        Added
                                                        13-8-40
354        2009  Mail ballot elections       1,2        2-1-10
369        2011  Board of Adjustment         2             Deleted
375        2013  Marijuana establishments    3          Added
                                                        10-8-120
376        2013  Alcohol sales near schools  2             
                                                        10-8-60
377        2013  Planning and Zoning         2             Deleted
                 Commission
385        2015  Electric franchise          2          Rpl. Ch. 5, Art. 2.
                                                           
393        2015  Elections                   2          2-1-10—
                                                        2-1-30
                                                        Rpl.
                                                        2-9-10—
                                                        2-9-30,
                                                        Ch. 2, Art.10
                                                        Added
                                                        9-1-10 —
                                                        9-1-200 ,
                                                        9-2-10 —
                                                        9-2-70 ,
                                             2          9-3-10 —
395        2016  Development Code            3          9-3-140 ,
                                             3          9-4-10 —
                                                        9-4-200 ,
                                                        9-5-10 —
                                                        9-5-160 ,
                                                        9-6-10 —
                                                        9-6-250 ,
                                                        9-8-10 —
                                                        9-8-140 ,
                                                        9-9-10
                                                        9-7-10—9-7-80 deleted
397        2016  Operation of off-highway    3             Added
                 vehicles                               8-3-10
398        2016  Development Code            2             deleted
399        2016  Operation of off-highway    1             
                 vehicles                               8-3-10
400        2017  Building regulations        2          Added
                                                        18-2-15
                                                           
407        2017  General penalty             1—3      1-4-20,
                                                        1-4-30,
                                                        2-4-170
                                             1          10-8-120
408        2017  Marijuana regulations       2          Rpl.
                                                        10-8-100
                                                        2-3-10,
409        2017  Town officers               1—3      2-3-40,
                                                        2-3-50
412        2018  Traffic Code                1          8-1-10
                                          2          8-1-80
                                          3          8-1-40
                                          6          8-1-50
                                                        Added
417        2019  Purchasing and procurement  1          4-4-10—
                                                        4-4-140
                                                        Added
419        2020  Seasonal outdoor seating    1          19-1-10—
                                                        19-1-120
420        2020  Disposal of snow and ice    1          Added
                                                        11-1-30
421        2020  Planning and Zoning         1          2-9-40
                 Commission
                                          Added      2-9-10—
                                                        2-9-30
422        2020  Sidewalk displays           1          Added
                                                        11-1-40
423        2020  Town sales tax              1          4-2-30,
                                                        4-3-30
426        2021  Value for vacated lands     1          9-3-100
428        2021  Seasonal outdoor seating,   1          19-1-50
                 alcohol regulations
429        2021  Mobile food vendors         1          9-4-200
                 Exterior lighting                      Added
433        2021  requirements                1          18-7-10—
                                                        18-7-50
436        2022  Highway Mixed Use District  1          9-4-90
437        2022  Temporary uses and          1          9-4-200
                 structures
438        2022  Water systems               1          13-4-20
439        2022  Mayor and Board of Trustees 1          2-2-10
                                          2          2-2-80
445        2023  Alcoholic beverages         1          6-1-10
                                          2          6-1-20
                                          3          6-1-30
                                          4          6-1-50
                                          5          10-8-10
                                          6          10-8-60
                                          7          10-8-80
446        2023  Exemptions from sales tax   1          4-3-50
447        2023  Development code fees       1          9-1-100
448        2023  Utility late payments       1          13-6-140
449        2023  Publication of ordinances   1          1-3-70
450        2024  Water systems; backflow     1          13-4-20
                 prevention
451        2024  Disposal of snow and ice    1          11-1-30
452        2024  Utility late payments       1          13-6-140
                                                        Rpl.
                                                        7-1-10—
                                                        7-1-130
                                                        Added
                                                        7-1-10—
                                             1          7-1-130
                                                       Rpl.
                                             2          7-2-10—
453        2024  Nuisances                             7-2-160
                                             3          Added
                                             4          7-2-10—
                                                        7-2-170
                                                        7-3-30,
                                                        7-3-120
                                                        Rpl.
                                                        7-5-10—
                                                        7-5-40
454        2024  Overnight camping           1          Added 10-3-70
                                             2          Added 10-3-80
455        2024  Carrying a concealed weapon 1          10-9-20
446        2025  Alcoholic beverages         1          6-1-10
457        2025  Municipal utlities          1          13-6-140
459        2025  Floodplain damage           1          Rpl. 9-7-10—9-7-80
                 prevention                             Added 9-7-10—9-7-50
                                           
 
