HAXTUN, COLORADO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-5, passed 5-20-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Definitions
   
10.02   Title of office
   
10.03   Interpretation of language
   
10.04   Grammatical interpretation
   
10.05   Acts by agents
   
10.06   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting
   
10.07   Computation of time
   
10.08   Construction
   
10.09   Repeal shall not revive any ordinance
   
10.10   Ordinances saved from repeal
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Haxtun. ALL ITS MEMBERS or ALL
BOARD MEMBERS means the total number of Board members holding office.
   CITY and TOWN. Each mean the Town of Haxtun, Colorado, or the area within
the territorial limits of the Town of Haxtun, Colorado, and such territory
outside of the town over which the county has jurisdiction or control by virtue
of any constitutional or statutory provision.
   COUNTY. The County of Phillips, Colorado.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Colorado, the ordinances of the Town of Haxtun and, when appropriate,
any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUST and SHALL. The act referred to are each mandatory.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OWNER. Applies to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any
of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Colorado.
   STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the town which have or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, include any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WRITTEN. Includes printed, typewritten, mimeo-graphed, multi-graphed or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.010) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.02 TITLE OF OFFICE.
   Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission
means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the town/
county.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.020) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.03 INTERPRETATION OF LANGUAGE.
   All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be
construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.030) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.04 GRAMMATICAL INTERPRETATION.
   The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of the town,
unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is
intended.
   (A)   Gender. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
   (B)   Singular and plural. The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   (C)   Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the
future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.040) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.05 ACTS BY AGENTS.
   When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.050) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.06 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the town, any act or omission is made
unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.060) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.07 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to
be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last
day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.070) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.08 CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the town, and all proceedings under
them, are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote
justice.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.080) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.09 REPEAL SHALL NOT REVIVE ANY ORDINANCE.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an
ordinance or revive any ordinance, which has been repealed thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1.04.090) (Ord. passed 2-7-1983)
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and parts
of ordinances, although omitted from this code, shall not be affected by such
omission therefrom, and the adoption of this code shall not repeal or amend any
such ordinance or part of any such ordinance. Among the ordinances not repealed
or amended by the adoption of this code are ordinances:
   (A)   Creating, opening, dedicating, vacating or closing specific streets,
alleys and other public ways;
   (B)   Naming or changing the names of specific streets and other public
ways;
   (C)   Establishing the grades of specific streets and other public ways;
   (D)   Establishing the grades or lines of specific sidewalks;
   (E)   Authorizing or relating to specific issuances of general obligation
bonds;
   (F)   Creating specific sewer and paving districts and other local
improvement districts;
   (G)   Authorizing the issuance of specific local improvement district bonds;
   (H)   Making special assessments for local improvement districts and
authorizing refunds from specific local improvement district bond proceeds;
   (I)   Annexing territory to or excluding territory from the town;
   (J)   Dedicating or accepting any specific plat or subdivision;
   (K)   Calling or providing for a specific election;
   (L)   Authorizing specific contracts for purchase of beneficial use of water
by the town;
   (M)   Approving or authorizing specific contracts with the state, with other
governmental bodies or with others;
   (N)   Authorizing a specific lease, sale or purchase of property;
   (O)   Granting rights-of-way or other rights and privileges to specific
railroad companies or other public carriers;
   (P)   Granting a specific gas company or other public utility the right or
privilege of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise using
the streets and alleys;
   (Q)   Granting a franchise to a specific public utility company or
establishing rights for or otherwise regulating a specific public utility
company;
   (R)   Appropriating money;
   (S)   Levying a temporary tax or fixing a temporary tax rate;
   (T)   Relating to salaries; and
   (U)   Amending the Official Zoning Map.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation; misdemeanor; exception. Any person violating any of
the provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of
any ordinances of the town is guilty of a misdemeanor, unless the violation is
made an infraction by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1.20.010)
      (2)   Misdemeanor; penalty. Except in cases where a different punishment
is prescribed by any ordinance of the town, any person convicted of a
misdemeanor for violation of an ordinance of the town is punishable by a fine
of not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 1.20.020)
      (3)   A petty offense includes those offenses for which a fine only may
be imposed upon conviction of a violation.
      (4)   Infraction; penalty. Any person convicted of an infraction for
violation of an ordinance of the town is punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $50 for first violation;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a second violation of the same
ordinance within one year; and
         (c)   A fine of not exceeding $300 for each additional violation of
the same ordinance within one year.
(Prior Code, § 1.20.030)
      (5)   Each a separate offense. Each such person is guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provision of the ordinances of the town is committed, continued or permitted by
any such person, and he or she is punishable accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1.20.040)
(Ord. 82-10, passed - -1982; Ord. passed 2-7-1983; Ord. -, Series 2000, passed
1-8-2001; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
   
11.02   Fiscal year
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   The official seal and device for the town shall be in words and form as
follows: a circle around the margin of which shall be the words “Town of
Haxtun, Phillips County, State of Colorado”, within which words shall be a
smaller circle in the center of which shall be the word “SEAL” and around the
upper margin of the inner circle shall be the word “Incorporated”.
(Prior Code, § 1.08.010) (Ord. 33, passed - -1911)
§ 11.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. § 29-1-103, the fiscal year of the town shall commence
January 1.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.010) (Ord. 196, passed - -1965)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Mayor; term
   
30.02   Board members; terms
   
30.03   Vacancies
§ 30.01 MAYOR; TERM.
   At the 4-4-1972 election, and at the regular election every four years
thereafter, a Mayor shall be elected to serve a four-year term.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.010) (Ord. 72-2, passed - -1972)
§ 30.02 BOARD MEMBERS; TERMS.
   (A)   At the 4-4-1972 election, six Board members shall be elected.
   (B)   The three candidates for Board member receiving highest number of
votes shall be elected for four-year terms, and the three candidates for Board
member receiving the next highest numbers of votes shall be elected for two-
year terms.
   (C)   At the next subsequent regular election and at each regular election
thereafter, three Board members shall be elected to serve four-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.020) (Ord. 72-2, passed - -1972)
§ 30.03 VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have power, by appointment, to fill all
vacancies in the Board of Trustees or in any other elected office in accordance
with state law.
   (B)   If vacancy was to extend beyond the next regular election, the person
elected to fill the vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term.
   (C)   Where a vacancy or vacancies exist in the office of Board of Trustees
and a successor or successors are to be elected at the next election to fill
the unexpired term or terms, the three candidates for Board member receiving
the highest number of votes shall be elected to four-year terms and the
candidate or candidates receiving the next highest number of votes, in
descending order, shall be elected to fill the unexpired term or terms.
(Prior Code, § 2.04.030) (Ord. 72-2, passed - -1972)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Appointing officers
   
31.02   Elections; write-in candidates; cancellation
Officers
   
31.15   Town Clerk
   
31.16   Town Treasurer
   
31.17   Town Attorney
   
31.18   Street Commissioner
Organizations
   
31.30   Council of Governments
   
31.31   Library Board of Trustees
   
31.32   Historic Preservation Advisory Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may appoint one person to hold one or more
appointive offices if, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the appointive
positions are not incompatible with each other and not incompatible with
interest of the town government.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.010)
   (B)   It is the determination of the Board of Trustees that the position of
Clerk and the position of Treasurer are not incompatible and the Board of
Trustees may appoint one person to the positions of Town Clerk and Town
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.40.020)
(Ord. 88-1, passed - -1988)
§ 31.02 ELECTIONS; WRITE-IN CANDIDATES; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Write-in candidate affidavit. No write-in vote for any municipal
office shall be counted unless an affidavit of intent has been filed with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer by the person whose name is written in prior to 64 days
before the day of the election indicating that such person desires the office
and is qualified to assume the duties of that office if elected.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.010)
   (B)   Election may be canceled; when. If the only matter before the voters
is the election of persons to office and if, at the close of business on the
sixty-fourth day before the election, there are not more candidates than
offices to be filled at such election, including candidates filing affidavits
of intent, the Town Clerk/Treasurer if instructed by resolution of the
governing body either before or after such date, shall cancel the election and
by resolution declare the candidates elected. Upon such declaration, the
candidates shall be deemed elected. Notice of such cancellation shall be
published, if possible, in order to inform the electors of municipality and
notice of such cancellation shall be posted at each polling place and in not
less than one public place.
(Prior Code, § 2.44.020)
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-6-2020)
OFFICERS
§ 31.15 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. 
      (1)   The Board of Trustees, at its first regular meeting after each
biennial election, shall appoint some qualified person as Town Clerk.
      (2)   In case a vacancy should occur in the Office of Clerk, the Board of
Trustees shall appoint a Clerk for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.010)
   (B)   Oath. Before entering upon oath the duties of the office, the Clerk
shall take an oath of office.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.020)
   (C)   Duties. The Town Clerk shall perform the following duties.
      (1)   The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and
shall make true and accurate record of all of the proceedings.
      (2)   The Clerk shall keep true and accurate record of all rules,
ordinances and resolutions made and passed by the Board of Trustees and shall,
by his or her signature, certify any rules, ordinances and resolutions passed
by the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The Clerk shall be custodian of all of the town’s records, except
criminal justice records made and maintained by the town’s Police Department;
he or she shall keep such records open for public inspection at reasonable
times as provided by law.
      (4)   The Clerk shall be the custodian of the town seal.
      (5)   The Clerk shall supervise the registration of voters for municipal
elections and the administration of the elections.
      (6)   The Clerk shall supervise the issuance of all licenses,
authorization of building permits and other city licenses or permits.
      (7)   The Clerk shall perform any other duties prescribed in state
statutes, local ordinances or by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.030)
   (D)   Removal. 
      (1)   By the vote of four Board members, the Clerk may be removed from
office.
      (2)   No such removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an
opportunity of hearing being given, unless the Clerk moves outside the limits
of the town.
      (3)   Inability of the Town Clerk to perform his or her duties without
conflict with the duties of the Town Treasurer may be grounds for removal.
(Prior Code, § 2.32.040)
(Ord. 86-1, passed - -1986)
§ 31.16 TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. 
      (1)   The Board of Trustees, at its first regular meeting after each
biennial election, shall appoint some qualified person as Town Treasurer.
      (2)   In case a vacancy should occur in the Office of Treasurer, the
Board of Trustees shall appoint a Treasurer for the unexpired term.
      (3)   The Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, appoint the Town
Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.010)
   (B)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Treasurer
shall take an oath or affirmation of office.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.020)
   (C)   Duties. The Town Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Receive all moneys belonging to the town and shall keep his or her
books and accounts in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such books
and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection of any member of the
governing body;
      (2)   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the
debits and credits belonging thereto;
      (3)   Give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor
specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid, and he or she shall
also file statements of such receipts with the Town Clerk on the date of his or
her monthly report;
      (4)   Render an account to the governing body or such officer as may be
designated by ordinance, at the end of each month and more often if required,
showing the state of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance
of money in the treasury. He or she shall also accompany such accounts with a
statement of all moneys received in the treasury and on what account during the
preceding month, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her.
Said warrants, with any vouchers held by the Treasurer, shall be delivered to
the Clerk and filed with his or her account in the Clerk’s office upon every
day of such statement. He or she shall return all warrants paid by him or her
stamped or marked “paid”. He or she shall keep a register of all warrants
redeemed and paid, which shall describe such warrants and show the date,
amount, number, the fund from which paid and the name of the person to whom and
when paid;
      (5)   The Treasurer shall deposit all the funds and moneys that come into
his or her possession by virtue of his or her office as designated by the Board
of Trustees;
      (6)   Treasurer shall report to the Board of Trustees as often as
required by the Board of Trustees a full and detailed account of all receipts
and expenditures of the town as shown by his or her books up to the time of his
or her report;
      (7)   The Treasurer shall annually, by March 1 after the close of the
fiscal year, make out and file with the Clerk a full and detailed account of
all such receipts and expenditures and of all his or her transactions as such
treasurer during the preceding fiscal year and shall show in such account the
state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year; and
      (8)   The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed
by state statutes, local ordinances or by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.030)
   (D)   Removal. 
      (1)   By the vote of four Board members, the Treasurer may be removed
from office.
      (2)   No such removal shall be made without a charge in writing and an
opportunity of hearing being given, unless the Treasurer moves outside the
limits of the town.
      (3)   Inability of the Town Treasurer to perform his or her duties
without conflict with the duties of the Town Clerk may be grounds for removal.
(Prior Code, § 2.36.040)
(Ord. 86-2, passed - -1986)
§ 31.17 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   A regular practicing attorney shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees as Attorney of the Town, who shall be the legal advisor of the Board
of Trustees and of the officers of the town.
   (B)   The attorney so appointed shall receive as compensation the sum of
$100 per year, together with his or her actual expenses incurred by the
attorney for the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.08.010) (Ord. 34, passed - -1911)
§ 31.18 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the Office of Street Commissioner of
the town, who shall be an elector of the town and be appointed by and hold
office at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.010)
   (B)   Duties. The Street Commissioner so appointed shall have the
supervision, care and control of all streets and alleys of the town, subject to
the direction of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2.28.020)
(Ord. 34, passed - -1911; Ord. 82-4, passed - -1982)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.30 COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption. The city adopts a plan to cooperate with other political
subdivisions in the creation of the Northeastern Colorado Council of
Governments, as provided for in Colorado Constitution Art. 14, § 18(2), and
C.R.S. §§ 29-1-201 et seq. and 29-1-401 et seq. and further adopts the
recommended rules, regulations, plan of organization and operation of the
Northeastern Colorado Council of Governments as set forth in the “Articles of
Association” adopted by official representatives of the several counties and
municipalities cooperating in the organization of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.010)
   (B)   Functions, powers and duties. The Northeastern Colorado Council of
Governments shall have the functions, powers and duties which are prescribed by
law, and set forth in the Council’s Articles of Association.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.020)
   (C)   Representative.
      (1)   The representation of the town on the Northeastern Colorado Council
of Governments shall consist of one voting representative, who shall represent
all incorporated municipalities in the county which are affiliated with the
Council.
      (2)   The representative shall similarly be selected by majority vote of
all incorporated municipalities in the county which are affiliated with the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.12.030)
(Ord. 73-1, passed - -1973)
§ 31.31 LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Establishment. A public library and reading room for the town is
created and shall be managed and controlled by the Library Board of Trustees,
appointed by the Mayor for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.010)
   (B)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Mayor of the town shall appoint not fewer than five, nor more
than seven, citizens of the town to serve as the Library Board of Trustees for
the public library of the town.
      (2)   The first appointments of the Library Board of Trustees shall serve
for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, respectively. If there are
more than five Trustees, then Trustees shall be appointed in such a manner so
as to ensure a trustee is appointed annually to serve a five-year term.
      (3)   Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term
as soon as possible in the manner in which the Trustees are regularly chosen.
      (4)   A Trustee shall not receive a salary, nor other compensation, for
the services as Trustee.
      (5)   The Library Board of Trustees, immediately after their appointment,
shall meet and organize by the election of a President and a Secretary and such
other officers as deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.020)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Library Board of Trustees shall:
      (1)   Adopt bylaws, rules and regulations for its own guidance and for
the government of the public library at it deems expedient;
      (2)   Have supervision, care and custody of all property of the public
library including rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart therefor;
      (3)   Employ a librarian, and upon the librarian’s recommendation, employ
such other employees as may be necessary, prescribe their duties and fix their
compensation;
      (4)   Submit annually a budget as required by law and certify to the
Board of Trustees of the town the sums necessary to maintain and operate the
public library for the ensuing year;
      (5)   Have exclusive control of the disbursements of the finances of the
public library;
      (6)   Authorize the purchase of public library materials and equipment;
and
      (7)   Do all other acts necessary for the orderly and efficient
management, operation and control of the public library.
(Prior Code, § 2.20.030)
(Ord. 82-3, passed - -1982)
§ 31.32 HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation.
      (1)   A Historic Preservation Advisory Board is created.
      (2)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall have principal
responsibility for matters of historic preservation as set forth in this
section and §§
32.15 through
32.25.
   (B)   Membership. The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall consist of
five members from the town and may include members from the surrounding area.
   (C)   Appointments and terms of office. 
      (1)   Members of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees and shall serve three-year terms.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall give reasonable opportunity to
interested parties to nominate individuals to serve as members of the Historic
Preservation Advisory Board.
      (3)   The initial terms for members shall be one member for a one-year
term, two members for a two-year term and two members for a three-year term.
   (D)   Vacancies.
      (1)   Any duly appointed member of the Historic Preservation Advisory
Board shall continue to serve until the member’s successor has been appointed.
      (2)   Members may be appointed to serve successive terms without
limitation.
      (3)   Appointments to fill vacancies on the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board shall be made by the Board of Trustees; provided, however, that
the Board of Trustees shall give reasonable opportunity to interested parties
along with the Historic Preservation Advisory Board to nominate individuals to
serve as members of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board.
   (E)   Compensation; removal.
      (1)   All members of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall serve
without compensation except for such amounts determined appropriate by the
Board of Trustees to offset expenses incurred by Historic Preservation Advisory
Board members in the performance of their duties as Historic Preservation
Advisory Board members.
      (2)   All members of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall serve
at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees, and may be removed by the Board of
Trustees at any time with or without cause.
   (F)   Quorum and voting.
      (1)   A quorum for the Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall consist
of a majority of the members of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board,
excluding vacant seats.
      (2)   A quorum is necessary for the Historic Preservation Advisory Board
to hold a meeting or to take official action.
      (3)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
      (4)   A tie vote shall be deemed denial of the motion or recommended
action.
   (G)   Officers. The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall, by majority
vote, elect one of its members to serve as Chairperson to preside over the
Historic Preservation Advisory Board’s meetings, one member to serve as Vice-
Chair and one member to serve as secretary. The members so designated shall
serve in these capacities for terms of one year and may serve successive terms.
   (H)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall hold meetings as
necessary to take action on pending matters.
      (2)   Minutes shall be kept of all Historic Preservation Advisory Board
meetings.
      (3)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall comply with all
requirements of the State Open Meetings Law (C.R.S. §§ 24-6-401 and 24-6-402 et
seq.) applicable to local public bodies.
   (I)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall:
         (a)   Review applications for designation of sites as being historic
pursuant to this section and §§
32.15 through
32.25 and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees as to whether the Board
of Trustees should, by resolution, designate the site based on the criteria in
§
32.17;
         (b)   Review and recommend approval or denial of any proposed
demolition of, moving of or alteration to historic sites; and
         (c)   As needed, review the criteria for designation of historic sites
and make recommendations to the Board of Trustees for amendments thereto which
the Historic Preservation Advisory Board believes appropriate or necessary.
      (2)   In addition to the above duties, the Historic Preservation Advisory
Board may, at its discretion:
         (a)   Advise and assist owners of historic properties on the physical
and financial aspects of preservation, renovation, rehabilitation and reuse,
including nomination to the State Register of Historic Properties and National
Register of Historic Places;
         (b)   Develop and assist in public education programs including, but
not limited to, walking tours, brochures, a marker program of historic
properties, lectures and conferences;
         (c)   Conduct surveys of historic sites for the purpose of defining
those of historic significance and prioritizing the importance of identified
historic sites;
         (d)   Advise the Board of Trustees on matters related to preserving
the historic character of the town;
         (e)   Pursue financial assistance for preservation-related programs;
and
         (f)   Perform duties or functions as assigned by the Board of
Trustees.
   (J)   Rules and procedures for the Historic Preservation Advisory Board. The
Historic Preservation Advisory Board may establish additional rules of
operation that are consistent with its duties as enumerated herein.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
Cross-reference:
   Historic preservation regulations, see §§
32.15 through
32.25
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Disposition of unclaimed property
Historic Preservation
   
32.15   Purpose and intent
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Criteria for designation of historic sites
   
32.18   Procedure for designation of historic sites
   
32.19   Limitation on resubmission and reconsideration of proposed designations
   
32.20   Amendment of designation
   
32.21   Revocation of designation
   
32.22   Maintenance
   
32.23   Alteration, removal or demolition of a designated historic site
   
32.24   Certificate of appropriateness; procedure; criteria
   
32.25   Unsafe or dangerous conditions exempted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
administration and disposition of unclaimed property, which is in the
possession of or under the control of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.010)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Town Clerk/Treasurer of the Town of Haxtun or
designee thereof.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Haxtun, Colorado.
      OWNER. A person or entity, including a corporation, partnership,
association, governmental entity other than the municipality, or a duly
authorized legal representative or successor in interest of same, which owns
unclaimed property held by the municipality.
      UNCLAIMED PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible property, including any
income or increment derived therefrom, less any lawful charges, that is held by
or under the control of the municipality and which has not been claimed by its
owner for a period of more than five years after it became payable or
distributable.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.020)
   (C)   Procedure for disposition of property.
      (1)   Prior to disposition of any unclaimed property having an estimated
value of $50 or more, the Clerk/Treasurer shall send a written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address, if any, of
any owner of unclaimed property. The last known address of the owner shall be
the last address of the owner as shown by the records of the municipal
department or agency holding the property. The notice shall include a
description of the property, the amount or estimated value of the property and
when available, the purpose for which the property was deposited or otherwise
held. The notice shall state where the owner may make inquiry of or claim the
property. The notice shall also state that if the owner fails to provide the
Clerk/Treasurer with a written claim for the return of the property within 60
days of the date of the notice the property shall become the sole property of
the municipality and any claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed
forfeited.
      (2)   Prior to disposition of any unclaimed property having an estimated
value of less than $50 or having no last known address of the owner, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The notice shall include a description of the
property, the owner of the property, the amount or estimated value of the
property and, when available, the purpose for which the property was deposited
or otherwise held. The notice shall state where the owner may make inquiry of
or claim the property. The notice shall also state that if the property within
60 days of the date of the publication of the notice, the property shall become
the sole property of the municipality and any claim be deemed forfeited.
      (3)   If the Clerk/Treasurer receives no written claim within the above
60-day claim period, the property shall become the sole property of the
municipality and any claim of the owner to such property shall be deemed
forfeited.
      (4)   If the Clerk/Treasurer receives a written claim within the 60-day
claim period, the Clerk/Treasurer shall evaluate the claim and give written
notice to the claimant within 90 days thereof that the claim has been accepted
or denied in whole or in part. The Clerk/Treasurer may investigate the validity
of a claim and request further supporting documentation from the claimant prior
to disbursing or refusing to disburse the property.
      (5)   In the event that there is more than one claimant for the same
property, the Clerk/Treasurer may, in the Clerk/Treasurer’s sole discretion,
resolve said claims or may resolve such claims by depositing the disputed
property with the registry of the District Court in any interpleader action.
      (6)   In the event that all claims filed are denied, the property shall
become the sole property of the municipality and any claim of the owner of such
property shall be deemed forfeited.
      (7)   Any legal action filed challenging a decision of the Clerk/
Treasurer shall be filed pursuant to Rule 106 of the Colorado Rules of Civil
Procedures within 30 days of such decision or shall be forever barred. If any
legal action is timely filed, the property shall be disbursed by the Clerk/
Treasurer pursuant to the order of the Court having jurisdiction over such
claim.
      (8)   The Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to establish and administer
procedures for the administration and disposition of unclaimed property
consistent with this section, including compliance requirements for other
municipal officers and employee in the identification and disposition of such
property.
(Prior Code, § 2.48.030)
(Ord. 92-1, passed - -1992)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
§ 32.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and welfare through:
      (1)   The protection and preservation of the town’s historic and cultural
heritage by providing for the designation of historic buildings, landmarks,
sites and districts;
      (2)   The enhancement to quality of life through the maintenance of
designated historic sites;
      (3)   The protection and enhancement of the town’s economy through the
preservation of historical attractions for local residents, tourists and
visitors to the town; and
      (4)   The expansion of public awareness, appreciation and knowledge of
the town’s unique local history.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to create a reasonable balance between
private property rights and the public interest in preserving the town’s unique
historic character through the designation of buildings, structures, sites,
objects and districts for preservation.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation Advisory Board, see § 31.23
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the
exterior architectural features of a building or structure or one or more
physical features of a district or site.
   BOARD. The Historic Preservation Advisory Board.
   DISTRICT. A group or concentration of structures or properties that make a
coherent whole due to their similar historic significance, such as a
neighborhood.
   SITE. Any parcel of land, building, structure, improvement or district which
has historic significance to the town.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.17 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC SITES.
   (A)   In order to qualify for designation as an historic site, the site must
be determined to have historic significance due to one or more of the following
factors:
      (1)   Its character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the town, the county, the state or the
United States;
      (2)   Its location is a site of a significant historic event;
      (3)   Its identification with a person who significantly contributed to
the culture and development of the town, the county, the state or the United
States;
      (4)   Its exemplification of the cultural, economic, social or historic
heritage of the town, the county, the state or the United States;
      (5)   Its portrayal of the environment of a group of people in an era of
history characterized by a distinctive architectural style;
      (6)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or specimen;
      (7)   Its identification as the work of an architect or master builder
whose individual work has influenced the development of the town, the county,
the state or the United States;
      (8)   Its embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship that represent a significant architectural
innovation;
      (9)   Its relation to other distinctive areas that are eligible for
preservation according to a plan based on an historic, cultural or
architectural motif;
      (10)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristic represents
an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community or the
town; and
      (11)   Its potential to make important contributions to the understanding
and knowledge of the area’s history or pre-history.
   (B)   In addition, if the site seeking designation comprises a district, it
must be geographically definable.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.18 PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC SITES.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Applications for designation must be made to the Historic
Preservation Advisory Board.
      (2)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board may require that such an
application be made in such form as specified by the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board.
      (3)   Application shall be made only by the owners of 100% of the
historic site for which an application is submitted.
   (B)   Historic Preservation Advisory Board review.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall review the
application for conformance with the criteria for designation established in §
32.17.
      (2)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall consider the
application at a regularly scheduled or special meeting and shall forward its
recommendations to the Board of Trustees. Each such designation recommendation
shall include a description of the characteristics of the site which justifies
its designation and shall include a legal description of the location and
boundaries of the historic site. The designation recommendation may also
indicate alterations that would have a significant impact upon, or be
potentially detrimental to, the historic features of the site. Any such
designation shall be in furtherance of and in conformance with the purposes and
standards of this subchapter.
      (3)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall notify the Town
Superintendent within seven days of any decision approving or disapproving an
application.
   (C)   Board of Trustees action.
      (1)   Unless an application is withdrawn by the applicant within 60 days
of the date of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board’s decision, the Board
of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on the application.
      (2)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to the owner
no later than ten days prior to the public hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Trustees shall review the application for conformance
with the criteria for designation set forth in this code, and by shall by
resolution approve, modify and approve or disapprove the proposed designation.
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall advise the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board of its decision regarding the designation.
   (D)   Recordation. Within 30 days of designation approval by the Board of
Trustees, such designation will be recorded with the County Clerk and Recorder.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.19 LIMITATION ON RESUBMISSION AND RECONSIDERATION OF PROPOSED
DESIGNATIONS.
   Whenever the Historic Preservation Advisory Board or Board of Trustees
disapproves an application for designation of an historic site, no person shall
submit an application that is the same or substantially the same for at least
six months from the effective date of the final town action on the original
application.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.20 AMENDMENT OF DESIGNATION.
   Designation of a historic site may be amended to add features or property to
the site under the procedures prescribed in §
32.18 for initial designations.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.21 REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION.
   If a building or special feature on a designated site has changed or been
altered in such a way as to negate the features necessary to retain
designation, the owner may apply to the Historic Preservation Advisory Board
for a revocation of the designation, or the Historic Preservation Advisory
Board shall recommend revocation of the designation to the Board of Trustees in
the absence of the owner’s application to do so.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.22 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The town intends to preserve from deliberate or inadvertent neglect
the exterior portions of designated historic sites or districts and all
interior portions thereof whose maintenance is necessary to prevent
deterioration of any exterior portion. No owner, lessee or occupant of any
designated historic site or an owner within a district shall fail to prevent
significant deterioration of the exterior of the structure or special feature
beyond the condition of such property or such within a district.
   (B)   No owner, lessee or occupant of any historic site or property within a
district shall fail to comply with all applicable provisions of this subchapter
and other ordinances of the town regarding property maintenance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.23 ALTERATION, REMOVAL OR DEMOLITION OF A DESIGNATED HISTORIC SITE.
   No person shall carry out or permit to be carried out on a designated
historic site or property within a historic district any new construction,
alteration, removal or demolition of a building or other physical feature
without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness for the proposed work.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.24 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS; PROCEDURE; CRITERIA.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application. An owner of property designated as a historic site or
owner of property within a historic district may apply for a certificate of
appropriateness by filing an application with the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board that includes all information that the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board determines is necessary to consider the application, including
without limitation plans and specifications showing the proposed exterior
appearance, with texture, materials and architectural design and detail.
      (2)   Historic Preservation Advisory Board action.
         (a)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall review an
application for a certificate of appropriateness at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting within 45 days after the filing of the application.
         (b)   The Historic Preservation Advisory Board shall determine whether
the application meets the criteria set forth in division (B) below and shall
forward its written recommendations to the Board of Trustees no later than 30
days after the meeting unless otherwise agreed to by the Historic Preservation
Advisory Board and applicant.
         (c)   When reviewing a certificate of appropriateness, the Historic
Preservation Advisory Board may extend the review period up to 90 additional
days if the Historic Preservation Advisory Board finds the original application
does not meet the criteria set forth in division (B) below. The extension
period shall be used to encourage both the applicant and the Historic
Preservation Advisory Board to explore acceptable alternative solutions to the
original submission.
      (3)   Board of Trustees action.
         (a)   The Board of Trustees shall review an application for a
certificate of appropriateness at a public hearing within 45 days after receipt
of a decision of the Historic Preservation Advisory Board.
         (b)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to the
owner no later than ten days prior to the public hearing.
         (c)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the application
meets the criteria set forth in this code and shall by resolution approve,
modify and approve, or disapprove the proposed application for certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   Criteria for new construction or alteration.
         (a)   In determining whether to approve a certificate of
appropriateness for any proposed new construction on or alteration of a
designated historic site, the Historic Preservation Advisory Board and Board of
Trustees shall consider:
            1.   Whether the proposed work would detrimentally alter, destroy
or affect any architectural or landscape feature that contributes to the
original historic designation; and
            2.   Whether the proposed work is visually compatible with
designated historic structures located on the property in terms of designs,
finish, material, scale, mass and height.
         (b)   In determining compatibility, the following criteria shall be
considered:
            1.   The effect on the general historic and architectural character
of the structure and property;
            2.   The architectural style, arrangement, texture and material
used on the existing and proposed structures and their relation to and
compatibility with other structures;
            3.   The size of the structure, its setbacks, location and the
appropriateness thereof when compared to existing structures and the site;
            4.   The compatibility of accessory structures and fences with the
main structure on the site and other structures;
            5.   The effects of the proposed work in creating, changing,
destroying or otherwise impacting the exterior architectural features of the
structure upon which such work is done;
            6.   The condition of existing improvements and whether they are a
hazard to public health and safety;
            7.   The effects of the proposed work upon the protection,
enhancement, perpetuation and use of the property; and
            8.   Compliance with the United States Secretary of the Interior’s
“Standards For Rehabilitation”.
      (2)   Criteria for relocation. In addition to the criteria in division
(B)(1) above, the Historic Preservation Advisory Board and Board of Trustees
shall use the following criteria in considering an application for a
certificate of appropriateness for relocation of a designated historic site:
         (a)   Documentation showing the structure cannot be rehabilitated or
reused on its original site to provide for any reasonable beneficial use of the
property;
         (b)   The contribution the structure makes to its present setting;
         (c)   If the structure can be moved and re-sited without significant
damage to its physical integrity and the applicant can show the relocation
activity is the best preservation method for the character and integrity of the
structure;
         (d)   Whether a structural report submitted by a licensed structural
engineer adequately demonstrates the soundness of the structure proposed for
relocation;
         (e)   Whether the building or structure is compatible with its
proposed new site and adjacent properties; and if the receiving site is
compatible in nature with the structure or structures proposed to be moved;
         (f)   The structure’s architectural integrity and its consistency with
the character of the new neighborhood; and
         (g)   Whether the relocation of the structure would diminish the
integrity or character of the neighborhood of the receiving site.
      (3)   Criteria for total demolition. An applicant requesting a
certificate of appropriateness for total demolition shall provide data clearly
to demonstrate that the situation meets all of the following criteria.
         (a)   The structure proposed for demolition is not structurally sound
despite evidence of the owner’s efforts to properly maintain the structure.
         (b)   The structure cannot be rehabilitated or reused on site to
provide for any reasonable beneficial use of the property.
         (c)   The structure cannot be practically moved to another site in the
town.
         (d)   The applicant demonstrates that the proposal mitigates to the
greatest extent possible the following:
            1.   Any impacts that occur to the visual character of the
neighborhood where demolition is proposed to occur;
            2.   Any impact on the historic importance of the structure or
structures located on the property and adjacent properties; and
            3.   Any impact to the architectural integrity of the structure or
structures located on the property and adjacent properties.
      (4)   Criteria for partial demolition. An applicant requesting a
certificate of appropriateness for partial demolition shall provide data
clearly to demonstrate that the situation meets all of the following criteria.
         (a)   The partial demolition is required for the renovation,
restoration or rehabilitation of the structure.
         (b)   The applicant has mitigated, to the greatest extent possible,
and at the applicant’s own cost:
            1.   Impacts on the historic importance of the structure or
structures located on the property; and
            2.   Impacts on the architectural integrity of the structure or
structures located on the property.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
§ 32.25 UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS CONDITIONS EXEMPTED.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any measures of
construction, alteration, removal or demolition necessary to correct the unsafe
or dangerous condition of any structure, other feature or parts there of where
such condition is declared unsafe or dangerous by the town or the town’s
authorized Building Official and where proposed measures have been declared
necessary by the town to correct condition, as long as such work that is
absolutely necessary to correct the condition is performed. Any temporary
measures may be taken without first obtaining a certificate of appropriateness
under this chapter, but a certificate is required for permanent construction,
alteration, removal or demolition.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed - -2024)
 
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Sales and Use Tax, Generally
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Sales and use tax revenues; allocation
   
33.03   Amendments
Sales Tax
   
33.15   Purpose; uniformity of interpretation
   
33.16   Property and services taxed; tax rate
   
33.17   Non-applicability; exemptions
   
33.18   Administration; collection and enforcement of town sales tax; licenses
required
   
33.19   Sales tax general provisions
Use Tax
   
33.30   Purpose
   
33.31   Property and services taxed; tax rate
   
33.32   Non-applicability; exemptions
   
33.33   Administration, collection and enforcement of town use tax
SALES AND USE TAX, GENERALLY
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter and §§
33.15 through
33.19 and 33.30 through 33.33 of this chapter, and except as otherwise provided
in this section, the definitions of terms used herein shall be as provided in
C.R.S. Title 29, Art. 2, part 1 and C.R.S. Title 39, Art. 26, and said
definitions are incorporated herein by this reference. All references in this
subchapter and §§
33.15 through
33.19 and 33.30 through 33.33 of this chapter to the Colorado Revised Statutes
or to the United States Code shall be to the same as from time to time amended.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Revenue of the State of Colorado.
   STATE SALES OR USE TAX. The sales or use tax imposed by the state pursuant
to C.R.S. Title 39, Art. 26.
   TOWN SALES TAX or TOWN USE TAX. The sales or use tax imposed by the town
pursuant to this subchapter and §§
33.15 through
33.19 and
33.30 through
33.33 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.010) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.02 SALES AND USE TAX REVENUES; ALLOCATION.
   (A)   The revenues generated by the ½% portion of the town sales tax imposed
by §
33.16 of this chapter, and by the ½% portion of the town use tax imposed by §
33.31 of this chapter, shall be used solely to fund and maintain the town’s
community center.
   (B)   The revenues generated by the 1% portion of the town sales tax imposed
by §
33.16 of this chapter, and by the 1% portion of the town use tax imposed by §
33.31 of this chapter, may be used for lawful town purposes as determined by
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The revenues generated by 1% of the town sales tax imposed by §
33.16 of this chapter, and by 1% of the town use tax imposed by §
33.31 of this chapter, shall be used to pay expenses related to the library,
swimming pool, summer recreation programs and any other lawful municipal
purpose as determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.020) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001; Ord.
2017-6, Series 2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 33.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The following amendments to this subchapter and §§
33.15 through
33.19 and 33.30 through 33.33 of this chapter shall not be made unless approved
by a majority of the registered electors of the town voting thereon at a
regular or special election:
      (1)   Any increase in the sales tax rate set forth in §
33.16 of this chapter, or the use tax rate set forth in §
33.31 of this chapter;
      (2)   Any other amendment to this subchapter and §§
33.15 through
33.19 and
33.30 through
33.33 of this chapter which constitutes a tax policy change directly causing a
net revenue gain to the town; or
      (3)   Any change in the allocation of revenues as described in §
33.02(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by division (A) above, the Board of
Trustees may make any amendment, alteration or deletion to this subchapter and
§§
33.15 through
33.19 and
33.30 through
33.33 of this chapter, without submitting the question of the same to the
registered electors.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.030) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
SALES TAX
§ 33.15 PURPOSE; UNIFORMITY OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a town sales tax on retail
sales of tangible personal property in the town, and upon the furnishing of
certain services in the town, as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be construed and interpreted as to effectuate
the general purpose of making it uniform, insofar as required by law, with the
state sales tax.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.040) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.16 PROPERTY AND SERVICES TAXED; TAX RATE.
   (A)   There is levied and there shall be collected and paid a town sales tax
equal to 3½%, upon the sale at retail of tangible personal property and the
furnishing of certain services, as provided in C.R.S. § 29-2-105(1)(d).
   (B)   The tangible personal property and services taxable under this
subchapter shall be the same as the tangible personal property and services
taxable pursuant to C.R.S. § 39-26-104, and subject to the same exemptions as
those specified in C.R.S. § 39-26-114; except that, as provided in C.R.S. § 29-
2-105(1), the exemptions from the state sales tax listed in C.R.S. § 29-2-105
(1) shall not apply to the town sales tax except to the extent §
33.17 of this chapter specifically provides, or is hereafter amended to
provide, for the express inclusion of one or more of such exemptions.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.050) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001; Ord.
2017-6, Series 2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 33.17 NON-APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The town sales tax shall not apply to:
      (1)   The sale of construction and building materials, as the term is
used in C.R.S. § 29-2-109, if such materials are picked up by the purchaser and
if the purchaser of such materials presents to the retailer a building permit
or other documentation acceptable to the town evidencing that a local use tax
has been paid or is required to be paid;
      (2)   The sale of food purchased with food stamps. For purposes of this
division (A)(2), food shall have the same meaning as provided in 7 U.S.C. §
2012(g);
      (3)   The sale of food purchased with funds provided by the special
supplemental food program for women, infants and children pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
§ 1786. For purposes of this division (A)(3), food shall have the same meaning
as provided in 42 U.S.C. § 1786; or
      (4)   The sale of tangible personal property at retail, or to the
furnishing of services, if the transaction was previously subjected to a sales
or use tax lawfully imposed on the purchaser by another statutory or home rule
municipality at a rate equal to or in excess of the rate established by §
33.16(A) of this chapter. A credit shall be granted with respect to such
transaction equal in amount to the lawfully imposed sales or use tax previously
paid by the purchaser to the previous statutory or home rule municipality. The
amount of the credit shall not exceed the rate established by §
33.16(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   The value of construction and building materials on which a use tax
has previously been collected by an incorporated town, city or county shall be
exempt from the sales tax if the materials are delivered by the retailer or the
retailer’s agent to a site within the limits of such town, city or county.
   (C)   All sales of tangible personal property on which a specific ownership
tax has been paid or is payable shall be exempt from the sales tax when such
sales meet both the following conditions:
      (1)   The purchaser is a nonresident of or has his or her principal place
of business outside the limits of the town; and
      (2)   Such property is registered or required to be registered outside
the limits of the town under the Colorado Revised Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.060) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.18 ADMINISTRATION; COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF TOWN SALES TAX; LICENSES
REQUIRED.
   (A)   The collection, administration and enforcement of the town sales tax
shall be performed by the Executive Director of the Department in the same
manner as the collection, administration and enforcement of the state sales
tax. The provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Art. 21 and Art. 26 and C.R.S. Title
29, Art. 2, part 1, and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the
Executive Director, shall govern the collection, administration and enforcement
of the town sales tax.
   (B)   Every licensed retailer required to collect and remit amounts in
payment of the town sales tax as required by this subchapter shall be entitled
to subtract and keep, from the amount so remitted, a sum equal to 3% of the
total amount collected. Said sum shall constitute the vendor’s fee for serving
as the collection agent for the town sales tax. However, no retailer who is
delinquent in making any remittances shall be entitled to keep any vendor’s
fee, unless the retailer establishes good cause for the delinquency, and any
retailer who wrongfully keeps a vendor’s fee shall be liable for the repayment
of such fee to the town.
   (C)   No person shall engage in the business of selling at retail in the
town without first having obtained a license therefore from the Department of
Revenue, together with all other licenses, permits and authorizations as may be
required by this code or by other applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.070) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.19 SALES TAX GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town sales tax on individual sales shall be in accordance with
schedules promulgated by the State Department of Revenue. If any vendor, during
any reporting period, collects as a town sales tax an amount in excess of that
imposed by this subchapter, the vendor shall remit to the Director of Revenue
the full amount of the tax herein imposed and also such excess.
   (B)   All retail sales shall be considered consummated at the place of
business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or the retailer’s agent to a destination outside the
limits of the town, or to a common carrier for delivery to a destination
outside the town.
   (C)   The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.
   (D)   If a retailer has no permanent place of business within the town, or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated for the purposes of this subchapter shall be determined
by the provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Art. 26, and by the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder by the Department.
   (E)   The amount subject to the town sales tax shall not include the amount
of any state sales or use tax.
   (F)   In the event that the county passes a resolution which imposes a
county-wide sales tax in the amount of 1½% or greater, and which provides for
distribution to the town of all county-wide sales tax revenues collected in the
town, and such resolution is approved by the registered electors of the county,
then the town sales tax shall terminate at the time the county-wide sales tax
becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.080) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
USE TAX
§ 33.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a town use tax on the storage,
use or consumption in the town of certain tangible personal property as
specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.090) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.31 PROPERTY AND SERVICES TAXED; TAX RATE.
   There is levied and there shall be collected and paid a town use tax equal
to 2½% and 3½%, upon the privilege of:
   (A)   Using or consuming in the town any construction and building materials
purchased at retail; and
   (B)   Storing, using or consuming in the town any motor and other vehicles
purchased at retail on which registration is required.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.100) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-200;1 Ord.
2017-6, Series 2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 33.32 NON-APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS.
   The town use tax shall not apply to:
   (A)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property the
sale of which is subject to a retail sales tax imposed by the town;
   (B)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property
purchased for resale in the town, either in its original form or as an
ingredient of a manufactured or compounded product, in the regular course of a
business;
   (C)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property brought
into the town by a nonresident thereof for the nonresident’s own storage, use
or consumption while temporarily within the town; however, this exemption does
not apply to the storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property
brought into this state by a nonresident to be used in the conduct of a
business in this state;
   (D)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by the
United States government, or the state, or its institutions, or its political
subdivisions in their governmental capacities only or by religious or
charitable corporations in the conduct of their regular religious or charitable
functions;
   (E)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by a
person engaged in the business of manufacturing or compounding for sale, profit
or use any article, substance or commodity, which tangible personal property
enters into the processing of or becomes an ingredient or component part of the
product or service which is manufactured, compounded or furnished and the
container, label or the furnished shipping case thereof;
   (F)   The storage, use or consumption of any article of tangible personal
property the sale or use of which has already been subjected to a legally
imposed sales or use tax of another statutory or home rule municipality equal
to or in excess of that imposed by this subchapter. A credit shall be granted
against the use tax imposed by this subchapter with respect to a person’s
storage, use or consumption in the town of tangible personal property purchased
by the person in a previous statutory or home rule municipality. The amount of
the credit shall be equal to the tax paid by the person by reason of the
imposition of a sales or use tax of the previous statutory or home rule
municipality on the person’s purchase or use of the property. The amount of the
credit shall not exceed the tax imposed by this subchapter;
   (G)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property and
household effects acquired outside of the town, and brought into it by a
nonresident acquiring residency;
   (H)   The storage or use of a motor vehicle if the owner is or was, at the
time of purchase, a nonresident of the town, and the owner purchased the
vehicle outside of the town for use outside the town and actually so used it
for a substantial and primary purpose for which it was acquired and the person
registered, titled and licensed said motor vehicle outside of the town;
   (I)   The storage, use or consumption of any construction and building
materials and motor and other vehicles on which registration is required if a
written contract for the purchase thereof was entered into prior to the
effective date of the town use tax;
   (J)   The storage, use or consumption of any construction and building
materials required or made necessary in the performance of any construction
contract bid, let or entered into at any time prior to the effective date of
the town use tax;
   (K)   The use or consumption of taxable tangible personal property within
the town that occurs more than three years after the most recent sale of the
property if within the three years following such sale, the property has been
significantly used within the state for the principal purpose for which it was
purchased; or
   (L)   The storage of construction and building materials.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.110) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.33 ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF TOWN USE TAX.
   (A)   The town use tax on motor and other vehicles imposed by this
subchapter shall be collected by the authorized agent of the Department of
Revenue, and the town is authorized to enter into such agreements as may be
necessary or desirable to effectuate the same.
   (B)   No registration shall be made of any motor or other vehicle for which
registration is required, and no certificate of title shall be issued for such
vehicle by the Department of Revenue or its authorized agents, until the taxes
due upon the storage, use or consumption of such vehicle has been paid.
   (C)   The proceeds of the use tax on motor and other vehicles imposed by
this subchapter shall be paid to the town periodically in accordance with the
agreements referred to in division (A) above.
   (D)   The town use tax on construction and building materials shall be
collected and administered by the town through such representatives as
authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Board may establish, by resolution,
such procedures as may be necessary or desirable to facilitate such collection
and administration.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.120) (Ord. 3.08.010, Series 2001, passed 8-21-2001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
      
55.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Contract; termination regulations
   
50.02   Rules and regulations generally
   
50.03   Superintendent of waterworks
   
50.04   Water rates
   
50.05   Yard sprinkler use prohibited during fire alarm
   
50.06   Rates based on consumption
   
50.07   Contractors and builders
   
50.08   Street; watering periods
   
50.09   Water taps; prohibition and charge; authority and town duties
   
50.10   Plumber’s permit and bond; return and refund
   
50.11   Tapping or connecting to water main requirements
   
50.12   Test pipe
   
50.13   Turning off water; requirements
   
50.14   Service pipes; flushing and meter installation; laying
   
50.15   Corporation cock
   
50.16   Stop cock
   
50.17   Curb cock
   
50.18   One house per tap; exception
   
50.19   Pipe inspection before covering
   
50.20   Barricading
   
50.21   Stop and waste cock
   
50.22   Authority to access from pipeline to meter to main; water wastage
notice; shut off
   
50.23   Suspension authority of use for fountains or sprinkling
   
50.24   Upkeep of water apparatus required
   
50.25   Water service outside town limits
   
50.26   Upkeep of service pipes and other apparatus required
   
50.27   Right reserved to cut off water supply
   
50.28   Unauthorized use of fire hydrants prohibited
Water Meters
   
50.45   Meters required
   
50.46   Testing
   
50.47   Relocation order
   
50.48   Permission required for relocation
   
50.49   Repair required; authority to shut off water
   
50.50   Charge any water passing through meter
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 CONTRACT; TERMINATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The rules, regulations and water rates set out in this chapter shall
be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or corporation
which is supplied water through the water system of the town and every such
person, company or corporation by taking water shall be considered to express
his or her assent to be bound thereby and whenever any water rule or regulation
enacted by this chapter or hereinafter enacted by the town is violated, the
Superintendent of Waterworks is empowered to terminate the supply of water from
the property where the violation occurs; provided, the customer is given an
opportunity to review the nature of the violation with the Superintendent of
Waterworks prior to termination.
   (B)   If two or more parties receive a supply of water through the same
service pipe, a termination of service may still occur.
   (C)   Any charge for termination of service shall be charged to the property
as a bill for water used.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.010) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913; Ord. 82-8, passed - -1982)
§ 50.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The rules and regulations set out in this chapter for the government of
consumers, and any persons who may be legally authorized to put in waterworks
attachments, are adopted and established.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.020) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.03 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Superintendent of Waterworks who shall
have general supervision of the waterworks, of all repairs and improvements
made on same and of the enforcement of all rules and regulations governing the
waterworks service.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.030) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.04 WATER RATES.
   Monthly rates and charges are established by resolution of the Board of
Trustees and the Board of Trustees, by resolution, may increase or reduce the
rates or change the charges when it determines that the scheduled charge is
inequitable or improper.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.040) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913; Ord. 52, passed - -1917;
Ord. 186, passed - -1962; Ord. 203, passed - -1969; Ord. 74-2, passed - -1974;
Ord. 78-20, passed - -1978; Ord. 81-2, passed - -1981; Ord. 94-1, passed - -
1994)
§ 50.05 YARD SPRINKLER USE PROHIBITED DURING FIRE ALARM.
   During all alarms of fire and while the fire pressure is on the main, the
use of any hose or any yard or street sprinkler is positively prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.380) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 RATES BASED ON CONSUMPTION.
   The rates set out in this chapter shall be based on monthly consumption
through one meter, and no combinations or readings from separate meters will be
allowed.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.060) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.07 CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS.
   (A)   Contractors, builders and others desiring water for building purposes,
must make application to the Superintendent of the Waterworks therefor, who
will issue a permit.
   (B)   The amount paid therefor shall be based on the rate set out in this
chapter, or on any rate decided by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.070) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.08 STREET; WATERING PERIODS.
   Watering periods are from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. East and north sides of
streets and avenues shall be watered on even days (i.e., Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays) and west and south sides of streets and avenues shall be watered
on odd days (i.e., Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays) and that position of water
tap shall determine the time of watering.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.080) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913; Ord. 52, passed - -1917;
Ord. 186, passed - -1962)
§ 50.09 WATER TAPS; PROHIBITION AND CHARGE; AUTHORITY AND TOWN DUTIES.
   (A)   No water taps shall be made by anyone other than the town, and there
shall be a charge established by resolution of the Board of Trustees, and the
Board of Trustees, by resolution, may increase or reduce the rates or change
the charges when it determines that the scheduled charge is inequitable or
improper.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.090)
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent of Waterworks shall have charge of tapping
the water mains and he or she shall have charge of and be responsible for the
tapping machine and all supplies used in and about the waterworks system
purchased by the town.
      (2)   The town will furnish all pipe and appurtenances required in
tapping the water mains and water meters, and bring the pipe to the outside
line of the sidewalk, for the sum of $30 for each tap, which includes the price
of the meter.
      (3)   The water connection will be made by the town upon application by
the water consumers in the order of the applications.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.100)
(Ord. 43, passed - -1913; Ord. 58, passed - -1918; Ord. 186, passed - -1962;
Ord. 94-1, passed - -1994)
§ 50.10 PLUMBER’S PERMIT AND BOND; RETURN AND REFUND.
   (A)   Every plumber shall, before making any connections with any main or
doing any work on any service pipes connected therewith, give to the town a
bond in the penal sum of $500, with good and sufficient surety, conditioned,
that he or she will in all things well and truly comply with all the rules and
regulations of the town for the government of plumbers.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.110)
   (B)   (1)   Within two days after the completion of any connections to the
main, returns shall be made upon the blanks as provided for the purpose.
      (2)   In case any permit remains unreturned for 30 days after the issue,
then the Superintendent shall refuse to grant any further permits to the town
plumber until the proper returns have been made.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.120) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.11 TAPPING OR CONNECTING TO WATER MAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, except the plumbers having special permits from the
Superintendent, Board of Trustees or person in their service and approved by
them, will be permitted, under any circumstances to tap the water main, and the
kind and the size of the connections with the mains shall be specified in the
permits.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.130) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.12 TEST PIPE.
   Only plumbers and other approved persons shall admit water to test pipes and
shall do so for that purpose only.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.140) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.13 TURNING OFF WATER; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any plumber shutting off water from any property, except for a few days’
repairs, shall report to the Superintendent in writing.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.150) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.14 SERVICE PIPES; FLUSHING AND METER INSTALLATION; LAYING.
   (A)   Service pipes must be thoroughly flushed before meters are attached
and space left and prepared in an approved location for the attachments of
meter and connections.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.160)
   (B)   All service pipes must be laid at least four feet deep.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.170)
(Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.15 CORPORATION COCK.
   A corporation cock shall be inserted in every tap on the water mains. The
corporation cap shall be of a standard make and of pattern and weight approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.180) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.16 STOP COCK.
   There shall be a stop cock in every service connection to the main, lateral
or extensions service, supply, in streets, within the parking near the curbline
and in alleys within one foot of the alley line.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.190) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.17 CURB COCK.
   The curb cock shall be covered by a three-inch extension stop box of a
standard pattern, extending to or lightly above grade and provided with a
tight-fitting iron cover with the word “water” or the letter “W” cast on the
cover.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.200) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.18 ONE HOUSE PER TAP; EXCEPTION.
   Not more than one house shall be supplied from one tap, except by special
permission of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.220) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.19 PIPE INSPECTION BEFORE COVERING.
   Before any pipe is covered, it shall be subject to inspection by Water
Superintendent or inspector, from the main to the meter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.280) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 BARRICADING.
   (A)   No person shall leave any excavation made in the street or the highway
open at any time without barricading, and during the night time lights must be
maintained at such excavations.
   (B)   In making repairs, the sidewalks, the paving or bricks and earth
removed, must be deposited in such a manner that it will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for the passage of water along the
gutters.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.290) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 STOP AND WASTE COCK.
   There shall be a stop and waste cock of standard make and pattern and
weight, approved by the Board of Trustees of the town, attached to every
service pipe at the point where it enters the building, inside the same, so as
to admit of the water being shut off in freezing weather and the pipe and meter
drained.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.300) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.22 AUTHORITY TO ACCESS FROM PIPELINE TO METER TO MAIN; WATER WASTAGE
NOTICE; SHUT OFF.
   The town shall at all times be regarded and considered in possession of
service pipes from the main to the water and the Superintendent of the
Waterworks and such person or persons as may be directed by him or her shall
have authority to enter and have full access to the pipeline from the meter to
the main for the purpose of examining the same and, in case he or she finds
that water is wasting on account of negligence or for the want of repair, he or
she shall leave notice thereof and if such waste is not remedied within 24
hours thereafter, the water shall be turned off and shall not be turned on.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.310) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.23 SUSPENSION AUTHORITY OF USE FOR FOUNTAINS OR SPRINKLING.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of the fountains and hose for
sprinkling streets, lawns, yards or gardens, whenever, in the opinion of the
Superintendent of Waterworks or Board of Trustees, the public exigency requires
it.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.320) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.24 UPKEEP OF WATER APPARATUS REQUIRED.
   All persons using water shall keep the hydrant, tap, hose, water closets,
urinals, baths or other fixtures in good repair, and shall be responsible for
any damage or injury resulting to others from the improper use or waste of
water.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.330) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 WATER SERVICE OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS.
   The town may provide water service to property outside the town limits
subject to the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   An applicant requesting water service outside the town limits shall
enter into a water service contract with the town.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant requesting water service to any area where town
distribution and transmission facilities do not exist must pay the full costs
of extending utility lines to serve his or her property, including any costs
for appurtenant facilities such as storage and pumping stations.
      (2)   Upon completion of the work and written acceptance by the town, the
water distribution system will become the property of the town.
      (3)   The applicant is also responsible for obtaining and dedicating to
the town all easements required for the utility facilities.
   (C)   Rates for water service outside the town limits shall be two times the
rate for water service inside the town limits.
   (D)   (1)   Applicants for outside water service shall apply to the town for
a water tap and shall pay a water tap fee to the town in an amount established
by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the town will be responsible
for tapping the water main, running the service line from the water main to the
meter pit or curb stop and installing the meter pit and curb stop valve.
      (3)   The service line from the meter pit or curb stop to the structure
to be served shall be installed by the water user at his or her expense.
   (E)   A water meter is required for any building or residence with a service
line larger than three-quarters of an inch.
   (F)   Requests for commercial, industrial and non-residential water service
are subject to approval by the Board of Trustees on a case-by-case basis.
   (G)   Use of water outside the limits of the town shall be subject to the
paramount rights of users within the town limits. If there is insufficient
water to provide for users both within and without the town limits, the town
may reduce, curtail or shut off the users outside the town limits during such
period of water shortage or scarcity.
   (H)   Water service outside of the town limits is limited to properties
within the perimeter of the following county roads: CR 3 west of town; CR 28
south of town; CR 7 east of town; and CR 32 north of town.
   (I)   The terms and conditions of this section shall not apply to any
customer who as of the effective date of this section is already receiving
water service from the town for a property located outside the town limits, but
they shall apply once the subject property is sold or otherwise transferred.
(Ord. 2020-6, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 50.26 UPKEEP OF SERVICE PIPES AND OTHER APPARATUS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons taking the water shall keep their own service pipes, stop
and waste cocks, and other apparatus, in good repair at their own risk and
expense, and prevent unnecessary waste.
   (B)   In case service pipes, stop cocks, stop boxes or any other apparatus
connected herewith, get out of order or the stop boxes which hereafter may
become covered up so they cannot be seen readily, then the Superintendent of
Waterworks is authorized to repair and place same in proper condition, and
charge the same to the property as a bill for water used, reporting same to the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.350) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.27 RIGHT RESERVED TO CUT OFF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   It is expressly stipulated that no claim shall be made against the
town by reason of the breaking of any service cock or if from any cause the
supply of water should fail or from damage arising from shutting off the water
to repair mains, make connections or extensions, or for any purpose that may be
deemed necessary.
   (B)   The right is reserved to cut off the supply of water at any time,
notwithstanding any permit to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.360) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.28 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   No firefighter or other person, except for the legitimate purpose of
extinguishing fire or upon drill, shall open any fire hydrant or stop connected
with the fire drill service without the consent of the Superintendent of the
Waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.370) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913) Penalty, see §
50.99
WATER METERS
§ 50.45 METERS REQUIRED.
   A water meter, the property of the consumers, shall be attached to every
service pipe and placed in a position at the expense of the property owner, by
any qualified plumber working under the direction of the Superintendent of the
Waterworks, which meter shall be furnished the water consumer by the town at
actual cost.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.220) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.46 TESTING.
   When meters are attached to service pipes at least ten cubic feet of water
shall be run through the meter in order to ascertain if the same is in working
order and the readings as shown thereafter appear on the returns.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.230) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.47 RELOCATION ORDER.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the Waterworks may order the relocation of any
meter which is not now located in a proper, handy and accessible place, and
shut off the water in case of failure to relocate the same within ten days as
directed by the Superintendent of the Waterworks.
   (B)   All meters shall be so placed that they shall be easily accessible at
all times to meter readers and care must be taken not to cover them with wood,
coal or any material whatever.
   (C)   If, however, they should be inaccessible, or covered, then the
Superintendent of Waterworks may order the water turned off at the expense of
the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.240) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.48 PERMISSION REQUIRED FOR RELOCATION.
   The location of the water meter, owned by the consumer, shall not be changed
without permission of the Superintendent in writing.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.250) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.49 REPAIR REQUIRED; AUTHORITY TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   If any meter becomes out of repair or fails to work properly in the opinion
of the Superintendent of the Waterworks, then the Superintendent shall notify
the consumers to repair the same and, if the consumer fails to have such
repairs made within a reasonable time, then the Superintendent may cut off the
supply of water until such repairs are made and, for the time that such meter
has been out of repairs, the consumers shall pay the average of the last
reading of such meter before becoming out of repair.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.260) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.50 CHARGE ANY WATER PASSING THROUGH METER.
   All water passing through the meter will be charged for whether it is used
or not.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.270) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who does or performs any act or thing prohibited by this chapter
or otherwise than in accordance with its provisions, or violates any or either
of the rules or regulations, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction therefor, in addition to the enforcement of the forfeitures,
liabilities, stipulations and reservations, shall be fined in the sum of not
more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.390) (Ord. 43, passed - -1913)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Wastewater Activity Enterprise
   
51.01   Declaration and creation
   
51.02   Governing board
   
51.03   Powers
   
51.04   Assets
   
51.05   Enterprise Fund
   
51.06   Ratification and approval of prior actions
Conditions and Regulations
   
51.20   Sewer charge
   
51.21   Sewer taps
   
51.22   Charges for outside properties
   
51.23   Method of collection
   
51.24   Reconnecting own system after town’s disconnection prohibited
   
51.25   Repair/retap sewer lines and taps
   
51.26   Barricading
   
51.27   Backflow apparatus and clean out
   
51.28   Sewers connection
   
51.29   Unlawful discharge of pollutants
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WASTEWATER ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE
§ 51.01 DECLARATION AND CREATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees finds and determines that it will provide
wastewater facilities and services by means of the town’s wastewater activity
enterprise in conformity with all applicable state laws.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees further:
      (1)   Recognizes and confirms that the Enterprise is an “enterprise”
within the meaning of the TABOR; and
      (2)   Declares its intent that the Enterprise be operated and maintained
so as to exclude its activities from the application of TABOR.
   (C)   Therefore, the Board of Trustees creates the “Town of Haxtun,
Colorado, Wastewater Activity Enterprise”. The Board of Trustees shall take all
actions on behalf of the Enterprise as hereinafter further provided.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
§ 51.02 GOVERNING BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town shall constitute the governing board
of the Enterprise (the “governing board”).
   (B)   The governing board shall conduct the business of the Enterprise in
the same manner and follow the same procedures as the Board of Trustees of the
town.
   (C)   All official business of the Enterprise shall be conducted at
regularly scheduled or special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The record of the proceedings of the governing board may be
incorporated in the minutes of the Board of Trustees and shall not be required
to be recorded separately.
   (E)   No additional oath of office, qualification or procedure shall apply
with respect to service as a member of the governing board.
   (F)   All business and actions of the governing board shall be governed by
and made subject to all requirements, privileges, immunities, protections,
limitations and other provisions of law.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
§ 51.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Enterprise shall exercise the powers of an enterprise under TABOR,
including, without limitation, the power to issue or reissue bonds, notes or
other obligations, payable from the revenues derived or to be derived from its
provision of services.
   (B)   The Enterprise shall also be entitled to exercise such powers as are
set forth in any applicable state law, including the power to set rates, fees
and charges for services provided by the Enterprise; provided, however, in no
event shall the Enterprise have the authority to levy or collect taxes, whether
sales taxes, use taxes or ad valorem taxes, nor shall the Enterprise have the
power to direct the town to exercise its taxing power on behalf of the
Enterprise.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
§ 51.04 ASSETS.
   (A)   Assets to be operated and maintained by the Enterprise shall either
remain in the ownership of the town or be owned by the Enterprise, as the Board
of Trustees determines.
   (B)   The town assigns the use and management of all assets owned by the
town, whether real or personal, to the Enterprise.
   (C)   The Enterprise shall hold title to assets it owns in the name of the
“Town of Haxtun, Colorado acting by and through its Wastewater Activity
Enterprise”.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
§ 51.05 ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (A)   An Enterprise Fund shall be established to separately account for all
revenues and expenditure incurred by the Enterprise.
   (B)   The Enterprise shall prepare an annual budget which may be included in
the budget prepared for the town.
   (C)   All budgets, reports, audits and financial operations of the
Enterprise shall conform to and be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles applicable to governmental units and other
requirements of law.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
§ 51.06 RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF PRIOR ACTIONS.
   All actions heretofore taken by the Mayor, any member of the Board of
Trustees, officers and employees of the town, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter, relating to the Enterprise, or actions to be
taken in respect thereof, are ratified, approved and confirmed.
(Ord. 4-2006, Series 2006, passed 11-30-2006)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 SEWER CHARGE.
   The charges for the use of the town’s sewer system shall be as established
from time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees, and the Board of
Trustees, by resolution, may increase or reduce the rates or change the charges
when it determines that the scheduled charge is inequitable or improper.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.010) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962; Ord. 204, passed - -1969;
Ord. 72-1, passed - -1972; Ord. 74-3, passed - -1974; Ord. 78-30, passed - -
1978; Ord. 79-1, passed - -1979; Ord. 81-1, passed - -1981; Ord. 94-1, passed -
-1994; Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 51.21 SEWER TAPS.
   No sewer taps shall be made by anyone other than the town, and there shall
be a charge established by resolution of the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Trustees, by resolution, may increase or reduce the rates or change the charges
when it determines that the scheduled charge is inequitable or improper.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.020) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962; Ord. 94-1, passed - -1994)
§ 51.22 CHARGES FOR OUTSIDE PROPERTIES.
   The rates to be charged for use of the sewer system by properties situated
outside the boundaries of the town shall be established by resolution of the
Board of Trustees and the Board of Trustees, by resolution, may increase or
reduce the rates or change the charges when it determines that the scheduled
charge is inequitable or improper.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.030) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962; Ord. 94-1, passed - -1994)
§ 51.23 METHOD OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All sewer rental charges shall be added to and made a part of
the monthly water rental bill and shall be paid in the same manner and shall be
subject to the same rules and regulations as provided for payment of other
water bills.
      (2)   The sewer rental charges shall also constitute a lien upon any
lots, land, building or premises served and, in the event the charges shall not
be paid when due, the service may be discontinued by the town by shutting off
the water supply from the premises; or the Town Clerk/Treasurer may certify the
charge or charges to the County Treasurer to be placed by him or her upon the
tax list for the current year to be collected in the manner as other taxes are
collected with 10% added thereto, to defray the cost of collection, and all
laws of the state for the assessment and collection of general taxes, including
the laws for the sale of property for taxes and redemption of the same shall
apply.
   (B)   Prior to termination of service provided, the customer shall be
provided notice and an opportunity to dispute the charges to the Superintendent
or such person’s designee.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.040) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962; Ord. 82-5, passed - -1982)
§ 51.24 RECONNECTING OWN SYSTEM AFTER TOWN’S DISCONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful, after sewer service has been discontinued by shutting off
the water supply or in any other manner, for the person to reconnect the same
without the consent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.050) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 REPAIR/RETAP SEWER LINES AND TAPS.
   (A)   When it is deemed necessary to replace or repair a tap off of the main
sewer line, the following procedures will be followed: the owner of the tap
will notify the town that a sewer tap needs replaced or repaired.
   (B)   Responsibilities of the property owner are as follows:
      (1)   Notification - Utility Notification Center of Colorado;
      (2)   Procuring digging equipment and personnel to complete the project
will be done with the Town Superintendent or designee’s approval;
      (3)   If a tap needs replaced, the town will replace or repair the tap at
the property owner’s expense;
      (4)   If ditch is to be covered by cement or asphalt, the ditch will be
replaced with fill gravel, to minimize settling. If not covered by asphalt or
cement, the original fill may be replaced, but must be compacted to the
satisfaction of the Town Superintendent or designee. This work will be done at
the property owner’s expense;
      (5)   Curb and gutter, cement or asphalt replacement will be at the
property owner’s expense. This work will be completed within 30 days of project
start date; and
      (6)   Backfill, cement and asphalt replacement will be completed to the
satisfaction of the Town Superintendent or designee.
(Ord. 13.08, Series 2003, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 51.26 BARRICADING.
   (A)   No person shall leave any excavation made within the town at any time
without barricading.
   (B)   In making repairs, all debris, cement, asphalt and the like must be
deposited in such a manner that it will cause the least inconvenience to the
public and provide no hazards to the sewer system.
(Ord. 13.08, Series 2003, passed 5-5-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 BACKFLOW APPARATUS AND CLEAN OUT.
   All backflow apparatus and cleanouts installed by the property owner will be
located on the owner’s property.
(Ord. 13.08, Series 2003, passed 5-5-2003) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.28 SEWERS CONNECTION.
   Sewer connection, apparatus, taps and the like will be installed in
accordance with the latest edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code of the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
(Ord. 13.08, Series 2003, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 51.29 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the introduction of any one or
more of the following pollutants into the town’s sewer system from any source
of non-domestic discharge:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the town’s sewer
system, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 60°C (140°F) using the test methods specified in 40
C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (B)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the town’s
sewer system, but in no case discharges with a pH of lower than 5.0 standard
units unless the treatment facilities are specifically designed to accommodate
such discharges;
   (C)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to
the flow in the town’s sewer system, or otherwise interfere with the sewer
system’s operation;
   (D)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (e.g., BODs),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with any treatment process of town treatment
facilities;
   (E)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the town’s
sewer system resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities
that the temperature at the town’s treatment facilities exceeds 40°C (104°F)
unless the state’s Department of Public Health and Environment, upon request of
the town, approves alternative temperature limits;
   (F)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (G)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the town’s sewer system in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the town; and/or
   (I)   Any other pollutant which may cause pass through or interference.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-4-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13.08.050) (Ord. 187, passed - -1962)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   Building plans
   
52.02   Backflow prevention assemblies; standards; approval
   
52.03   Installation compliance
   
52.04   Testing and maintenance
   
52.05   Right of entry
   
52.06   Violations
§ 52.01 BUILDING PLANS.
   (A)   All building plans must be submitted to the town and approved, prior
to the issuance of water service.
   (B)   Building plans must show:
      (1)   Water service type, size and location;
      (2)   Meter size and location;
      (3)   Backflow prevention assembly size, type and location;
      (4)   Fire sprinkling system(s) service line, size and type of backflow
prevention assembly if applicable;
      (5)   Backflow prevention assembles are to be installed in an accessible
location to facilitate maintenance, testing and repair. Drawings must show
various installations;
      (6)   All backflow prevention assembles shall be installed immediately
downstream of the water meter;
      (7)   Before installing a backflow prevention assembly, pipelines should
be thoroughly flushed to remove foreign materials;
      (8)   In no case will it be permissible to have connections or tees
between the meter and service line backflow prevention assembly;
      (9)   Backflow prevention valves are not to be used as the inlet or out
valve of the water meter. Test cocks are not to be used as supply connections
(not applied to residential dual check installations);
      (10)   In order to ensure that backflow prevention assembles continue to
operate satisfactorily, it will be necessary that they be tested at the time of
installation and on an annual schedule thereafter. Such test will be conducted
in accordance with ASSE and/or USC-CCC & HR performance standards and field
test procedures as directed by the state’s Department of Public Health and
Environment (not applied to residential dual check installations; dual checks
will be tested at intervals set by the Board);
      (11)   The town will require inspection of all containment installations;
      (12)   All costs for design, installation, maintenance, repair and
testing are to be borne by the customer;
      (13)   No grandfather clause exists. All laws and regulations apply
regardless of the age of the facility;
      (14)   All fire sprinkling lines shall have a minimum protection of an
approved double check valve for containment of the system;
      (15)   All glycol (ethylene or propylene) or antifreeze systems shall
have an approved reduced pressure zone assembly for containment;
      (16)   Dry fire systems shall have an approved double check valve
installed upstream of the air pressure valve;
      (17)   Single-family residence with a fire sprinkler system and domestic
water combined shall have a double check valve when no chemicals are used; and
      (18)   All fire sprinkler systems shall conform to the following sections
of the National Fire Protection Association Standard 13 and 25.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 52.02 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES; STANDARDS; APPROVALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be of a
model and size approved by the town.
      (2)   The term APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean an
assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the latest version of the state’s Department of Public Health
and Environment Cross-Connection Control Manual and by the town.
      (3)   Final approval shall be evidence by a certificate of approval
issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with State
Department of Public Health and Environment standards and ASSE or USC-FCCC and
HR specifications.
   (B)   Only approved backflow prevention assembles shall be used.
      (1)   The following testing laboratories are qualified to test and
certify backflow prevention assembles and being listed on their periodic
approved list shall meet all of the above requirements:
         (a)   American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE), 901 Canterbury,
Suite A, Westlake, OH 44145; and
         (b)   USC Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research, University of Southern California, KAP-200 University Park MC-2531,
Los Angeles, CA 90089-2531. Exception: Residential containment may be
accomplished with an assembly not approved by the Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, but approved by the American Society
of Sanitary and Mechanical Engineers and designated by the town.
      (2)   Backflow preventers currently installed which are not approved
shall be replaced with an approved assembly at the time they fail an
operational test.
      (3)   Backflow assembles used on fire lines shall have O.S.& Y. (outside
stem and yoke) valves and be listed by the National Fire Protection
Association.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 52.03 INSTALLATION COMPLIANCE.
   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance with the
town.
   (A)   Backflow prevention assembly installations shall be inspected and
approved use by the town.
   (B)   All backflow assembles shall be installed in the horizontal position.
Vertical installation shall be acceptable when approved by ASSE or UCS-FCCC &
HR specifications. Variance may be granted by review.
   (C)   A pressure vacuum breaker shall be used where the assembly is never
subjected to back-pressure and installed a minimum of 12 inches highest piping
or outlet downstream of the assembly in a manner to preclude back-pressure.
   (D)   An atmospheric vacuum breaker shall be used only where the assembly
is:
      (1)   Installed as an isolation assembly;
      (2)   Never subjected to continuous pressure (more than 12 hours
continuous); and
      (3)   Installed with the air inlet in a level position and a minimum of
six inches above the highest piping or outlet it is protecting.
   (E)   The single check valve is not considered a backflow prevention
assembly.
   (F)   Double check valve assemblies may be installed in below grade vaults
when these vaults are properly constructed in accordance with the town. They
must be insulated to prevent freezing.
   (G)   Reduced pressure backflow preventers will be installed above ground.
The unit should be placed at least 12 inches above the finish grade to allow
clearance for the repair work. A concrete slab at finish grade is recommended.
Proper drainage should be provided for the relief valve and may be piped away
from the location; provided, it is readily visible from above grade and
provided the relief valve is separated from the drain line by a minimum of
double the diameter of the supply line. A modified vault installation my be
used if constructed with ample side clearances. Freezing is a major problem in
this area. Precautions should be taken to protect above ground installations.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 52.04 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   At least once per year, it will be the duty of the customer/user
at any premises where any backflow prevention assembly(s) are installed to have
certified test made of these assemblies.
      (2)   In those specific instances where the town deems the hazard to be
great enough certified inspections and test at more frequent intervals may be
required. These tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be
performed by a certified technician approved by the state’s Department of
Public Health and Environment and the town.
      (3)   An inspection of the assembly may be performed at any time,
complying with §
52.06 of this chapter (not applicable to dual check installations).
   (B)   As necessary, the assembly shall be repaired or replaced at the
expense of the customer/user whenever the assembly(s) is found to be defective.
Records of all such tests, repairs or replacement shall be kept by customer/
user and the town.
   (C)   Existing assembles shall be sealed by the technician performing the
test at the completion of the test.
   (D)   All testing equipment used in testing of backflow prevention
assemblies shall be checked for accuracy yearly, or more often, and proof of
compliance shall be submitted to the town upon request.
   (E)   The town retains the right to test or otherwise check the installation
and operation of any containment assembly at any time to assure proper
operation.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 52.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   A representative of the town will carry proper credentials of his or
her office.
   (B)   By previously arranged appointment and upon presentation of proper
credentials, the town representative shall have the right of entry to inspect
any and all buildings and premises for cross-connections relative to possible
hazards. This right of entry shall be a condition of water service in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people throughout the town’s
distribution system.
   (C)   Where building security is required, the backflow assembly(s) should
be located in an area not subject to security.
   (D)   Questions regarding proper credentials should be directed to the town.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
§ 52.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure of the customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention. Assembles required by this
chapter shall be grounds for the discontinuance of water service to the
premises or the requirement for an air-gap separation from the public potable
water system.
   (B)   Service of water to any premises may be discontinued by the town if
unprotected cross-connections exist on the premises. When any defect is found
in an installed backflow prevention assembly or, if backflow prevention
assembly has been removed or bypassed, the service may be discontinued. Service
shall not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (C)   Discontinuance of service may be summary, immediate and without
written notice whenever, in the judgment of the town, such action is necessary
to protect the public potable water supply or the distribution system.
(Ord. 13.06, Series 2003, passed 2-17-2003)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Definition
   
53.02   Trash disposal service compulsory
   
53.03   Premises excluded from service
   
53.04   Duty of contractors to clean premises
   
53.05   Private trash hauling
   
53.06   Charges established
   
53.07   Lien for unpaid bills
§ 53.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   TRASH. All waste matter, rubbish, debris and discarded materials of every
kind, including by way of illustration and no limitation, wastepaper , tin
cans, letter, grass clippings, tree leaves, boxes and cold ashes. TRASH does
not include hot ashes, building materials, dirt, rocks, sod, furniture or
appliances.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.02 TRASH DISPOSAL SERVICE COMPULSORY.
   (A)   The town, its contractor, or town licensed operators shall furnish a
trash collection and disposal service as provided herein for all persons
resident within the town, except those specifically excluded in §
53.03 of this chapter. This service shall be maintained under the supervision
of the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   The town, by and through its duly authorized employees, its
contractors or town licensed operator, shall be the sole agency for the
collection of trash within the town. No other person shall collect trash within
the town unless expressly authorized by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.03 EXCLUSIONS FROM SERVICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the town shall not collect
trash from those premises that require special equipment or containers,
hazardous material, asphalt siding or shingles, oil and tires.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.04 DUTY OF CONTRACTORS TO CLEAN PREMISES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve any contractor of the obligation of
cleaning up premises after completion of a contract.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.05 PRIVATE TRASH HAULING.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent an individual from hauling the
individual’s own trash; providing, it is properly disposed of in conformity
with all town and county regulations; however, such individuals shall continue
to be responsible for paying all town trash disposal charges.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.06 CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   The charges for trash disposal service as provided herein shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees. Such
charges shall be added to and made a part of the monthly electric service bill
and shall be paid in the same manner as electric bills. The trash disposal
charges shall also constitute a lien upon any lots, and building or premises
served, and in the event the charges are not paid when due, the Town Clerk/
Treasurer may certify the charge or charges to the County Treasurer pursuant to
§
53.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 53.07 LIEN FOR UNPAID BILLS.
   Until all charges for town trash disposal service have been paid, they shall
constitute a lien upon any lots, land, building or premises served, and in the
event the charges are not paid when due, the Town Clerk/Treasurer may certify
the charge or charges to the County Treasurer to be placed upon the tax list
for the current year to be collected in the manner as other taxes are collected
with 10% added thereto to defray the cost of collection, and all laws of the
state for the assessment and collection of general taxes, including the laws
for the sale of property for taxes and redemption of the same, shall apply.
(Ord. 2, Series 2002, passed 8-5-2002)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY
Section
Electricity Activity Enterprise
   
54.01   Declaration and creation
   
54.02   Governing board
   
54.03   Powers
   
54.04   Assets
   
54.05   Enterprise Fund
   
54.06   Ratification and approval of prior actions
Conditions and Regulations
   
54.20   Charge for residential and commercial users
   
54.21   Rules and regulations generally
   
54.22   Rules, schedule and regulations; filing
   
54.23   Bills payable where
   
54.24   Discount period; failure to receive bill not entitlement
   
54.25   Non-payment of bill; disconnection and costs
   
54.26   Electrical wiring of consumer
   
54.27   Notice of discontinuance
   
54.28   Metering
   
54.29   Bill dispute and resolution
   
54.30   Access to meters
   
54.31   Non-liability; specific cases
   
54.32   Reservation of certain rights
   
54.33   Consumers; complaints; right of review before discontinuance
   
54.34   Cash meter deposits
   
54.35   Disconnection charges
ELECTRICITY ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE
§ 54.01 DECLARATION AND CREATION.
   (A)   There is recognized, established and designated the “Town of Haxtun
Electric Utility Enterprise” (the “Enterprise”). The Board of Trustees finds
and determines that it will provide electric services by means of the
Enterprise in conformity with all applicable state laws.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees further:
      (1)   Recognizes and confirms that the Enterprise is an “enterprise”
within the meaning of the TABOR; and
      (2)   Declares its intent that the Enterprise be operated and maintained
so as to exclude its activities from the application of TABOR.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall take all actions on behalf of the
Enterprise as hereinafter further provided.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.02 GOVERNING BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall constitute the governing board of the
Enterprise (the “governing board”).
   (B)   The governing board shall conduct the business of the Enterprise in
the same manner and follow the same procedures as the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All official business of the Enterprise shall be conducted at
regularly scheduled or special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   It shall not be necessary for the governing body to meet separately
from the regular and special meetings and study sessions of the Board of
Trustees, nor shall it be necessary for the governing body to specifically
announce or acknowledge that actions taken thereby are taken by the governing
body of the Enterprise.
   (E)   The record of the proceedings of the governing board may be
incorporated in the minutes of the Board of Trustees and shall not be required
to be recorded separately.
   (F)   No additional oath of office, qualification or procedure shall apply
with respect to service as a member of the governing board.
   (G)   All business and actions of the governing board shall be governed by
and made subject to all requirements, privileges, immunities, protections,
limitations and other provisions of law.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Enterprise shall exercise the powers of an Enterprise under TABOR,
including, without limitation, the power to issue or reissue bonds, notes or
other obligations, payable from the revenues derived or to be derived from its
provision of services.
   (B)   The Enterprise shall also be entitled to exercise such powers as are
set forth in any applicable state law, including the power to set rates, fees
and charges for services provided by the Enterprise; provided, however, in no
event shall the Enterprise have the authority to levy or collect taxes, whether
sales taxes, use taxes or ad valorem taxes, nor shall the Enterprise have the
power to direct the town to exercise its taxing power on behalf of the
Enterprise.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.04 ASSETS.
   (A)   Assets to be operated and maintained by the Enterprise shall either
remain in the ownership of the town or be owned by the Enterprise, as the Board
of Trustees determines.
   (B)   The town assigns the use and management of all assets owned by the
town, whether real or personal, to the Enterprise.
   (C)   The Enterprise shall hold title to assets it owns in the name of the
“Town of Haxtun, Colorado acting by and through its Electric Utility
Enterprise”.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.05 ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (A)   An Enterprise Fund shall be established to separately account for all
revenues and expenditure incurred by the Enterprise.
   (B)   The Enterprise shall prepare an annual budget which may be included in
the budget prepared for the town.
   (C)   All budgets, reports, audits and financial operations of the
Enterprise shall conform to and be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles applicable to governmental units and other
requirements of law.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 54.06 RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF PRIOR ACTIONS.
   All actions heretofore taken by the Mayor, any member of the Board of
Trustees, officers and employees of the town, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter, relating to the Enterprise, or actions to be
taken in respect thereof, are ratified, approved and confirmed.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 11-6-2023)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 54.20 CHARGE FOR RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS.
   All users of electric service from the town’s Municipal Electric Plant shall
be charged for the service, as of 7-1-2022, according to the following
schedules:
Residential and Commercial Rates
Residential and Commercial Rates
Winter Rate: October through March
   Service char$18.50
   1st 300 kWh 0.13100
   Next 1,200 k0.11109
   Over 1,500 k0.08800
Summer Rate: April through September
   Service char$18.50
   1st 300 kWh 0.13100
   Next 1,200 k0.12307
   Over 1,500 k0.09925
Winter Electric Heat Rate (with 10 kW of electric heat): October through March
   Service char$18.50
   1st 300 kWh 0.13100
   Next 1,200 k0.09609
   Over 1,500 k0.07935
 
(Prior Code, § 13.12.010) (Ord. 2022-3, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 54.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The rules and regulations forming a part of this subchapter shall govern the
use of electric service from the town’s Municipal Electric Plant.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.020) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.22 RULES, SCHEDULE AND REGULATIONS; FILING.
   The rate schedules and rules and regulations shall be filed with the Public
Utilities Commission of the state in accordance with the Public Utilities Act,
being C.R.S. § 40-1-103.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.030) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.23 BILLS PAYABLE WHERE.
   All bills are payable at the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer as to an
authorized agent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.060) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.24 DISCOUNT PERIOD; FAILURE TO RECEIVE BILL NOT ENTITLEMENT.
   Failure to receive bill will not entitle consumer to any discounts provided
for in the rate schedules if the bill is not paid within the discount period.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.070) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.25 NON-PAYMENT OF BILL; DISCONNECTION AND COSTS.
   (A)   Any user of electric service from the municipal electric plant, who
shall fail or refuse to pay therefor on or before the close of business on the
twentieth day of each month, shall be disconnected by the Superintendent of the
Electric Light and Water Plant, and the service shall not be again connected
until all delinquent charges and the cost of disconnecting and reconnecting
shall be paid in full, together with such other charges or expenses as are or
may be incidental thereto, and the Superintendent of the Electric Light and
Water Plant shall remove the electric meter from the premises of any person who
shall fail or refuse to pay charges on or before 30 days after the first day of
each month.
   (B)   (1)   A disconnection fee of $30 will be added to all utility accounts
that are not paid by the twentieth day of each month, effective 12-1-2024.
      (2)   The disconnection fee will not be applied to utility account
balances made up of late fees.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.080) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.26 ELECTRICAL WIRING OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   The town shall deliver electrical energy at the point where the
service wires enter the consumer’s building and its responsibility shall
terminate at the delivery point.
   (B)   All wiring and other electrical equipment used on the premises in
connection with the town service shall be suitable for the purpose hereof and
shall be maintained by the consumer at all times in safe condition in
conformity with reasonable rules and regulations in force from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.100) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.27 NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE.
   Notice to discontinue the supply of electricity must be given in writing at
the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The consumer will be responsible for
all electricity consumed until such notice is given and a reasonable time
allowed to take the final reading of the meter.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.110) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.28 METERING.
   Upon metering service the electricity consumed shall be measured by a meter
owned and installed by the town upon the premises and at a point convenient for
the town’s service and upon the registration of the meter all bills shall be
calculated.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.130) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.29 BILL DISPUTE AND RESOLUTION.
   Upon a disputed bill arising from the question of the accuracy of meters,
adjustment shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations laid down
by the Public Utilities Commission of the state.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.140) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.30 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The town’s authorized agents shall have access to the consumer’s premises at
any reasonable hour for the purpose of:
      (1)   Seeing that meters are kept in proper condition;
      (2)   To ascertain the quantity of electricity consumed; to inspect the
consumer’s installation or to cut off the supply of electricity for non-payment
of bill when past due; or
      (3)   For infraction of these rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.150) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.31 NON-LIABILITY; SPECIFIC CASES.
   (A)   The town agrees to use reasonable diligence in providing regular and
uninterrupted supply of current, but in case the supply of current should be
interrupted or fail by any reason of accident, state or municipal interference
or any other cause whatsoever, the town shall not be liable for damages for
such interruption of failure.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.160)
   (B)   The town shall not be liable for damages resulting to the consumer or
to any third person from the use of electric current, or the presence of the
town’s appliances on the consumer’s premises, unless due to willful fault or
neglect on the part of the town.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.170)
(Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.32 RESERVATION OF CERTAIN RIGHTS.
   The town reserves the right to regulate and control the use of electricity
in any class of service so that it will not unduly interfere with other
electric service.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.180) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921)
§ 54.33 CONSUMERS; COMPLAINTS; RIGHT OF REVIEW BEFORE DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   The town requests the consumer to notify the Mayor of the town of any
insufficiency of supply or unsatisfactory service or any inattention or
discourtesy upon the part of its employees or agents.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.190)
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of the supply of electricity for failure
or refusal to pay for the electric service, the consumer shall be given an
opportunity to review all assessments and charges with the Superintendent of
the Electric Light and Water Plant. The review, if requested by the consumer,
shall be held no later than ten days prior to discontinuance of service.
(Prior Code, § 13.12.200) (Ord. 85, passed - -1921; Ord. 82-61, passed - -1982)
§ 54.34 CASH METER DEPOSITS.
   A cash deposit will be required for each electric meter. The amount of the
deposit will be set by resolution.
(Ord. 13.12.091, passed - -)
§ 54.35 DISCONNECTION CHARGES.
   Charges for reconnection of a service will be set by resolution.
(Ord. 13.12.091, passed - -)
CHAPTER 55: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
55.01   Responsibility for payment; delinquencies
§ 55.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   Responsibility for payment; lien.
      (1)   Regardless of the occupancy of a premises, the owner thereof shall
be responsible for payment of all electric, water, sewer and sanitation charges
arising out of provision of such services to the owner’s premises, or arising
out of any repair to or maintenance of the owner’s service connections. All
service charges, delinquent electric, water, sewer and sanitation charges,
together with penalties, interest and the cost of collection of the same, if
any, shall be and remain a lien upon the property to which the services are
delivered from the date such charges, penalties, service charges, together with
interest and any cost of collection, become due until the same are paid. This
lien against the property, or the liability against the owner, may be enforced
by the town by an action at law or an action to enforce the lien.
      (2)   In the event that any person in possession of any premises pays the
entire charges due and owing, the payment shall relieve the owner from such
liability and the premises from the lien; however, the town shall in no event
be required to look to any person other than the owner of the premises for the
payment of the charges. No change in ownership or occupation shall affect the
application of this section or any of its provisions and the failure of any
owner to learn that he or she purchased any property against which a lien for
electric, water, sewer or sanitation serves exists shall in no way affect his
or her liability for such payment in full or be the basis for any claim of any
kind whatsoever against the town for refusing to turn of electric, water, sewer
or sanitation services until such charges have been paid in full.
   (B)   Delinquencies; remedies. If any charge for electric, water, sewer or
sanitation service imposed pursuant to this public works title is not paid by
the date due, the town may avail itself of any or all combination of the
following remedies, in addition to any other available remedies.
      (1)   The town may foreclose the lien imposed by division (A) above in
accordance with law.
      (2)   The town may maintain an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of the charges due and any interest, costs and
attorney fees allowed by law.
      (3)   The town may certify the amount of the charge due to the County
Clerk and Treasurer, together with the assessment fee provided by resolution,
to become an assessment upon the property served and to be collected and paid
over to the Town Clerk/Treasurer in the same manner as taxes.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 4-6-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Model Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Obstructing streets
   
70.03   State highways and connecting links
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 MODEL TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption. 
      (1)   Pursuant of C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 15, part 4 and Art. 16, parts 1
and 2 there is adopted Art. I and II, inclusive, of the 2003 edition of the
Model Traffic Code, promulgated and published as such by the state’s Department
of Transportation, Safety and Traffic Engineering Branch, 4201 East Arkansas
Avenue, EP 700, Denver, CO 80222.
      (2)   The subject matter of the Model Traffic Code relates primarily to
comprehensive traffic-control regulations for town.
      (3)   The purpose of this code of ordinances’ traffic code and the Code
adopted herein is to provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with
state law and generally conforming to similar regulations throughout the state
and the nation.
      (4)   Three copies of the Model Traffic Code adopted herein are now filed
in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the town and may be inspected during
regular business hours.
   (B)   Deletions. The 2003 edition of the Model Traffic Code is adopted as if
set out at length save and except the following articles and/or sections which
are declared to be inapplicable to the municipality and are therefore expressly
deleted: none.
   (C)   Additions or modifications. The said adopted Code is subject to the
following additions or modifications: none.
   (D)   Application. 
      (1)   This traffic code shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk
area, driveway, park and to every other public way or public place or public
parking area, either within or outside the corporate limits of the
municipality, the use of which the municipality has jurisdiction and authority
to regulate.
      (2)   The provisions of §§ 1401, 1402, 1413 and part 16 of the adopted
Model Traffic Code, respectively concerning reckless driving, careless driving,
eluding a police officer and accidents and accident reports shall apply not
only to public places and ways, but also throughout the municipality.
   (E)   Interpretation. 
      (1)   This traffic code shall be so interpreted and construed as to
effectuate its general purpose of conforming to the state’s Uniform System for
the Regulation of Vehicles and Traffic.
      (2)   Article and section headings of the ordinance and adopted Model
Traffic Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner
affect the scope, meaning or extent of the provisions of any article or section
thereof.
(Ord. 2, Series 2004, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person, persons, company, corporation or individual
owning or operating any railway car, railway train or other vehicle or vehicles
upon or across any street or public way within the town to so operate the same
that the free passage of ordinary vehicles and persons along or upon the street
or public way is obstructed for a longer period than ten minutes without
clearing the street or public way for the passage of such vehicles and persons.
(Prior Code, § 10.16.010) (Ord. 23, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 STATE HIGHWAYS AND CONNECTING LINKS.
   (A)   Violating statutes within portions inside town unlawful. On no portion
of any state highway or connecting link within the town shall any person
violate any of the provisions of the Model Traffic Code, nor any of the laws
amending the same, or any of the rules or regulations issued in pursuance
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.010)
   (B)   Parking and prima facie speed limit.
      (1)   (a)   Parking is prohibited at those points along the portions of
the streets which are within 20 feet of any intersection.
         (b)   Parking, when and where permitted, shall be parallel as provided
by law for parallel parking.
      (2)   Upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigations by the
Department of Highways, and by the town, it has been determined that a
reasonable and true prima facie speed limit on portions of the streets shall be
a minimum of 35 mph in the business district and a minimum of 35 mph on the
remaining portions; provided that, standard signs are erected giving notice of
the authorized speed as provided by the Model Traffic Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.020)
   (C)   Certain streets to remain through streets.
      (1)   (a)   Portions of the streets, when constructed and improved, shall
remain through streets.
         (b)   The town acknowledges the right of the state’s Department of
Highways to place signs and warnings at points selected by the Department for
the purpose of informing the traveling public that the portions of the streets
are through streets, and for the purpose of requiring such stops and speeds and
other traffic controls as may be necessary to protect the traveling public in
the use of those portions of the streets.
      (2)   No commercial activity or encroachment shall be permitted within
the right-of-way boundaries of the streets, and the width from curb to curb of
the streets shall be a minimum of 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.030)
   (D)   State highway parking prohibited. There shall be no parking whatsoever
on any roadway or contiguous shoulder of any state highway or connection link
within the town during the times and at the places where snow removal
operations are in progress.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.040)
   (E)   Required submission to state of traffic and parking regulations to be
adopted. All traffic and parking regulations hereafter adopted which pertain to
the streets and roadway which form a part of the State Highway System or are a
connecting link thereof, shall be submitted to the Department of Highways for
approval in accordance with the provisions of C.R.S. § 43-2-135 before they
shall become effective.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.050)
(Ord. 180, passed - -1960) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
traffic code.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions adopted
in this traffic code.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision adopted in this
traffic code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300.
(Prior Code, § 10.20.060) (Ord. 180, passed - -1960; Ord. 2, Series 2004,
passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trailers, trucks, oversized and recreational vehicles; parking and
storage
Golf Carts
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Designation of routes
   
71.17   Requirements and limitations
   
71.18   Safety equipment required
   
71.19   Limitation of liability
Off-Highway Vehicles
   
71.30   Designation of routes
   
71.31   Definitions
   
71.32   Requirements and limitations
   
71.33   Safety equipment required
   
71.34   Limitation of liability
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRAILERS, TRUCKS, OVERSIZED AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; PARKING AND
STORAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for any commercial or business
purpose and includes, but is not limited to, any trailer used for commercial or
business purposes. Excluded from this definition is any passenger vehicle, with
or without an attached trailer, used for any commercial or business purpose,
the total or combined length of which does not exceed 25 feet (as measured from
extreme front bumper to extreme rear bumper).
      IMPROVED SURFACE. An area having a surface of asphalt, concrete, rock,
gravel or other inorganic material specifically intended for a parking surface,
and such area has a permanent border.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING. The uninterrupted activity of continuously moving
material, equipment, goods or other items of personal property from or to a
vehicle during a 12-hour-per-day maximum period.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle that is designed primarily for
travel on the public highways and that is generally and commonly used to
transport persons and property over the public highways or a low speed vehicle.
      OVERSIZED VEHICLE. Any car, truck, van, recreational vehicle or other
motorized vehicle which exceeds eight feet or more in width including the truck
bed and/or 25 feet or more in length.
      PROPERTY SETBACK. The front most part of the residence itself.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that may be used for recreation or
personal purposes and shall include, but not be limited to, a boat, motor home,
camper trailer, detached camper or detached trailer of any design, whether
commercially manufactured or home-made. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes any
trailer used to transport any recreational vehicle(s).
      SEMI-TRAILER. Any wheeled vehicle, without motive power, that is designed
to be drawn by a truck or motor vehicle and to carry its cargo load wholly upon
its own structure and which is generally and commonly used to carry and
transport over the public highways.
      TRAILER. Any wheeled device used or designed to be towed behind a motor
vehicle for the purpose of hauling boats, vehicles, equipment or other items.
      TRUCK. Any self-propelled motor vehicle having more than two axles or
exceeding eight feet or more in width including the truck bed and/or 25 feet or
more in length.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle that is generally and commonly designed
and used to draw a semi-trailer and its cargo load over the public highways.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any motor vehicle or trailer to be parked in
the front yard of a lot on which exists a single-family or multi-family
dwelling for any purposes, except:
         (a)   The washing of such vehicle;
         (b)   Loading or unloading of items from said residence;
         (c)   Storing vehicles used in active construction or demolition of
the property; or
         (d)   Such vehicles or trailers are parked on an improved surface, in
an enclosed structure or behind the property setback.
      (2)   It is unlawful to leave or park any semi-trailer and/or truck-
tractor on any roadway, street or public right-of-way, public parking lot or
residential property, except:
         (a)   During loading or unloading of such vehicle;
         (b)   When such vehicle is being used to render services to a property
located within 200 feet of where the vehicle is parked; or
         (c)   The 400 block of East Fletcher Street, or directly on the north
side, and directly on the south side of what is currently known as the Haxtun
Memorial Arena area off the 500 Block of North Fairview Avenue.
      (3)   It is unlawful to park any recreational vehicle or trailer,
oversized vehicle or commercial vehicle, whether attached or unattached on any
public right-of-way, including any street, alley or public parking lot in
excess of 72 hours, except the parking of such a vehicle used in active
construction or demolition of said property when done in a manner as not to
obstruct or create hazardous conditions for traffic or neighbors or cause
damage to infrastructure.
      (4)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any recreational vehicle to be used
for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes for longer than two weeks during
any one-year period when parked in any location not zoned and approved for such
use.
         (b)   Persons shall not live, sleep or house keep in a recreational
vehicle parked on a public street, a public or private parking lot, or any
vacant lot.
      (5)   No person shall use any recreational vehicle or trailer for the
operation of a business or residence, while parked or stored, unless in an area
zoned and approved for such use.
      (6)   No recreational vehicle, trailer, semi-trailer, truck-tractor or
oversized vehicle shall be parked in such manner as to create a traffic hazard
or block passage on the sidewalk or other right-of-way, whether parked on the
street, public parking lot or on private property.
      (7)   This section shall not apply to town-owned or operated maintenance
or construction vehicles.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 10-3-2016; Ord. 2017-1, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Truck routes, see
Ch. 72, Schd. III.
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A gas or electric powered vehicle having three or four wheels
designed and intended to transport golf equipment and people while playing golf
and not designed primarily for travel on public highways, with a designed speed
of less than 25 mph.
   INSURED. The same liability insurance requirements needed to operate a
vehicle in the State of Colorado.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in actual physical control of the vehicle.
   STATE AND TOWN TRAFFIC LAWS. Laws of the State of Colorado regulating
traffic and any traffic codes adopted by the town.
   TOWN STREETS. The portion of a town highway, road, street, alley or right-
of-way that is improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel or
parking. TOWN STREETS do not include Colorado state highways.
   VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE. Any current, legal license not subject to revocation
or suspension.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 71.16 DESIGNATION OF ROUTES.
   All town streets, not including Colorado state highways, are designated as
golf cart routes.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 71.17 REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Operation of a golf cart by permit is authorized on all the town
streets within the town. Any person operating a golf cart under permit has all
the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle, except
when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to operating a golf cart.
   (B)   Town streets are open for golf cart use under the following conditions
and restrictions.
      (1)   The operator must have in his, her or their possession a valid,
current and un-revoked driver’s license.
      (2)   The operator is a licensed driver 16 years of age or older.
      (3)   The operator must have in his, her or their possession a valid,
current and un-revoked permit issued to the operator by the Chief of Police or
designee. Any person, 16 years and older, holding a valid, current driver’s
license may apply for a permit. All permits shall expire annually on January 1,
unless renewed. The fee for the permit shall be set by resolution. The Board of
Trustees may amend the permit fee from time to time.
         (a)   Permit application shall include the name and address of the
applicant and other information as the Chief of Police or the town may require.
         (b)   The town’s Police Department or designee shall conduct an
inspection of the golf cart prior to the issuance of the permit to assure that
the golf cart has all required equipment.
         (c)   Each permit application, whether for an initial permit or
renewal, shall be accompanied by evidence of a current liability insurance
policy.
      (4)   The operator must not operate the golf cart during inclement
weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other
condition, or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons or vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (5)   The operator must equip the golf cart with the required equipment
described under §
71.18 of this chapter.
      (6)   The operator must carry the same liability insurance requirements
needed to operate a vehicle in the state.
      (7)   The operator may not carry a number of persons in the golf cart
that exceeds the number of seats in the vehicle.
      (8)   The operator may not carry a passenger under the age of six years
or 60 pounds or according to the state statutes regarding car seat restraints.
      (9)   The operator must observe all traffic laws and regulations set
forth by the state and the town, except when those provisions cannot reasonably
be applied to motorized golf carts.
      (10)   The operator must not impede traffic without yielding to the
right-of-way of faster moving vehicles.
      (11)   All alcohol related violations will be pursuant to the Colorado
Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every golf cart must meet all the following safety equipment requirements:
   (A)   Headlamps must be white lamp, visible at a distance of at least 500
feet to the front;
   (B)   Tail lamps and stop lamps must be a red lamp visible at a distance of
a least 500 feet to the rear;
   (C)   Parking brake;
   (D)   Rear view mirror, or mirrors, properly mounted on the golf cart so as
to reflect to the operator a view of the street for a distance of at least 200
feet to rear of the cart;
   (E)   A safety flag installed on rear of vehicle extending no less than
seven feet above the ground; and
   (F)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem, properly mounted on the rear of the golf
cart pursuant to state statutes.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an assumption of any duty
of care by the town with respect to, or the assumption of any liability by the
town for any injuries to, persons or property that may result from the
operation of a golf cart on town streets.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022)
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 71.30 DESIGNATION OF ROUTES.
   All town streets and highways (hereinafter “town streets”) are designated as
off-highway vehicle routes.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 71.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   INSURED. The same insurance requirements needed to operate a street legal
motorcycle in the State of Colorado.
   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV).
      (1)   Any self-propelled vehicle designed to travel on wheels or tracks
in contact with the ground, primarily for use off of the public highways, and
which is generally and commonly used to transport persons for recreational
purposes. An OHV includes an all-terrain vehicle type I (ATV) or utility type
vehicle (UTV), as defined in this section.
         (a)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE TYPE I (ATV). Any motor vehicle 40 inches,
or over, in width, a minimum of 250 cc engine, traveling on four or more low
pressure tires, having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, having
a seat height of a minimum of 24 inches when measured at the forward edge of
the seat bottom, with handlebars for control and designed for or capable of
traveling over unimproved terrain.
         (b)   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLE (UTV). Any recreational vehicle designed
for and capable of traveling over unimproved terrain, traveling on four or more
low pressure tires, having a width of 70 inches or less, having an unladen dry
weight of 2,200 pounds or less, having a seat height of 25 to 40 inches when
measured at the forward edge of the seat bottom, a minimum of 350 cc engine,
and having side by side seating with a steering wheel for control.
      (2)   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE does not include the following:
         (a)   Vehicles designed and used primarily for travel on, over or in
the water;
         (b)   Snowmobiles;
         (c)   Military vehicles;
         (d)   Golf carts;
         (e)   Vehicles designed and used to carry disabled persons;
         (f)   Vehicles designed and used specifically for agricultural,
logging or mining purposes; or
         (g)   Vehicles registered pursuant to C.R.S. Title 42, Art. 3 (general
vehicle registration, taxation and license plate statute).
   OPERATOR. The person who is in actual physical control of the vehicle.
   STATE AND TOWN TRAFFIC LAWS. Laws of the State of Colorado regulating
traffic and any traffic codes adopted by the town.
   VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE. Any current, legal license not subject to revocation
or suspension.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 71.32 REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS.
   Town streets, except for any state highways, are open for OHV use under the
following conditions and restrictions.
   (A)   The OHV must be registered as required by C.R.S. §§ 33-14.5-101 et
seq., and the validation decal issued by the state must be displayed.
   (B)   The OHV must have in full force and effect a complying policy of
insurance as required of motor vehicles under the terms of C.R.S. §§ 10-4-601
et seq. Proof of insurance is required to be with the vehicle at all times.
   (C)   The OHV operator is licensed driver 18 years of age or older.
   (D)   Only one person may ride an ATV unless the ATV is designed for two
riders and there is footrest and handholds for each rider. No passengers will
be allowed under the age of six years or 60 pounds or according to the state
regulations regarding car seat restraints. A UTV may carry one to four persons,
as designed. All seats must be forward facing, and seatbelts are required to be
in use. No passengers will be allowed under the age of six years or 60 pounds
or according to the state regulations regarding car seat restraints.
   (E)   The OHV operator must obey all state and town traffic laws; OHV must
yield right-of-way to all other street traffic and pedestrians, but otherwise
shall be operated in the same manner as any other vehicle.
   (F)   No three-wheel OHV-type vehicles are allowed on town streets.
   (G)   The operator of an OHV may not exceed the posted speed limit or a
maximum speed of 35 mph.
   (H)   OHV operators may not travel on town sidewalks, except for when
performing routine sidewalk maintenance, examples being snow removal or
sweeping.
   (I)   The operator of an OHV on legal routes shall have all the rights and
duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of
state statutes and laws, except when those provisions cannot be reasonably
applied to OHVs and except as otherwise specifically provided for in state
statutes.
   (J)   No motor vehicles that have been modified to be used as OHVs are
permitted.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.33 SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every OHV must meet all of the following safety equipment requirements:
   (A)   Headlamp, which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is
moving;
   (B)   Tail lamp and reflector;
   (C)   Stop lamps on the rear;
   (D)   A horn or other audible warning device;
   (E)   A muffler/exhaust and emissions system;
   (F)   Rear view mirror;
   (G)   Eye protection for the operator;
   (H)   For side-by-side vehicles, a seat belt is required for each occupant;
   (I)   Anyone under the age of 18 years who is riding as a passenger on an
OHV (side-by-side) or two-person OHV must wear a helmet;
   (J)   A footrest and handhold for each passenger;
   (K)   Turn signals, if factory equipped or hand signals must be used; and
   (L)   A safety flag installed on rear of vehicle extending no less than
seven feet above the ground.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.34 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an assumption of any duty
of care by the town with respect to, or the assumption of any liability by the
town for any injuries to, persons or property that may result from the
operation of an OHV on town streets or highways.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The first violation of §
71.01 of this chapter shall carry a fine of up to $50. The second violation by
the same truck, trailer, recreational vehicle, semi-trailer, truck-tractor or
oversized vehicle or same person shall carry a fine of up to $150. The third
violation and any further violation shall carry a fine of up to $300. Each day
that the violation continues shall be considered a separate violation.
      (2)   Upon a third violation or more, or whenever a truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck-tractor, oversized vehicle or recreational vehicle has been left
on a public street or right-of-way of the town for a period of more than 72
consecutive hours, such truck, trailer, semi-trailer, truck-tractor, oversized
vehicle may be towed and impounded by or at the direction of the Police
Department or the Town Administrator. In the case of towing and impoundment of
any motor vehicle or trailer pursuant to §
71.01 of this chapter, the town and/or Police Department shall follow the
procedures set forth in C.R.S. Title 42, Art. 4, part 18, as now existing or as
hereafter amended, relating to abandoned motor vehicle for the purposes of such
procedures.
   (C)   Any operator who violates any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.19 of this chapter shall be charged with a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500.
      (1)   A permit issued under §§
71.15 through
71.19 of this chapter may be revoked or modified at any time by the Chief of
Police or designee if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely
operate a motorized golf cart on the town streets. For purposes of §§
71.15 through
71.19 of this chapter, not following any of the regulations and limitations
constitutes evidence that the operator cannot safely operate a motorized golf
cart on the town streets.
      (2)   An operator whose permit has been revoked may appeal the revocation
to the Municipal Court Judge. Appeals shall be submitted in writing to the
Municipal Court within 20 days of the date of revocation.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.30 through
71.34 of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2016-2, passed 10-3-2016; Ord. 2017-1,
passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through and stop streets
      
II.   Restricted parking
      
III.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH AND STOP STREETS.
 
                                                                                      Prior
Street   Location Provisions                                                          Code
                                                                                      Section
         All intersecting streets and alleys, including Raymond, Fletcher, Strohm and
Colorado Chase Streets, are declared to be stop streets at their points of
Avenue   intersection with Colorado Avenue; stop signs shall be erected in a uniform  10.08.020
         manner and of a type prescribed by the state’s Motor Vehicle Department at
         all such intersecting streets and alleys
Colorado Colorado Avenue is a through street from Highway 6 North to West Powell      10.08.030
Avenue   Street
         First Street in South Haxtun is designated as a through street as a part of
First    State Highway 6 through the town and no person, firm or corporation driving  10.08.040
Street   any truck, automobile or motorcycle shall enter the street or highway within
         the limits of the town without first coming to a full stop
 
(Ord. 108, passed - -1929; Ord. 109, passed - -1930; Ord. 151, passed - -1951)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING.
 
Street                Type of Parking Location             Prior Code Section
First Street in South Prohibited      On State Highway No. 12.12.010, 12.12.020
Haxtun                                14
 
(Ord. 109, passed - -1930) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Establishment of truck route.
      (1)   All trucks weighing 15,000 pounds or more, laden or unladen, within
the town limits shall utilize the following roadways:
Street Location/Extent
Street                         Location/Extent
1st Street (Highway 6)         All
East Fletcher Street           To Washington Avenue (Highway 59)
Railroad Street                All
South Burlington Avenue        From 1st Street (Highway 6) to Railroad Street
South Colorado Avenue          From 1st Street (Highway 6) to Railroad Street
South Cooper Avenue            To East Fletcher Street
South Fairview Avenue          From 1st Street (Highway 6) to Railroad Street
Washington Avenue (Highway 59) All
 
      (2)   The above truck traffic roadways shall be known as the Town Truck
Traffic Route, and use of the same shall be adhered to by trucks exceeding
15,000 pounds unless exempt pursuant to division (B) below.
   (B)   Exemptions. 
      (1)   This schedule shall not apply to:
         (a)   Town vehicles;
         (b)   Franchised public utility vehicles;
         (c)   Emergency vehicles; or
         (d)   Vehicles actively engaged in rendering services in the immediate
area.
      (2)   Such vehicles must utilize the most direct route in traveling
between a pickup, a delivery or stop and the Town Truck Traffic Route.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RENDERING SERVICES. Commercial activities carried on in connection with
the business purpose of the vehicle, such as making deliveries, service calls,
accepting articles for removal or delivery, towing and related commercial
activities.
      TRUCK. Any motor vehicle equipped with a body designed to carry property
and which is generally and commonly used to carry and transport property over
the public highways, including but not limited to, truck tractors, semi trailer
trucks and grain trucks.
   (D)   Violations; penalties. Any person who violates any section of this
schedule shall be fined in a sum not more than $300. Each day that such
condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 5-5-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal regulations
   
90.03   Livestock prohibited
   
90.04   Domestic animals
   
90.05   Licensing dogs and cats
   
90.06   Backyard chicken hens
   
90.07   At-large; injury to chickens
   
90.08   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, reptiles, fowl or
other species of animals owned, possessed or kept within the town.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any employee of the town or the town’s Police
Department, whose job duties include the enforcement of the terms of this
chapter.
   CAT. Any domesticated animal of the species Felis Domesticus.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG. Any dog defined as a “dangerous dog” in C.R.S. §
18-9-204.5(2)(b).
   DOG. Any domesticated animal of the species Canis Familiaris or other
species of the family Canida.
   OWNER or OWNERS. Any person, owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having
a financial or property interest in or having control or custody of an animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal away from the premises of the owner, possessor
or keeper thereof, and not under the control of such owner, possessor or
keeper, or an agent or member of the immediate family, either by leash, cord or
chain.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dog or cat owner to keep a dog or cat within
the town without complying with the licensing provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any dog or cat owner to knowingly permit a tag
evidencing licensing and rabies inoculation for one dog or cat to be affixed to
the collar or harness of another dog or cat.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any owner’s animal to run at large within the town.
   (D)   It is unlawful to harbor or keep a dangerous or vicious dog, or any
dangerous species of animal within the town. Violation of harboring a dangerous
or vicious dog shall be penalized as provided in §
90.08 of this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor or keep more than a
total of three dogs or cats or a combination thereof within the town, except
for litters below the age of four months. Exception: any person who, on the
effective date of this chapter, owns more licensed cats and/or dogs than
allowed under this division (E) may continue to own and keep such licensed cats
or dogs regardless of the number restrictions in this division (E). However,
the person may not replace any such cat or dog that dies or is otherwise
permanently removed from such person’s household if the replacement would cause
the total number of dogs and cats to exceed the limitations of this division
(E).
   (F)   It is unlawful for any person owning or harboring an animal to fail to
exercise proper care and control of any animal to prevent it from becoming a
public nuisance. For the purpose of this section, a PUBLIC NUISANCE includes an
animal which is a safety or health hazard, damages or destroys the property of
another, creates offensive odors or other unsanitary condition or otherwise
causes harm, disturbance or undue annoyance to the health, welfare or safety of
another person or the public in general.
   (G)   (1)   It is unlawful to keep or harbor any animal which by frequent,
habitual and continued barking, yelping, howling or other unreasonable noise
causes annoyance or disturbs the peace of a neighbor or to people passing to
and from upon the public streets or sidewalks, and the same is declared to be a
public nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to use all
reasonable means to abate such nuisance.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer shall attempt to locate and notify an
absent owner of such nuisance by any reasonable means as readily as possible.
No summons and complaint shall be issued, nor shall there be a conviction for
violation of this division (G) unless there are a least two or more complaining
witnesses from separate households who signed such complaint and have testified
at trial if held.
      (4)   An Animal Control Officer who has personally investigated the
complaint of a single complainant and observed the behavior of the animal
complained of: with regard to its frequent, habitual and continued barking,
yelping, howling or other unreasonable noise may satisfy the requirement for
the second complaining witness and may testify to his or her observations at
trial.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to import, offer for sale, keep,
maintain, harbor or permit within the town any poisonous or constricting snake
or poisonous reptile or any animal other than a domestic animal as provided for
in this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to harbor or to keep any hogs, pigs, pot belly
pigs, swine, sheep, goats, cattle, horses or other livestock within the town.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, harbor or keep within the town any
ducks, roosters, geese, turkeys, pigeons, peacocks or other domestic fowl
within the town.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 LICENSING DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Each dog and cat over the age of four months located within the
town shall be required to be licensed by the town.
      (2)   Each registration or license application shall contain the dog or
cat owner’s name, address and telephone number, a description of the dog or
cat, its breed, color, age, sex and the registration or license number issued
for the dog or cat.
      (3)   No registration permit or license shall be issued unless and until
the owner of a dog or cat provide a valid rabies vaccination certificate
indicating that the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian.
      (4)   Every owner of each dog or cat within the town shall register each
dog or cat over four months of age and pay a license fee in an amount
established by resolution of the Board of Trustees from time to time.
   (B)   Tags shall be affixed to the collar or harness of the animal and worn
at all times.
   (C)   Such registration or licensing shall be renewable annually on or
before April 30 of each succeeding year.
   (D)   Failure to purchase such license each year by April 30 shall result in
a penalty assessed to the owner of the animal in addition to licensing fees as
required above as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, the fine shall be $10 per animal;
      (2)   For the second offense, a fine of $20 per animal; and
      (3)   For the third offense, a fine of $30 per animal.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 BACKYARD CHICKEN HENS.
   (A)   Backyard chicken hens may be kept only on single-family residential
parcels subject to permitting and compliance with all of the following
requirements.
      (1)   No more than six chicken hens are permitted per parcel. Roosters
are prohibited. No person may own or keep a rooster in any district. For
purposes of this chapter, a SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARCEL is a lot or tract
of land having, as its sole primary use, one detached single-family dwelling or
one mobile home or manufactured home.
      (2)   Backyard chicken hen facilities shall meet all of the following
requirements.
         (a)   Chicken hen facilities shall include a coop and runway that are
fully enclosed and adequately designed and constructed to prevent escape of
chicken hens and entry by predators.
         (b)   Coops shall be constructed with a solid top. Coops shall be
placed on a concrete floor or be placed on a raised floor.
         (c)   Chicken hen facilities shall provide access to adequate and
fresh water at all times in a manner to prevent the water from freezing.
         (d)   The chicken hen facilities, including coop space and run, shall
be limited to a maximum of 120 square feet.
         (e)   The chicken hen facilities shall provide at least four square
feet of space per chicken hen.
         (f)   Coops shall be no taller than seven feet at the highest point of
the roof.
         (g)   1.   Chicken hen facilities shall be located in the rear or
backyard of the parcel.
            2.   Chicken hen facilities shall not be located between the rear
of the structure and the front yard lot line.
            3.   No chicken hens shall be permitted within any other portion of
a parcel.
         (h)   Chicken hen facilities shall be at least five feet from the side
of the property line and one foot from the rear property line.
         (i)   Chicken coops are considered accessory structures and are
subject to the same restrictions as stated in §
156.020 of this code of ordinances.
         (j)   1.   A building permit is required, and approval made by the
Town Superintendent, before building any part of the coop or chicken run.
            2.   The placement of the chicken facilities in relation to the
principal structure and any other structures on the property shall be
illustrated on the application.
      (3)   All coops and runs shall be regularly cleaned and maintained to
control dust, odor and waste and to prevent the facilities from constituting a
nuisance, safety hazard or health problem to surrounding properties.
      (4)   All waste materials shall be properly disposed of and not allowed
to accumulate on the property or will be considered a nuisance.
      (5)   Chicken feed must be kept within the residence, garage or accessory
building and must be stored in a re-sealable, air-tight metal, rat-proof
container to discourage attracting mice, rats and other vermin.
      (6)   Slaughtering of chicken hens is prohibited anywhere within town
limits.
      (7)   Dead animal carcasses shall be properly disposed of within 24
hours.
      (8)   At such time chicken hens are no longer kept upon the parcel, all
chicken facilities shall be removed within 30 days and the permit shall be
returned to the town.
      (9)   The chicken hens must be protected from predators by being closed
in the chicken coop from dusk to dawn.
      (10)   The chicken hens must be sheltered or confined in such fashion as
to prevent them from coming into contact with wild ducks or geese or their
excrement.
      (11)   Chickens are not permitted to “free range” (i.e., not allowed to
move about within an open area on the property without the benefit of a chicken
coop or run).
      (12)   (a)   The requirements of this section are minimum requirements
and do not affect any private controls, including any more stringent
regulations or prohibitions contained in private covenants.
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the property owner or applicant to
confirm any covenants applicable to the property.
      (13)   (a)   The keeping of backyard chicken hens shall only be permitted
on a single-family residential parcel that is enclosed by a six-foot privacy
fence on at least three sides of the parcel.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (A)(2)(13), PRIVACY FENCE
shall mean a continuous solid fence, built of approved materials per §§
150.40 through
150.44 of this code of ordinances, used to prevent view across the fence line.
      (14)   Application for keeping of chicken hens must be accompanied by
written approval of the real property owner upon which the chickens will be
kept or proof of ownership by the applicant.
      (15)   The sale of eggs from the keeping of chicken hens is strictly
prohibited and not allowed as a home occupation.
      (16)   (a)   Chicken hens and/or chicken hen facilities that are not kept
or maintained in conformance with the requirements of this chapter shall be
deemed a public nuisance and the owner or custodian shall be given 30 days to
rectify the conditions creating a public nuisance.
         (b)   If the owner or custodian has not rectified the conditions
within 30 days of the date notice is provided, the town may abate the nuisance
as provided in §§
91.04 through
91.07 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person keeping chicken hens pursuant to this chapter must
first have been issued a permit by the town, the application for which shall be
made available by the Town Clerk/Treasurer. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
assess an application fee as shall be set by the Board of Trustees by
resolution.
      (2)   A permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer upon the conviction of the permit holder of a violation of this
chapter or upon the permit holder’s entry of a plea of guilty to a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 AT-LARGE; INJURY TO CHICKENS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall have the authority to seize, impound and dispose
of any chicken hens found at large within the town’s limits.
      (2)   Such seizure, impoundment and disposal shall not require notice to
any owner or keeper, nor any attempt to locate the owner thereof.
   (B)   Any dog that attacks, injures or kills a backyard chicken hen not
protected by the coop/run on the permitted property or found running at large
in the town shall not be deemed a “dangerous dog” and the owner of such dog
shall not be charged with violating any provisions of C.R.S. § 18-9-204.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Animal Control Officer is authorized to issue a summons and
complaint to any person when said officer personally observes a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, or when information is received from any person
who has personal knowledge that an act or acts which are made unlawful by the
provisions of this chapter have occurred.
   (B)   Town police officers and any employee of the town shall be authorized
to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Fines and penalties generally.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $300. Each day during any portion of which
any violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted by any such person shall be a separate offense.
      (2)   The remedies contained in this division (A) are cumulative and are
in addition to all other remedies available to the town.
   (B)   Fines and penalties for violations regarding dangerous dogs.
      (1)   First offense: mandatory court appearance and fine of $100 minimum
and $500 maximum; and
      (2)   Second offense: mandatory court appearance and fine of $200 minimum
and $500 maximum and animal to be disposed of.
(Ord. 2023-3, Series 2023, passed 3-6-2023)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Nuisances prohibited
   
91.03   Specific nuisances declared
   
91.04   Abatement
   
91.05   Emergency abatement
   
91.06   Recovery of expenses; assessment policy
   
91.07   Authority to enter on property
   
91.08   Effect of any zoning on other ordinances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. In the interpretation
of the definitions set forth in this section, it is the express intent of the
Board of Trustees that such definitions be liberally construed to include like
matters, materials, objects or substances, whether or not the same are
specifically identified. It is farther the expressed legislative intent of the
Board of Trustees that the definitions not be considered mutually exclusive,
and that, in the interpretation of such definitions, it is recognized that any
substance, material or object may constitute litter, trash, garbage and junk at
the same time. Liberal construction of definitions is deemed necessary by the
Board of Trustees in order to fulfill the public purpose of this subchapter,
which is to ensure that the town is maintained in a clean, healthy and
attractive condition by eliminating all nuisances, including, but not limited
to, the outside storage of garbage, trash, junk and related matters, objects or
materials as set forth in this subchapter.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is:
      (1)   Left unattended on private property for a period of 24 hours or
longer without the consent of the owner, occupant or tenant of such property or
his or her legally authorized agent;
      (2)   Left unattended on public property, including any portion of a
street or highway right-of-way, within the limits of the town for a period of
24 hours or longer, unless the owner or driver has conspicuously affixed
thereto a dated notice, or otherwise notified the town of his or her intention
to remove such vehicle within 72 hours, or the vehicle is parked on a public
street within 50 feet of the property of the owner; or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle determined to be lost, stolen or unclaimed.
   BRUSH. Woody shrubs not part of a planned and maintained landscape of either
a highly structured, manicured type or a natural appearance.
   COMMERCIAL or BUSINESS. All kinds of vocations, occupations, home
occupations, professions, enterprises and establishments, any of which are
conducted on any premises or are otherwise carried on within the town or
anywhere else within its jurisdiction.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
consumption of food and wastes from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAFFITI. The defacing of public or private property by means of painting,
drawing, writing, etching or carving with paint, spray paint, ink, knife or any
other similar method.
   HOBBY. The repairing, reconditioning or rebuilding of all vehicles that is
done for personal enjoyment or entertainment only, with no profits,
compensation or reimbursements of any kind involved.
   JUNK. Scrap brass, scrap copper, scrap iron, scrap lead, scrap zinc and all
other scrap metals and alloys, bones, rags, used cloth, used rope, used rubber,
used tinfoil, used bottles, old or used machinery of any type, used tools, used
appliances, used fixtures, used utensils, used lumber, used boxes or crates
(fabricated of any material), used pipe or pipe fittings, used conduit or
conduit fittings, used tires and other manufactured goods that are so worn,
deteriorated or obsolete as to make them unusable in their existing condition.
This does not include items which are placed into the yard and used in a manner
as to enhance the features of the yard.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any non-operating vehicle or any dismantled, partially
dismantled, discarded, wrecked, demolished or partially demolished vehicle.
   LITTER. Any human-made or human-used waste that, if deposited within the
town other than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare or to impair the environment of the people of the
town. LITTER includes any garbage, trash, refuse, confetti, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazine, glass,
metal, plastic or paper container, used construction materials, motor vehicles
or parts thereof, furniture, appliances such as refrigerators, freezers,
ranges, stoves, washers and dryers, carcass of a dead animal, nauseous or
offensive (as related to the senses of a person of ordinary intelligence,
sensibility and reasonableness within the community) matter of any kind, or any
object that does or may tend to injure any person or create a traffic hazard.
   NON-OPERATING VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not capable of traveling under
its own power or trailers not capable of being towed or pulled in its existing
mechanical condition, or any vehicle not bearing a valid current registration
license plate unless specifically excluded by the State of Colorado to require
registration.
   PERSON. The owner of, or resident of, any parcel of property, as well as any
member of the household residing therein.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE or NUISANCE. A thing, act, failure to act, occupation,
activity, condition or use of property which:
      (1)   Annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of persons;
      (2)   Offends the public decency;
      (3)   Interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or render dangerous
for passage any waterway, canal or other body of water or a public park,
street, alley or other public way;
      (4)   In any way renders persons insecure in life or use of property; or
      (5)   Otherwise constitutes or is known or declared a public nuisance by
virtue of common law, state statutes or ordinances of the town.
   RECYCLING. The act of processing used or abandoned materials (beyond its
intended use) for use in creating new products.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
right-of-way publicly maintained where any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRASH. Combustible refuse, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood (except stacked firewood and stacked construction
materials), tree branches, yard trimmings, dead plant material, wood or
upholstered furniture or bedding, or similar substance or material, non-
combustible refuse including, but not limited to, metals, tin or aluminum cans,
metal furniture, dirt, rock, pieces of concrete, glass, crockery or other
minerals or mineral wastes, street rubbish including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch bag dirt and contents of litter
receptacles; provided, however, that, TRASH does not include earth and waste
from building construction during the period in which a valid building permit
issued by the town is active.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground or water by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides to
transport persons or property or pull machinery and includes, without
limitation, automobile, airplane, truck, trailer, motorcycle, motor scooter,
tractor, buggy, wagon, water craft and recreational vehicles.
   WEEDS. Any unsightly, useless, troublesome or injurious plants, grass, brush
or other noxious vegetation and includes, but is not limited to, all noxious
weeds designated in the state’s Noxious Weed Act in C.R.S. §§ 35-5.5-101 et
seq., as may be from time to time amended. WEEDS shall also include all rank
vegetable growth, to include flower gardens, shrubbery, vegetable garden and
small grain plots that may conceal filthy deposits of rubbish, trash, garbage,
junk or litter or that may conceal any health hazards or unsafe conditions.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to own, occupy or have under his or her
control any property, building, lot or premises with any nuisance located
thereon. It is unlawful and an offense for any person to:
      (1)   Do any act constituting a nuisance;
      (2)   Knowingly fail to act where such failure causes or continues a
nuisance;
      (3)   Permit any activity or condition constituting a nuisance; or
      (4)   Aid or abet in the creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
   (B)   The prohibitions of this section shall apply only to persons in a
position to avoid, prevent or discontinue a nuisance.
   (C)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to items specifically
used in the course of normal commercial business activity as described by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SPECIFIC NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances; except that, this section
shall not be construed to limit or exclude in any way any thing, act, failure
to act, occupation, activity, condition or use of property which constitutes a
nuisance as provided in §
91.01 of this chapter.
   (A)   Unclean or defective drain, ditch, garbage box. Any unclean, foul,
unsafe, unhealthy, dangerous, defective or filthy drain, ditch, tank or gutter,
or any leaking or broken slop, garbage or manure box or receptacle of like
character shall be deemed a nuisance.
   (B)   Accumulation of manure. Any accumulation of manure on property where
animals are kept, unless the premises are kept clean and the manure kept in a
box or vault that is screened from flies and emptied at least once a week,
shall be deemed a nuisance.
   (C)   Pond or pool. Any pond, pool, stream, ditch or deposit of water or
other liquid or viscous body that is unsafe, dangerous or detrimental to the
public health or safety, or unwholesome or offensive in odor, shall be deemed a
nuisance.
   (D)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders. The creation of
dense smoke, noxious fumes or odors, gas, soot or cinders in such quantities as
to render the same objectionable to the public or harmful to people or property
shall be deemed a nuisance; provided, however, this shall not apply to
fireplaces, wood stoves or barbeque facilities.
   (E)   Dangerous or dilapidated buildings and structures. Any building or
structure which is so decayed, broken down, disintegrated, dilapidated or
poorly constructed as to constitute a fire hazard or other health or safety
hazard to persons or property shall be unlawful.
   (F)   Fences and walls. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to fail to maintain fences and walls so that
they are structurally sound and in good repair or to permit broken, loose,
damaged, removed or missing parts (i.e., pickets, slats, posts, wood rails,
bricks, panels) on such fence or wall.
      (2)   It is also unlawful to build or use a fence to cover or disguise
litter, trash, garbage or junk as described by this subchapter.
   (G)   Loud and disturbing noises. Any continuous or repetitious loud noises
which disturb or disrupt the peace and quiet of persons shall be deemed a
nuisance. Such noises include, but are not limited to, malfunctioning or
excessively noisy mufflers.
   (H)   Litter, garbage, trash and junk. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Permit litter, junk, trash or garbage to accumulate on any property
not zoned for such purposes. All litter, junk, trash or garbage shall be stored
in a container or sealed plastic trash bag awaiting prompt pickup and disposal,
and the storage area shall be kept free of loose refuse. Any litter, trash or
garbage which by its nature is incapable of being stored in containers or
sealed plastic trash bags may be neatly stacked or stored for prompt pickup and
disposal. Containers and trash bags shall be secured and placed where they are
not susceptible to being spilled by animals or wind or other elements;
      (2)   Place or to permit to remain anywhere in the town any garbage or
other material subject to decay other than leaves or grass, except in water-
tight and air-tight cans or containers, which neither creates an odor or stench
or is accessible to animals. This division (H)(2) shall not apply to vegetable
materials in any properly layered, actively working compost pile;
      (3)   Dump or deposit, or to cause to be dumped or deposited, litter,
garbage, trash or junk on the property of another or on property owned by the
town unless such property is clearly marked and designated as a proper dump or
receptacle for the deposit of trash, garbage, junk or litter;
      (4)   Drive or move any loaded truck or other loaded vehicle within the
town, unless such vehicle is loaded or covered so as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place;
      (5)   Operate or cause to be operated on any highway or public way in the
town, any truck or vehicle transporting garbage, trash or junk unless such
vehicle or truck is fitted with a substantial, tight box or other container
thereon so that no portion of such garbage, trash or junk shall be thrown or
fall upon the highway or public way;
      (6)   Display, or cause or allow to be displayed, upon the property any
nuisance, as defined in this subchapter;
      (7)   Keep or store any construction materials for construction at that
location unless such materials are covered;
      (8)   Store upon his or her property or to allow to be viewed by the
general public, or any member thereof, goods, material or substances not
otherwise or specifically defined or definable as litter, trash, garbage or
junk, but which goods, materials or substances are of a type, kind, quantity or
description not commonly associated with the zoning classification or permitted
use of the property;
      (9)   Use any trailer, whether covered or uncovered, to store any litter,
garbage, trash and junk upon his or her property, unless the trailer is used
for the purposes of recycling. Recycling trailer must be moved and emptied
every 45 days;
      (10)   Deposit in or on any street, alley or public place debris, sod,
earth, sand, gravel, concrete or any other construction waste or material; and
      (11)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the prohibitions in divisions (H)
(1) and (H)(6) through (H)(9) above shall not apply if such uses of the
property are incidental to and necessary for the carrying out of any business
or occupation lawfully being carried on upon the property in question and are
permitted in the applicable zoning district.
   (I)   Weeds, brush, leaves and grass clippings. It shall be unlawful and is
declared a nuisance for any person, corporation or entity owning, occupying or
managing any lot, tract or parcel of land within the town:
      (1)   To permit weeds, grasses or brush to grow to a height in excess of
eight inches upon any lot, tract or parcel owned or occupied by such person;
      (2)   To store, keep or permit to remain on any lot, tract or parcel
owned or occupied by such person trees, limbs or branches of trees, shrubs or
plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to health or property;
      (3)   To fail to remove trees, limbs or branches of trees, shrubs or
plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to health or property,
together with all litter of all kinds, from any lot, tract or parcel owned or
occupied by such person;
      (4)   Cause or permit to accumulate any grass clippings or leaves
anywhere in the town. This division (I)(4) shall not apply to vegetable
materials in any properly layered, actively working compost pile or to a thin
layer of grass clippings used as mulch; provided, the grass clippings are not
able to blow from the property and do not cause an odor that can be detected
from any adjacent property; and
      (5)   To permit weeds, grasses or brush to grow to a height in excess of
eight inches, to store, keep or permit to remain any trees, limbs or branches
of trees, shrubs or plants, whether alive or dead, which are dangerous to
health or property, or to fail to remove the same together with all litter of
all kinds, upon and from the area from any lot, tract or parcel owned or
occupied by such person to the middle of any alley abutting behind or on the
side of the lot, tract or parcel, or upon and from the area from any lot, tract
or parcel owned or occupied by such person to the street abutting to the front
or on the side of the lot, tract or parcel, such area to include, but not
limited to, the curb, gutter and sidewalk.
   (J)   Graffiti.
      (1)   Upon the discovery of graffiti on public or private property, the
town may send a notice to the owner thereof directing the removal of the
graffiti. The notice shall state that the owner may elect to remove the
graffiti or to have the graffiti removed by the town, shall include provisions
for the owner to make the election and to defend, indemnify and hold the town,
its officers, and its employees harmless from any and all liability, claims and
demands resulting therefrom, and shall include such other information as
determined appropriate by the town. For the purpose of this division (J), OWNER
means each person who owns, occupies or has under the person’s control any
building, property, lot or premises.
      (2)   If the owner does not remove the graffiti within the time allotted
in the notice, or if the owner elects to have the graffiti removed by the town,
the town may proceed to enter the property and remove the graffiti. Recovery of
costs for such removal may be pursued in accordance with §
91.06 of this chapter.
      (3)   The failure of an owner to remove the graffiti within the time
allotted in the notice shall be conclusively deemed to be an election by the
owner to have the town enter the property and remove the graffiti.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (J) shall create any duty to any person
with regard to the enforcement thereof. No person shall have any civil
liability remedy against the town, its officers, employees or agents for any
damages arising out of or in any way connected with the enforcement or non-
enforcement of this section, including, but not limited to, any acts of
omissions of any town officer, employee or agent who undertakes any action to
enter property and remove graffiti therefrom.
   (K)   Non-operating junked or abandoned vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle upon public property in
the town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to own or have under his or her
control any abandoned vehicle. It shall be an affirmative defense to any
criminal charge arising under this division (K) that the vehicle was abandoned
without the knowledge and consent of the person charged.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to leave any abandoned or junked
vehicle on any street or highway within the town.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner of any vehicle, or
any person who is in charge or control of property, or any tenant, lessee,
occupant, renter, or otherwise, to permit or allow any abandoned or junked
vehicle to remain on such property for a time period in excess of 72 hours;
provided that, this division (K)(4) shall not apply with regard to:
         (a)   A vehicle or parts of a vehicle in a completely enclosed
building or enclosed behind a privacy fence that shields the vehicles from all
adjacent properties. Fencing materials must be on the approved list by
ordinance for residential and commercial properties;
         (b)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or
         (c)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained for impounded vehicles by the town or vehicles that are each covered
by a fitted, cloth car cover, manufactured for such purpose. Tarps may not be
used at any time to cover such vehicles within the town, and storage of such
vehicles is limited to three on any single property.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any person to repair, recondition, rebuild or
work on any motor vehicle as a hobby unless such hobby is conducted in and
totally contained within a residential or commercial garage, or enclosed behind
a privacy fence that shield the vehicles from all adjacent properties. Fencing
materials must be on the approved list by ordinance for residential and
commercial properties. Maintenance shall be conducted in a manner so as not to
create a safety, health or fire hazard. This division (K)(5) shall not apply to
minor repair and maintenance activities such as, by way of illustration only,
the changing of oil, spark plugs or tires.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure by which the
town can enforce the various nuisances addressed by this subchapter, and to
establish a policy authorizing the town to take corrective enforcement measures
should any landowner, tenant or occupant of any property located within the
town fail to voluntarily comply with any provision of this subchapter.
      (2)   Abatement of any nuisance as set forth in this section shall be
optional at the sole discretion of the town, and shall not prevent the town
from availing itself of any other enforcement or criminal action, including the
issuance of a summons to appear in Municipal Court or by obtaining a temporary
restraining order, injunction or other appropriate relief in a court of a
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Abatement procedure.
      (1)   In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building or
upon any ground or other premises within the jurisdiction of the town, notice
shall be given in writing, signed by the Town Superintendent or Police Chief,
or either’s designee, to the owner of the premises or occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such building or premises, or person creating
such nuisance where such person is known and can be found to remove such
nuisance. Should any such nuisance, within or upon any public or private
premises or as aforesaid, not be corrected within the time period stated in the
notice, which period shall be at least three days, the Town Superintendent or
the Police Chief, or either’s designee shall have the authority to abate such
nuisance.
      (2)   In case of any such nuisance in or upon any street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk, highway or public grounds in the town, the town may abate the
nuisance forthwith without such notice being given.
      (3)   The town may abate any nuisance by authorizing a private contractor
to enter the property and remove the condition or conditions and by engaging
such other necessary assistance and incurring necessary expenses to abate such
nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.05 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Where, in the opinion of the Town Superintendent, or the Police Chief,
or their designee, a nuisance constitutes an immediate and serious danger to
the public health, safety or welfare, such persons shall have the authority to
summarily abate the nuisance without notice of any kind.
   (B)   Recovery of expenses for such emergency abatement may be pursued in
accordance with §
91.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.06 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES; ASSESSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the town or contractor abating the nuisance pursuant to §
91.04 of this chapter, a notice of assessment, including the right to a hearing
as set forth in this section, shall be sent by first class mail by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer to the property owner at the address listed for the property
owner in the county records and to the property address.
      (2)   If any such notice is returned, the property shall be posted with
the notice.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY OWNER shall include renters,
lessees, occupants or persons in possession of the property.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the assessment shall include, in addition to all
contractors’ charges, all direct town costs, including inspection costs,
attorney fees, court costs and all other associated costs.
      (2)   The assessment may be paid any time prior to the assessment being
certified to the County Treasurer.
      (3)   All payments must be made directly to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   The property owner shall have 30 days from the date the notice
of assessment is mailed, or if the notice is returned from the date the
property was posted, to pay the assessment.
      (2)   Failure to pay within the time specified in the notice will cause
the assessment to be recorded against the property.
      (3)   The assessment will constitute a continuing lien against such
property.
   (D)   (1)   A property owner may file a written objection to such assessment
with the Town Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days from the date the notice of
assessment was mailed, or if the notice is returned from the date the property
was posted.
      (2)   The objection must include a phone number and address of the
objecting party, and must state with specificity the basis for the objection.
   (E)   (1)   Upon receipt of an objection, the Town Clerk/Treasurer or a
designated hearing officer shall set a hearing date, which hearing shall be
held within 30 days from receipt of the written objection.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing date shall be mailed to the person making the
objection.
      (3)   Failure to include all required information in the objection,
including the address of the objecting party, will constitute a waiver of the
right to file an objection.
   (F)   (1)   The hearing held pursuant to this section shall be conducted in
an informal manner, and shall not strictly follow the technical rules of
evidence.
      (2)   The town shall have the burden of establishing there was probable
cause to determine a violation existed on the property prior to abatement, and
that an abatement was conducted by the town.
      (3)   The standard of proof at such hearing shall be by a preponderance
of the evidence.
      (4)   A written decision shall be prepared at the conclusion of the
hearing and mailed to the property owner, which decision shall be deemed
effective upon execution of the written decision.
   (G)   (1)   A property owner who requests a hearing pursuant to this section
will be charged an additional administrative cost in the amount of the actual
cost of the hearing, as determined by the Town Clerk/Treasurer or hearing
officer, should the Town Clerk/Treasurer or hearing officer find in favor of
the town.
      (2)   Failure of such person to attend the hearing at the date and time
scheduled shall constitute a waiver of such right to a hearing and a
determination of all issues regarding the assessment.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.07 AUTHORITY TO ENTER ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Police Chief or designee may, where reasonable suspicion exists,
with or without a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction,
including the Municipal Court, enter upon any land to examine the same to
ascertain whether any nuisance exists, or to abate a nuisance in the manner
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   The town, the Police Chief or either’s designee and each such duly
authorized designated agent and officer of the town shall be free from any
action or liability on account thereof. Such authority does not allow entry
into any building or structure without consent, a court order or under other
circumstances allowed by law.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.08 EFFECT ON ANY ZONING OR OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of any zoning ordinance or other ordinance,
now or hereafter enacted, authorizing certain uses or location of property, it
is the intention of the Board of Trustees, and is so declared, that any use,
location or activity otherwise authorized by zoning ordinances or any other
ordinance shall be subject to this subchapter prohibiting nuisances.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whenever in any section of §§
91.01 through
91.08 of this chapter the doing of any act is required, prohibited or declared
to be unlawful, any person who shall be convicted of a violation of any section
of §§
91.01 through
91.08 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not more than $300. Each day that
such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fires, Fire Safety and Explosives
   
92.01   Bonfires
   
92.02   Trash
   
92.03   Ash
   
92.04   Oily waste or rages
   
92.05   Storage of combustible material
   
92.06   Explosives
   
92.07   Smoke emitters; safe operation
   
92.08   Fireworks
Flammable Gases
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Permit required; application; fee; inspection; issuance
   
92.22   Inspector appointed; inspection
   
92.23   Annual dealer’s license
   
92.24   Container requirements
   
92.25   Underground and aboveground containers
   
92.26   Location of cylinders and drums
   
92.27   Limitations on amount of gas in containers
   
92.28   Container location; capacity
   
92.29   Underground containers
   
92.30   Filling pipe inlet terminals
   
92.31   Changing containers; procedure; electric apparatus
   
92.32   Transfers of liquids or gases
   
92.33   Malodorization
   
92.34   Piping, joints and connections
   
92.35   Tanks, trucks and trailers
   
92.36   Installations declared nuisance
Flammable Liquids
   
92.50   Locational transporting restrictions
   
92.51   Delivery; vehicle size restriction
   
92.52   Delivery within 50 feet of a building
   
92.53   Vehicle storing or parking restriction
   
92.54   Underground tanks; venting requirement
   
92.55   Aboveground tanks; diking or provision of retaining wall; electrical
grounding; care and maintenance
   
92.56   Premises where liquids stored; ventilation
   
92.57   Time allowance for delivery
   
92.58   Safety regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRES, FIRE SAFETY AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.01 BONFIRES.
   It is unlawful for any person or trash, lumber, leaves, straw or other
combust in any street, alley or vacant lot, except by special permission of the
Chief of the Fire Department, when such burning shall be done in screened
metallic receptacles approved by him or her and under such proper safeguards as
he or she may direct as to time and weather; provided that, the Chief of the
Fire Department may issue a general permit, by the publication during certain
seasons of the year, for the burning of leaves or other like material where
conducted during daylight and with an adult in constant attendance.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.010) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TRASH.
   No person or persons shall allow to remain longer than 36 hours, or over
night, in any alley, or on any sidewalk or premises, within 30 feet of any
building, empty boxes, barrels, rubbish, trash, wastepaper, excelsior or other
like combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.020) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste provisions, see
Ch. 53.
§ 92.03 ASH.
   (A)   No person or persons shall be allowed to place ash within any building
in any box, barrel or wooden vessel or upon any wooden vessel or floor.
   (B)   No ashes shall be kept or deposited in any part of the town unless the
same shall be kept in a secure incombustible container and every owner of
property where ashes are kept or deposited shall erect upon the premises a
secure incombustible receptacle or ash pit for that purpose so located as not
to endanger walls, fences and other combustible material.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.030) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 OILY WASTE OR RAGS.
   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on the premises any oily waste or
oily rags, unless at all times when not actually in use such oily waste and
oily rags be kept in a metal can with self-closing cover and riveted joints,
standing on metal legs which raise the bottom of the container at least five
inches above the floor.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.040) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   No hay, straw, lumber or other combustible material shall be piled or stored
within the fire limits unless completely enclosed within buildings built in
conformity with the town ordinances and such material shall not be piled or
stored outside of the fire limits, except by special permission of the Chief of
the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.050) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to store or keep any dynamite, nitroglycerin, giant
powder or other explosives other than gunpowder in any storeroom, warehouse,
building or on any premises within the town limits.
   (B)   It is unlawful to store or keep any explosives in excess of one pound
in any storeroom, warehouse, building or on any premises within the town,
providing gunpowder may be kept in closed canisters in a store or warehouse
away from artificial heat or light, and providing further that not more than 50
pounds of gunpowder may be kept if in a magazine made of fire-proof material or
of wood covered with sheet iron and mounted on wheels, and kept securely
locked, except when necessarily opened for use by authorized persons, and not
more than 1,000 blasting caps in a similar, but separate, magazine. The
magazines shall conspicuously labeled in red letters at leave four inches high
“EXPLOSIVES” and located within the building on the floor nearest the street
level and within ten feet of the street entrance.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who sells or stores gunpowder shall
obtain a permit from the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall inspect the
place where same is kept and the dealer shall fully disclose to the Chief where
same is kept both in the day and night time.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.060) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 SMOKE EMITTERS; SAFE OPERATION.
   No person, persons, firm, corporation, manager or individual owning,
operating or in control of any flue, chimney, smokestack, locomotive, traction
smoke or other products of combustion, within the town, shall so operate the
same that sparks or other heated material likely to ignite buildings or other
inflammable material shall be discharged therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070) (Ord. 92, passed - -1925) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 FIREWORKS.
   Any person or persons who shall within the limits of the town, explode or
set off any firecracker, torpedo, toy pistols, Roman Candles, sky rockets or
other pyrotechnic display or fireworks of any kind or any person or persons who
shall sell or give to any person or persons any such fireworks of any kind, or
any person or persons who shall fire off, shoot or discharge any gun or firearm
shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010) (Ord. 21, passed - -1910) Penalty, see §
92.99
FLAMMABLE GASES
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   FLAMMABLE GASES. All compressed and liquefied petroleum gases, such as
butane and propane gases and all other gases used, handled, stored or sold in
compressed and liquid form.
   INSTALLATION. All tanks, drums, pipes, connections, fittings, valves,
outlets, openings, appliances and apparatus of whatsoever nature or description
used for storage, use of handling of flammable gases, whether temporary or
permanent.
   PERSON. Natural persons, firms and corporations.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.010) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946)
§ 92.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; INSPECTION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Required. No person shall store, use or handle any flammable gas, as
defined in this subchapter, in the town in any quantity in excess of two
cylinders containing 100 pounds liquefied gas each, without a permit so to do
first had and obtained from the Town Clerk/Treasurer in the manner provided for
in this subchapter; except that, a dealer licensed as such under this
subchapter may handle flammable gases in making sales or distribution thereof
without a permit if he or she shall otherwise comply with the requirements of
this subchapter in respect thereto.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.020)
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Application for all permits required by this subchapter shall be
made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer stating the name of applicant whether owner,
lessee or tenant, of the premises; the location and description of the place
where such liquid gases are to be used, stored or handled, the maximum number
of gallons to be stored or handled; a detailed description of the installation
to be used therefor; and, if for less than one year, the maximum period of such
storage or handling.
      (2)   If application is made by a lessee, tenant or person occupying any
premises other than an owner, the application shall state the name or names and
addresses of the owner or owners of the premises, and shall be accompanied by
the written consent to the installation by the owner or owners.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.030)
   (C)   Fee.
      (1)   No permit required by this subchapter shall be issued except upon
payment to the Town Clerk/Treasurer of a fee established by resolution for each
installation supplying five appliances or less, and additional fee established
by resolution for each appliance over five.
      (2)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall expire on December 31
following date of issuance and no permit shall be issued to expire at any other
time. No rebate or reduction shall be made in such permit fee for the portion
of the year expired at time of issuance; except that, a reduction shall be made
for permits issued in 1946 in the proportion that the portion of the year
expired calculated to the first of the month in which it is issued, shall bear
to the entire year.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.040)
   (D)   Issuance; inspection required.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued unless and until the installation, and
every portion thereof, have previously been inspected as required by this
subchapter and a certificate approving the installation is endorsed on the
application by the inspector.
      (2)   If any portion of the installation is covered from view before
inspection is made thereof, the same shall be uncovered for the purpose of
making inspection at the expense of the applicant for permit.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.050)
   (E)   Requirements.
      (1)   Permits shall be issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer upon payment of
the permit fee and all inspection fees provided for in this subchapter;
provided, the inspector endorses his or her approval of the installation upon
the application for a permit.
      (2)   A permit may be revoked by action of the Board of Trustees if a
subsequent inspection shows that the installation does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter, or if the holder is convicted for violation of
any provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.060)
(Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 INSPECTOR APPOINTED; INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint some qualified person to
make the inspections required by this subchapter for such term and compensation
as the Board of Trustees may from time to time determine.
      (2)   No person shall be ineligible to serve as such inspector because of
his or her holding some other office of or employment by the town.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.070)
   (B)   (1)   All installations shall be inspected semi-annually, prior to
issuance of any permit required by this subchapter and during the first 15 days
of July in each year during which the permit is in effect; provided that, no
July inspection shall be made if the initial permit is issued after April 1 of
any year.
      (2)   The holder of the permit shall pay an inspection fee of $1 to the
town for each July inspection of installations supplying five appliances or
less, and an additional $0.10 for each appliance over five. No inspection fee
shall be charged for inspections made at the time of issuance of permit.
      (3)   If any person fails or refuses to pay any inspection fee required
by this chapter within 30 days after notice that such inspection has been made,
the permit of such person shall be revoked.
      (4)   Upon making each inspection, the inspector shall make a certificate
of inspection, in duplicate approving, or disapproving, the installation. If he
or she disapproves the installation, he or she shall state briefly therein his
or her grounds therefor, and the holder of the permit shall have 30 days
thereafter to remedy the defects, but during such period no use shall be made
of the installation. One of the duplicate certificates shall be filed with the
Town Clerk/Treasurer and the other delivered to the holder of the permit, or
his or her agent in charge of the premises, and the same shall be deemed notice
of the contents thereof and that the inspection has been made.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.080)
(Ord. 139, passed - -1946)
§ 92.23 ANNUAL DEALER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall sell any flammable gases, as defined in this
subchapter, either at wholesale or retail, for the use, handling or storage,
within the town, or make any installation for the use, handling, storage or
sale thereof within the town, unless he or she holds an annual dealer’s license
for the current year from the town permitting him or her to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Application for the dealer’s licenses shall be made to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer who shall issue the license upon payment of an annual license
fee of $5.
      (2)   Each license shall be issued for the calendar year in which issued,
and shall expire on December 31 following date of issuance.
      (3)   No reduction in the expense fee shall be made for the expired
portion of the year calculated to the first of the month in which it is issued
bears to the entire year.
   (C)   (1)   The license may be revoked if the license, or its, her, his or
their agents or employees, violate any requirement of this subchapter in
respect to the sale or installation of flammable gases.
      (2)   A renewal license may be refused on the same grounds.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.090) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   No container shall be used or installed for the use, handling or storage of
flammable gases in the town that does not meet the following requirements as to
design and construction.
   (A)   Containers not in the form of drums shall be marked as suitable for
the class or the specific kind of gas to be kept therein, and no gas or greater
vapor pressure than that for which a container is marked shall be kept therein.
   (B)   All containers, other than cylinders or drums, shall have a designed
working pressure as follows:
      (1)   For gases with vapor pressures not to exceed 80 pounds per square
inch gauged at 100°F: 80 pounds per square inch minimum gauge;
      (2)   For gases with vapor pressure between 80 and 125 pounds per square
inch gauged at 100°F: 125 pounds per square inch minimum gauge; and
      (3)   For gases with vapor pressure between 125 and 200 pounds per square
inch gauged at 100°F: 200 pounds per square inch minimum gauge.
   (C)   No container shall have a shell or head thickness of less than three-
sixteenths of an inch.
   (D)   Cylinders and drums must meet the requirement in respect to design and
construction of the Interstate Commerce Commission for cylinders and drums
carried or handled in interstate commerce and must be marked to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.100) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 UNDERGROUND AND ABOVEGROUND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No underground or aboveground storage container for flammable gases
other than cylinders or drums shall be located, with respect to the size of the
container, closer than the following distances to any building or property
line:
 
Water Capacity (per Container) Minimum Distance
                               Underground Aboveground
Less than 125 gallons          10 feet     None
125 to 500 gallons             10 feet     10 feet
500 to 1,200 gallons           25 feet     25 feet
Over 1,200 gallons             50 feet     50 feet
 
   (B)   Aboveground containers of capacity exceeding those shown in the above
table may be installed close to buildings or property lines when specifically
approved by the inspection department having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.110) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 LOCATION OF CYLINDERS AND DRUMS.
   No cylinder or drum, whether in use or in reserve, for the storage, use or
handling of flammable gases, or the regulating equipment for use therewith,
shall be located inside any building (except a building specially provided for
the purpose of housing the same), nor within ten feet of any combustible
material.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.120) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 LIMITATIONS ON AMOUNT OF GAS IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No container shall be filled with liquid gas in a quantity greater
than the percentage of water capacity by weight, depending on the specific
gravity of the gas at 60°F, as follows:
 
Specific Gravity Aboveground (in Percent) Underground (in Percent)
4-10             32                       35
5-10             41                       44
6-10             53                       56
 
   (B)   As to gases of intermediate or higher specific gravities, filling is
limited to corresponding percentages of the water capacity by weight.
   (C)   In no case shall the amount of liquid be such as to fill the container
at a temperature of 130°F aboveground or 105°F underground.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.130) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 CONTAINER LOCATION; CAPACITY.
   (A)   No container shall be located inside or under any building.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.140)
   (B)   No container shall have a capacity of more than 500 gallons water
capacity when located within the fire limits of the town, nor more than 10,000
gallons when located outside such fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.150)
(Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 UNDERGROUND CONTAINERS.
   Underground containers shall be buried at least three feet below ground and
shall be coated with protective material to prevent erosion.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.160) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 FILLING PIPE INLET TERMINALS.
   Filling pipe inlet terminals shall be located outside of the building and
not less than ten feet from any building or property line and five feet from
any driveway.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.170) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 CHANGING CONTAINERS; PROCEDURE; ELECTRIC APPARATUS.
   (A)   No open flames or sparks shall be permitted in the proximity of the
container when changing cylinders or drums.
   (B)   All electric apparatus in any installation shall be inspected and
approved before the installation is used.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.180) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 TRANSFERS OF LIQUIDS OR GASES.
   All transfers of liquids or gases shall be by hose or piping capable of
withstanding five times the designed working pressure of the container and free
from leaks.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.190) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946)
§ 92.33 MALODORIZATION.
   All gas, before use or storage for use, shall be effectively malodorized.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.200) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946)
§ 92.34 PIPING, JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   No piping, tubing, valves or connections shall be used or installed for use
in the use, handling or storage of flammable gases, unless the same comply with
the following requirements and specifications.
   (A)   All piping and tubing shall be of wrought iron, steel, brass or
copper, with a wall thickness of forty-nine one-hundreds of an inch, and
suitable for a safe working pressure of 125 pounds per square inch.
   (B)   (1)   All joints shall be made with fittings capable of withstanding a
pressure of 125 pounds per square inch for gas pressure of less than 100 pounds
per square inch. Heavier fittings shall be used for greater pressures.
      (2)   Joints for wrought iron or steel pipe shall be welded. Cast-iron
fitting shall not be used.
   (C)   No liquefied petroleum gas shall be piped or led into any house or
other habitation, industrial or other building, at greater than eight-ounce
pressure. No piping other than rigid iron pipe with air-tight connections, and
capable of a working pressure of not less than 125 pounds, shall be used in
conveying liquefied petroleum gases from the regulator equipment to and into
the appliances.
   (D)   Fill connections shall be equipped with approved back pressure check
valves. All containers, except relief connections, equipped with automatic
excess flow valves. All connections to containers, except gauge and safety shut
off valves close to container. Discharge from safety reliefs shall be located
not less than five feet from any opening to a building below the level of such
discharge.
   (E)   Every container or vaporizer shall be provided with a relief area that
cannot be shut off by stop valves, and which will permit discharge to the
outside air at more than 125% of the designed working pressure.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.210) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.35 TANKS, TRUCKS AND TRAILERS.
   No tank, truck or trailer shall be used for the transportation or handling
of flammable gases within the town, other than in cylinders or drums, that does
not comply with all requirements of §
92.32 of this chapter, in respect to containers other than cylinders or drums.
All other regulations in this subchapter in respect to piping, safety devices,
filling, loading and unloading shall apply to such tank, trucks and trailers
the same as to containers.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.220) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 INSTALLATIONS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The Board of Trustees may declare any installation or state of things
existing contrary to the provisions of this subchapter a nuisance and order it
abated.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.230) (Ord. 139, passed - -1946)
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 92.50 LOCATIONAL TRANSPORTING RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any tank vehicle used for the purpose of transporting
flammable liquids and having a cargo tank capacity in excess of 1,500 gallons
to operate on or travel over or upon any of the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, boulevards or other public places within the town, except Washington
Avenue and U.S. Highway No. 6.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.010) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.51 DELIVERY; VEHICLE SIZE RESTRICTION.
   No retail delivery shall make delivery of flammable liquids, if such vehicle
has a total tank capacity of over 1,500 gallons; and, provided further that,
the capacity of any one compartment thereof does not exceed 600 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.020) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.52 DELIVERY WITHIN 50 FEET OF A BUILDING.
   The delivery to or the drawing from any storage tank or tanks, or any other
depository or container of gasoline or other flammable liquids by motor or
truck transport shall not be permitted within 50 feet of a building when the
total carrying capacity of such transport is in excess of 1,500 gallons or
where, 0in the judgment of the town inspector, such operations would be unsafe
to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.030) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.53 VEHICLE STORING OR PARKING RESTRICTION.
   It is unlawful to store or cause to be stored any tank vehicle, if any such
vehicle has a tank capacity in excess of 1,500 gallons, carrying flammable
liquids or gases, in any part of the town; and, further, it is unlawful for any
tank vehicle carrying flammable liquids or gases to park the same upon any of
the streets, highways, avenues, alleys, boulevards or other public places
within the town, between sunset and sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.040) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.54 UNDERGROUND TANKS; VENTING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All underground storage systems which may contain flammable liquids
shall have at least a one-inch vent pipe run from top of tank to a point
outside of any building and shall end at least 12 feet above level of the
ground and in a location remote from any fire escape, and never nearer than
three feet, measured and horizontally and vertically, from any window or other
opening of any building, and the tank vent pipe shall terminate in a gooseneck
protected in the outer end by a 30-by-30 mesh, or equivalent brass wire screen.
   (B)   The vent pipes from two or more tanks may be connected to one upright;
provided, they are connected at a point at least one-foot above level of source
of supply.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.050) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.55 ABOVEGROUND TANKS; DIKING OR PROVISION OF RETAINING WALL; ELECTRICAL
GROUNDING; CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Aboveground storage tanks containing flammable liquids shall be diked
or the entire yard provided with a curb or retaining wall or other suitable
means taken to prevent the discharge of liquid onto other property in case of
rupture of tank or piping. The impounding basin shall have a capacity equal to
that of the largest tank, plus 10% of the aggregate capacity of all other tanks
so protected. The provisions of this section shall be complied with within one
year from the date of the passage of the ordinance codified in this subchapter
in case of existing storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.060)
   (B)   All tanks shall be electrically grounded by resting directly on moist
earth or otherwise electrically grounded to permanent moisture in an approved
manner. No insulated connections shall be permitted. Every tank shall have some
form of emergency relief construction, to be approved by the town inspector.
The location of bulk fuel stations shall be approved by the Board of Trustees
and the town inspector.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.070)
   (C)   (1)   No combustible material, except wooden docks, shall be permitted
on the premises and the entire premises shall be kept free of weeds and trash.
      (2)   Open light or flame shall be kept away from the vicinity of tanks
or piping containing flammable liquids.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.080)
(Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.56 PREMISES WHERE LIQUIDS STORED; VENTILATION.
   (A)   The premises where flammable liquids are stored shall be kept
ventilated, clean and free of debris, waste and other combustible materials.
   (B)   Flammable liquids shall not be kept or stored in open containers.
   (C)   The premises within ten feet of any storage tank installed aboveground
shall be kept clean and free from combustible materials, including dry
vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.090) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.57 TIME ALLOWANCE FOR DELIVERY.
   Any person, association of persons, or any corporation engaged in the
delivery of flammable liquids in the town, in quantity exceeding 100 gallons,
shall be allowed 12 hours in the day time within which to distribute or deliver
the shipment.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.100) (Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.58 SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Vehicular.
      (1)   Except as provided in this subchapter, vehicles shall be
constructed in compliance with the statutes of the state and in compliance with
the standards of the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
      (2)   There shall be maintained on each vehicle, at all times, at least
one fully charged portable fire extinguisher of at least one-gallon capacity,
of a type suitable for combating gasoline fires, located in a readily
accessible place.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.110)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   Smoking is prohibited on any vehicle at all times, and no smoking,
flame or fire shall be permitted within 25 feet of a vehicle while loading or
unloading.
      (2)   At least one person shall be in attendance at all times during the
loading or unloading of any vehicle.
      (3)   The filling of an automobile or truck fuel tank from a retail
gasoline pump or other device or container while the motor of the vehicle is in
operation, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.120)
(Ord. 176, passed - -1959) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation, except members of the
Fire Department in the performance of their duties as such and others acting
under orders of the Chief of the Fire Department, violating any of the
provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5
and not more than $300 for each offense. Members of the Fire Department, when
acting as such, violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall be dealt with in accordance with the bylaws of the
Fire Department.
         (b)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions and the imposition of one
penalty for any violation of §§
92.01 through
92.07 of this chapter shall not excuse the violation, or permit it to continue;
and all persons convicted thereof shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.080)
      (2)   Upon conviction of violating the provisions of §
92.07 of this chapter, the offender shall be fined not less than $5, nor more
than $100, and the cost of suit for each and every offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.08.070)
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of §
92.08 of this chapter shall be fined in the sum of $25.
(Prior Code, § 8.12.010)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
92.20 through
92.36 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not
less than $5, nor more than $300, for each offense. Each 25 hours of use of
equipment not meeting the requirements of §§
92.20 through
92.36 of this chapter or use of flammable gas without a permit, or of operating
as a dealer without a dealer’s license shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.16.240)
      (2)   Any person failing to abate such nuisance, per §
92.36 of this chapter, after written notice is served upon him or her that it
has been declared such by the Board of Trustees shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each 24 hours he or she permits such nuisance to exist
and, upon conviction for each such offense, he or she shall be fined not less
than $50, nor more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 18.16.230)
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm, association or corporation who violates or
causes to be violated any provision of §§
92.50 through
92.58 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$300 for each offense.
      (2)   Any person who aids, abets or assists, or advises and encourages
the violation of §§
92.50 through
92.58 of this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $300
for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.20.130)
(Ord. 16, passed - -1910; Ord. 21, passed - -1910; Ord. 92, passed - -1925;
Ord. 139, passed - -1946; Ord. 176, passed - -1959)
CHAPTER 93: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
93.01   Legislative declaration
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   General smoking restrictions
   
93.04   Exceptions to smoking restrictions
   
93.05   Optional prohibitions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION.
   The town finds and determines that it is in the best interest of the people
of the town to protect non-smokers from involuntary exposure to environmental
tobacco smoke in most indoor areas open to the public, public meetings, food
service establishments and places of employment. The town further finds and
determines that a balance should be struck between the health concerns of non-
consumers of tobacco products and the need to minimize unwarranted governmental
intrusion into, and regulation of, private spheres of conduct and choice with
respect to the use or non-use of tobacco products in certain designated public
areas and in private places. Therefore, the town declares that the purpose of
this chapter is to preserve and improve the health, comfort and environment of
the people of the town by limiting exposure to tobacco smoke.
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AUDITORIUM. The part of a public building where an audience gathers to
attend a performance, and includes any corridors, hallways or lobbies adjacent
thereto.
   BAR. Any indoor area that is operated and licensed under C.R.S. Title 44,
Art. 3, primarily for the sale and service of alcohol beverages for on-premises
consumption and where the service of food is secondary to the consumption of
such beverages.
   CIGAR-TOBACCO BAR. A bar that, in the calendar year ending 12-31-2005,
generated at least 5% or more of its total annual gross income or $50,000 in
annual sales from the on-site sale of tobacco products and the rental of on-
site humidors, not including any sales from vending machines. In any calendar
year after 12-31-2005, a bar that fails to generate at least 5% of its total
annual gross income or $50,000 in annual sales from the one-site sale of
tobacco products and the rental of on-site humidors shall not be defined as a
CIGAR-TOBACCO BAR and shall not thereafter be included in the definition
regardless of sales figures.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any person who:
         (a)   Performs any type of work for benefit of another in
consideration of direct or indirect wages or profit; or
         (b)   Provides uncompensated work or services to a business or non-
profit entity.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE includes every person described herein regardless of
whether such person is referred to as an employee, contractor, independent
contractor or volunteer or by any other designation or title.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation or non-profit
entity that employs one or more persons. EMPLOYER includes, without limitation,
the legislative, executive and judicial branches of state government; any
county, city and county, city or town, or instrumentality thereof, or any other
political subdivision of the state, special district, authority, commission or
agency; or any other separate corporate instrumentality or unit of state or
local government.
   ENTRYWAY. The outside of the front or main doorway leading into a building
or facility that is not exempted in §
93.04 of this chapter. ENTRYWAY also includes the area of public or private
property within a specified radius outside of the doorway. The specified radius
shall be five feet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE, ETS or SECONDHAND SMOKE. The complex mixture
formed from the escaping smoke or a burning tobacco product and smoke exhaled
by the smoker.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any indoor area or portion thereof in which the
principal business is the sale of food for on-premises consumption. The term
includes, without limitation, restaurants, cafeterias, coffee shops, diners,
sandwich shops and short-order cafés.
   INDOOR AREA. Any enclosed area or portion thereof. The opening of windows or
doors, or the temporary removal of wall panels, does not convert an INDOOR AREA
into an outdoor area.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any indoor area or portion thereof under the control of
an employer in which employees of the employer perform services for, or on
behalf of, the employer.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned or operated by:
      (1)   The state, including the legislative, executive and judicial
branches of state government;
      (2)   Any county, city and county, city or town, or instrumentality
thereof, or any other political subdivision of the state, a special district,
an authority, a commission or an agency; or
      (3)   Any other separate corporate instrumentality or unit of state or
local government.
   PUBLIC MEETING. Any meeting open to the public pursuant to C.R.S. Title 24,
Art. 6, part 4, or any other law.
   SMOKE-FREE WORKING AREA. An indoor area in a place of employment where
smoking is prohibited under this chapter.
   SMOKING. The burning of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other matter
or substance that contains tobacco.
   TOBACCO. Cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies and periques; granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff and snuff
flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco;
shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other
kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for
chewing or for smoking in a cigarette, pipe or otherwise, or both for chewing
and smoking. TOBACCO also includes cloves and any other plant matter or product
that is packaged for smoking.
   TOBACCO BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership or other
enterprise engaged primarily in the sale, manufacture or promotion of tobacco,
tobacco products or smoking devices or accessories, either at wholesale or
retail, and in which the sale, manufacture or promotion of other products is
merely incidental.
   WORK AREA. An area in a place of employment where one or more employees are
routinely assigned and perform services for or on behalf of his, her or their
employer.
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.03 GENERAL SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.04 of this chapter, and in order to reduce the levels of exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke, smoking shall not be permitted and no person shall
smoke in any indoor area, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Public meeting places;
      (2)   Elevators;
      (3)   Government-owned and or operated means of mass transportation,
including, but not limited to, buses, vans and trains;
      (4)   Taxicabs and limousines;
      (5)   Grocery stores;
      (6)   Gymnasiums;
      (7)   Jury waiting and deliberation rooms;
      (8)   Courtrooms;
      (9)   Child day care facilities;
      (10)   Health care facilities including hospitals, health care clinics,
doctor’s offices and other health care related facilities;
      (11)   Any place of employment that is not exempted pursuant to §
93.04 of this chapter. In the case of employers who own facilities otherwise
exempted from this chapter, such employer shall provide a smoke-free work area
for each employee requesting not to have to breathe environmental tobacco
smoke. Every employee shall have a right to work in an area free of
environmental tobacco smoke;
      (12)   Food service establishments;
      (13)   Bars;
      (14)   Limited gaming facilities and any other facilities in which any
gaming or gambling activity is conducted;
      (15)   Indoor sports arenas;
      (16)   Restrooms, lobbies, hallways and other common areas in public and
private buildings, condominiums and other multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (17)   Restrooms, lobbies, hallways and other common areas in hotels and
motels, and in at least 75% of the sleeping quarters within a hotel or motel
that are rented to guests;
      (18)   Bowling alleys;
      (19)   Billiard or pool halls;
      (20)   Facilities in which games of chance are conducted;
      (21)   The common areas of retirement facilities, publicly-owned housing
facilities and nursing homes, not including any resident’s private residential
quarters;
      (22)   Public buildings;
      (23)   Auditoria;
      (24)   Theaters;
      (25)   Museums;
      (26)   Libraries;
      (27)   To the extent not otherwise provided in C.R.S. § 25-14-103.5,
public and non-public schools;
      (28)   Other educational and vocational institutions; and
      (29)   The entryways of all buildings and facilities listed in this
division (A).
   (B)   A cigar-tobacco bar shall not expand its size or change its location
from the size and location in which it existed as of 12-31-2005. A cigar-
tobacco bar shall display signage in at least one conspicuous place and at
least four inches by six inches in size stating: “Smoking allowed. Children
under 18 years of age must be accompanied by a parent or guardian.”
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTIONS TO SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Private homes, private residences and private automobiles; except
that, this chapter shall apply if any such home, residence or vehicle is being
used for child care or day care or if any private vehicle is being used for the
public transportation of children or as part of health care or day care
transportation;
   (B)   Limousines under private hire;
   (C)   A hotel or motel room rented to one or more guests if the total
percentage of such hotel or motel rooms in such hotel or motel does not exceed
25%;
   (D)   Any retail tobacco business;
   (E)   A cigar-tobacco bar;
   (F)   The outdoor area of any business;
   (G)   A place of employment that is not open to the public and that is under
the control of an employer that employs three or fewer employees; and/or
   (H)   A private, non-residential building on a farm or ranch, as defined in
C.R.S. § 39-1-102 and that has annual gross income of less than $500,000.
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.05 OPTIONAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The owner or manager of any place not specifically listed in §
93.03 of this chapter, including a place otherwise exempted under §
93.04 of this chapter, may post signs prohibiting smoking or providing smoking
and non-smoking areas. Such posting shall have the effect of including such
place, or the designated non-smoking portion thereof, in the places where
smoking is prohibited or restricted pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner or manager of a place not specifically listed in §
93.03 of this chapter, including a place otherwise exempted under §
93.04 of this chapter, is an employer and receives a request from an employee
to create a smoke-free work area as contemplated by §
93.03(A)(11) of this chapter, the owner or manager shall post a sign or signs
in the smoke-free work area as provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise
controls the use of a premises subject to this chapter to violate any provision
of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to smoke in an area where smoking is
prohibited pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A person who violates this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $200 for a first violation within a calendar
year, a fine not to exceed $300 for a second violation within a calendar year
and a fine not to exceed $500 for each additional violation within a calendar
year. Each day of a continuing violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 2, Series 2006, passed 8-7-2006)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Gun Club Lake Activities
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Motorboats
   
94.03   Life jackets
   
94.04   Prohibited activities
   
94.05   Special use permits
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GUN CLUB LAKE ACTIVITIES
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   GUN CLUB LAKE. The area encompassed by the legal description: ten-acre
parcel of land, more or less, situated in the southeast quarter (SE 1/4) of the
southwest quarter of the northwest quarter (SW 1/4 NW 1/4) of Section 32,
Township 8 North, Range 47 West, of the 6th P.M., Phillips County, Colorado.
   LIFE JACKET. A personal flotation device of a type approved by the
Commandant of the United States Coast Guard in good and serviceable condition.
   MOTORBOAT. Any vessel propelled by machinery whether or not such machinery
is the principal source of propulsion.
   VESSEL. Every description of water craft used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation of persons or properly on the water.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.010) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995)
§ 94.02 MOTORBOATS.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, navigate or operate a motorboat or
motorized vessel on Gun Club Lake.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.020) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 LIFE JACKETS.
   It is unlawful for any person to be aboard any vessel on Gun Club Lake
without wearing a life jacket at all times while on board.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.030) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are prohibited on the Gun Club Lake area: swimming;
hunting; ice skating; ice fishing; and the use of alcoholic beverages. In
addition, the use of motorized vehicles and fires shall be restricted to
designated areas so posted.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.040) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, generally, see
Ch. 94.
   Open containers of alcohol, see §
130.10.
§ 94.05 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   Special use permits may be applied for at the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
The issuance of said permits is totally discretionary with the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.050) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
94.01 through
94.05 of this chapter may be fined the sum of not more than $300 for each such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 9.100.060) (Ord. 95-2, passed - -1995; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-4-
2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   On-site beverage tastings
Violations
   
110.15   Sales prohibited
   
110.16   Consumption prohibited
   
110.17   Illegal possession or consumption by under-aged person
   
110.18   Gambling prohibited
   
110.19   Procuring alcoholic beverages
   
110.20   False representation to procure alcoholic beverages
   
110.21   Unlawful acts
Liquor Licensing
   
110.35   State law provisions adopted
   
110.36   License required; application; process; transfer
   
110.37   Conditions of license
   
110.38   Licensee’s responsibility
   
110.39   Suspension and revocation
   
110.40   Special event permits
   
110.41   Town Clerk/Treasurer; authority to approve certain applications
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Open alcohol containers, see §
130.10.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ON-SITE BEVERAGE TASTINGS.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. 44-3-301, the town authorizes alcoholic beverage tastings
for licensed retail liquor stores within the town subject to the limitations
contained in C.R.S. 44-3-301 and subject to the approval by the Local Licensing
Authority of a liquor tastings permit application in a form approved by the
Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2, Series 2007, passed 5-22-2007)
VIOLATIONS
§ 110.15 SALES PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or served to any intoxicated person or to
any person under 21 years of age. No fermented malt beverage shall be sold or
served to any intoxicated person or to any person under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.010) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 shall be permitted to consume alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises. No person under the age of 18 shall be
permitted to consume fermented malt beverages on the licensed premises.
   (B)   No person licensed to sell fermented malt beverages shall allow the
consumption or display of alcoholic liquor. The presence of alcoholic liquor on
the premises of such a licensee shall be prima facie evidence of possession of
alcoholic liquor for the purpose of sale; and the serving of any liquid for the
purpose of mixing with alcoholic liquors shall be prima facie evidence that
alcoholic liquor is being permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to
this chapter.
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be consumed on any licensed premises unless
the premises is licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises. No fermented malt beverage shall be consumed on any licensed premises
unless the premises is licensed to sell fermented malt beverages for
consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.020) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION BY UNDER-AGED PERSON.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ESTABLISHMENT. A business, firm, enterprise, service or fraternal
organization, club, institution, entity, group or residence, and any real
property, including buildings and improvements, connected therewith, and shall
also include any members, employees and occupants associated therewith.
      ETHYL ALCOHOL. Any substance which is or contains ethyl alcohol.
      POSSESSION OF ETHYL ALCOHOL. A person has or holds any amount of ethyl
alcohol anywhere on his or her person, or that a person owns or has custody of
ethyl alcohol or has ethyl alcohol within his or her immediate presence and
control.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any dwelling and its curtilage which is being used by a
natural person or natural persons for habitation and which is not open to the
public, and privately-owned real property which is not open to the public.
PRIVATE PROPERTY shall not include:
         (a)   Any establishment which has or is required to have a license
pursuant to C.R.S. Title 44, Art. 3;
         (b)   Any establishment which sells ethyl alcohol or upon which ethyl
alcohol is sold; or
         (c)   Any establishment which leases, rents or provides accommodations
to members of the public generally.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess or consume ethyl alcohol anywhere within the town. It shall further be
unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to consume alcohol outside of
the town limits who has been found within the town while manifesting any of the
characteristics commonly associated with ethyl alcohol intoxication or
impairment. Illegal possession or consumption of alcohol by an underage person
is a strict liability offense.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the offense described in this
section that the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed by a person under 21
years of age under the following circumstances:
      (1)   While such person was legally upon private property with the
knowledge and consent of the owner or legal possessor of such private property
and the ethyl alcohol was possessed or consumed with the consent of such
person’s parent or legal guardian who was present during such possession or
consumption; or
      (2)   When the existence of ethyl alcohol in a person’s body was due
solely to the ingestion of a confectionery which contained ethyl alcohol within
the limits prescribed by C.R.S. § 25-5-410(1)(i)(11) or the ingestion of any
substance which was manufactured, designed or intended primarily for a purpose
other than oral human ingestion, or the ingestion of any substance which was
manufactured, designed or intended solely for medicinal or hygienic purposes,
or solely from the ingestion of a beverage which contained less than 0.5% of
ethyl alcohol by weight.
      (3)   The possession or consumption of ethyl alcohol shall not constitute
a violation of this subchapter if such possession or consumption takes place
for religious purposes protected by the first amendment to the United States
Constitution.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence of a violation shall consist of:
      (1)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of 21 years and
possessed or consumed ethyl alcohol anywhere in the town; or
      (2)   Evidence that the defendant was under the age of 21 years and
manifested any of the characteristics commonly associated with ethyl alcohol
intoxication or impairment while present anywhere in the town.
   (E)   During any trial for a violation of division (B) above, any bottle,
can, or any other container with labeling indicating the contents of such
bottle, can or container shall be admissible into evidence, and the information
contained on any label on such bottle, can or other container shall be
admissible into evidence and shall not constitute hearsay. A jury or a judge,
whichever is appropriate, may consider the information upon such label in
determining whether the contents of the bottle, can or other container were
composed in whole or in part of ethyl alcohol. A label which identifies the
contents of any bottle, can, or other container as “beer”, “ale”, “malt
beverage”, “fermented malt beverage”, “malt liquor”, “wine”, “wine cooler”,
“champagne”, “whiskey” or “whisky”, “gin”, “vodka”, “tequila”, “schnapps”,
“brandy”, “cognac”, “liqueur”, “cordial”, “alcohol” or “liquor” shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the contents of the bottle, can or other
container were composed in whole or in part of ethyl alcohol.
   (F)   A parent or legal guardian of a person under 21 years of age may give,
or permit the possession and consumption of, ethyl alcohol to or by a person
under the age of 21 years under the conditions described in division (C)(1)
above. This division (F) shall not be construed to permit any establishment
which is or is required to be licensed pursuant to the state’s Beer Code,
state’s Liquor Code or the provisions of C.R.S. Title 12, Art. 48, or any
members, employees or occupants of any such establishment, to give, provide,
make available or sell ethyl alcohol to a person under 21 years of age.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or preclude
prosecution for any offense pursuant to any other applicable law or ordinance.
   (H)   The qualitative result of an alcohol test or tests shall be admissible
at the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (B) above upon
a showing that the device or devices used to conduct such test or tests have
been approved as accurate in detecting alcohol by the executive director of the
Department of Health.
   (I)   During any trial for a violation of this section, the Court shall take
judicial notice of methods of testing a person’s blood, breath, saliva or urine
for the presence of alcohol and of the operation of devices certified by the
Department of Health for testing a person’s blood, breath, saliva or urine for
the presence of alcohol. This division (I) shall not prevent the necessity of
establishing during a trial that the testing devices were working properly and
that such testing devices were properly operated. Nothing in this division (I)
shall preclude a defendant from offering evidence concerning the accuracy of
testing devices.
   (J)   No law enforcement officer shall enter upon any private property to
investigate any violation of this section without reasonable suspicion.
(Ord. 5.04.090, Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No gambling or any gambling device shall permitted on any licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.040) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 PROCURING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who is under the age of 21 years to
engage or utilize the services of any other person, whether for remuneration or
not, to procure or attempt to procure for such person under the age of 21
years, any article which the person himself or herself is forbidden by law to
procure, including but not limited to, malt, vinous or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   It is unlawful, whether for remuneration or not, for any person to
procure or attempt to procure for any person under the age of 21 years of age
any article which the person under 21 years of age himself or herself is
forbidden by law to procure, including, but not limited to, malt, vinous or
spirituous liquor.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to engage or
utilize the services of any other person, whether for remuneration or not, to
procure or attempt to procure for such person under the age of 18 years, any
article which the person himself or herself is forbidden by law to procure,
including, but not limited to, fermented malt beverages.
   (D)   It is unlawful, whether for remuneration or not, for any person to
procure or attempt to procure for any person under the age of 18 years any
articles which the person under 18 years of age himself or herself is forbidden
by law to procure, including, but not limited to, fermented malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.060) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 FALSE REPRESENTATION TO PROCURE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to obtain
malt, vinous or spirituous liquors by any method or make false statements or
furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or false registration card,
identification card, note or other document or present, furnish or exhibit such
document which was issued to a person other than the one presenting the same
for the purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of articles which he or
she is prohibited by any law or ordinance from obtaining, including, but not
limited to, malt, vinous or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to obtain
fermented malt beverages by any method or make false statements or furnish,
present or exhibit any fictitious or false registration card, identification
card or note or other document or present, furnish or exhibit such document
which was issued to a person other than the one presenting the same for the
purpose of procuring the sale, gift or delivery of articles which he or she is
prohibited from obtaining by any law or ordinance, including, but not limited
to, fermented malt beverages.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.070) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person or persons to carry or have open
containers of any malt, vinous or spirituous liquors or fermented malt
beverages in any vehicle in the town or on the grounds of any public or private
school, including public street, alleys, roads or highways, or upon property
owned by the town, except in licensed premises in the town.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person in
possession of one opened, but resealed container of partially consumed vinous
liquor which was lawfully removed from the licensed premises of an
establishment holding a license as set forth in C.R.S. § 44-3-323, as amended.
         (a)   Hotel and restaurant licensees who permit a patron to remove a
partially consumed bottle of vinous liquor shall reseal the bottle with the
original cork or other commercially manufactured stopper, and securely package
the resealed bottle in another sealable container (e.g., paper bag, box).
         (b)   The patron will place the container in the vehicle’s trunk, or
in an area within the vehicle that is not within reach of the driver.
   (B)   All law enforcement officers are authorized and empowered to arrest or
cause to be arrested with or without process, any person or persons found
violating the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.080) (Ord. 99-5.04.090, passed - -1999; Ord. 3, Series
2004, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
LIQUOR LICENSING
§ 110.35 STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The provisions of C.R.S. Title 44, Arts. 3-5, as amended, and the provisions
of Colorado Liquor Rules adopted under the authorization granted by C.R.S. §
44-3-202, as amended, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, sales,
hours of sale, distribution and consumption of alcohol beverages are adopted
and made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.010) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982)
§ 110.36 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; PROCESS; TRANSFER.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to sell, vend, deal in
or dispose of by gift, sale or otherwise, or keep or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquors within the town without a license to do so as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.020)
   (B)   License application.
      (1)   General. Every application for a license to sell alcoholic liquors
shall state the name of the applicant, his or her age, representations as to
his or her character with such references as the Board of Trustees may require,
his or her citizenship, the type of license applied for, the business in
connection with which the proposed license will operate and its location,
whether the applicant is owner and operator of the business, how long he or she
has been in business at that place, and such other information as the Board of
Trustees may require from time to time. In addition to containing such
information, the application shall be in the form prescribed by the state’s
Department of Revenue and shall be verified and filed with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.030)
      (2)   False statements. It is unlawful for any person to make any false
statements in an application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.040)
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   Each application for a license filed with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall be accompanied by a license fee in an amount set by resolution.
         (b)   If the application is rejected, the license fee shall refunded.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.050)
   (C)   Investigation and hearing. The Board of Trustees shall cause an
investigation to be made of all facts set forth in the application. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of the
license. After the investigation and hearing, the Board of Trustees, in its
discretion, shall grant or refuse the application. No license shall be issued
until approved by the state licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.060)
   (D)   Term. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.070)
   (E)   Transfer. Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and for
the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another person or place without approval of the Board of Trustees. Any transfer
of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of the license and a
transfer of stock without prior Board of Trustees approval is a ground for
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.080)
(Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license is subject to all the provisions of this subchapter and
any other applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   All premises where any license under this subchapter is granted shall
be open to inspection by any police officer, health officer or other properly
designated officer or employee of the town at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.090) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982)
§ 110.38 LICENSEE’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any
employee on the licensed premises authorized to sell alcoholic liquors there is
deemed the act of the licensee as well and the licensee shall be liable to all
penalties provided by ordinance and law equally with the employee.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.100) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982)
§ 110.39 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Board of Trustees may either suspend or revoke any license upon a
finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to alcoholic liquors. No suspension or
revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity to be heard. However, any license may be temporarily suspended
without notice for a period of not more than 15 days pending any prosecution,
investigations or public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 5.12.110) (Ord. 82-13, passed - -1982)
§ 110.40 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS.
   The Board of Trustees, acting as the Local Licensing Authority, may issue a
special event permit for the sale of malt, spirituous or vinous liquor to
organizations qualifying under C.R.S. § 44-5-102. The Board of Trustees may
elect to issue special events permits without notifying the state licensing
authority to obtain its approval or disapproval of applications for special
events permits.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 10-10-2011)
§ 110.41 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER; AUTHORITY TO APPROVE CERTAIN APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer may approve the following types of
applications when there have been no violations of the state’s Liquor Code,
being C.R.S. Title 44, Art. 3, by the applicant within the preceding year, and
when the Clerk/Treasurer finds there is no other derogatory information
regarding the licensee, its partners, officers, directors, managers or
shareholders that would prohibit the licensee from holding a liquor license:
      (1)   Temporary permit;
      (2)   Change of corporate structure;
      (3)   Changes of trade name or corporate name;
      (4)   Manager registration;
      (5)   Renewal applications; and
      (6)   Special event permits. Prior to granting a special event permit,
the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall review information on file with the state
licensing authority to confirm compliance with C.R.S. § 44-5-105, which
restricts the number of permits issued to an organization in a calendar year.
   (B)   When reviewing such applications, the Town Clerk/Treasurer may request
from the Police Department a report concerning the matter applied for in the
application. It shall be the affirmative duty of the Police Department to
notify the Town Clerk/Treasurer of any violations that involve establishments
holding a liquor license.
   (C)   (1)   If, upon review of the application, the Town Clerk/Treasurer
determines that the application is complete and there is no matter raised by
the application or any report obtained in connection therewith that should be
referred to the Board of Trustees for decision, the Town Clerk/Treasurer may
administratively approve the application.
      (2)   If, however, the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s investigation discloses any
proven or alleged violations of the Liquor Code, being C.R.S. Title 44, Art. 3,
or other derogatory information as described above, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
schedule action on the application for review by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for scheduling and
providing notice of any hearing required to be conducted under the state’s
Liquor Code, being C.R.S. Title 44, Art. 3.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-6-2005; Ord. 2020-4, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
110.17 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $300.
(Ord. 5.04.090, Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 111: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
Cultivation, Product and Testing Facilities and Retail Stores
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Certain establishments prohibited
Medical Marijuana
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Prohibited behavior
   
111.17   Patients and primary caregivers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Marijuana land uses, see § 150.040.
   Marijuana use and drug paraphernalia, see §
130.11.
CULTIVATION, PRODUCT AND TESTING
FACILITIES AND RETAIL STORES
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis whether growing or
not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the
plant, its seeds, or its resin, including marijuana concentrate. MARIJUANA does
not include industrial hemp, nor does it include fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, sterilized seed of the
plant that is incapable of germination, or the weight of any other ingredient
combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink
or other product.
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, products or materials of any kind that
are used, intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing or containing marijuana, or for ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human body.
   MARIJUANA CLUB. A business, occupation or other commercial enterprise that
allows members and their guests to consume marijuana or marijuana products on
the premises.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS. Concentrated marijuana products and marijuana products
that are comprised of marijuana and other ingredients and are intended for use
or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible products, ointments and
tinctures.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
limited liability company or organization, or a manager, agent, owner,
director, servant, officer or employee thereof.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. A marijuana cultivation facility, a marijuana
testing facility, a marijuana product manufacturing facility, a retail
marijuana store or a marijuana club.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITIES. An entity licensed to cultivate,
prepare and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to other marijuana cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER. An entity licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana stores, but not to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE. An entity licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. An entity licensed to analyze and certify
the safety and potency of marijuana.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 2013-2, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 111.02 CERTAIN ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or permit to
be operated any retail marijuana business within the town, and all such uses
are prohibited in any location within the town, including any area hereinafter
annexed to the town.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 2013-2, passed 6-3-2013) Penalty, see §
111.99
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Marijuana that is grown and sold for a purpose authorized
by Colorado Constitution Art. XVIII, § 14.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS. A medical marijuana store, medical marijuana
products manufacturer or a medical marijuana cultivation facility.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. A person licensed pursuant to the
state’s Medical Marijuana Code to operate a business known as an optional
premises grow facility in order to grow and cultivate marijuana for a purpose
authorized by Colorado Constitution Art. XVIII, § 14, and which a municipality
is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PRODUCTS MANUFACTURER. A person licensed pursuant to the
state’s Medical Marijuana Code to operate a business known as a medical
marijuana-infused products manufacturing license, and which a municipality is
authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA STORE. A person authorized to be licensed to operate a
business as described in the state’s Medical Marijuana Code that sells medical
marijuana to registered patients or primary caregivers, as defined in Colorado
Constitution Art. XVIII, § 14, but is not a primary caregiver, and which a
municipality is authorized to prohibit as a matter of law.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
limited liability company or organization, or a manager, agent, owner,
director, servant, officer or employee thereof.
   PATIENT. Has the meaning provided in Colorado Constitution Art. XVIII, § 14
(1)(c).
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. Has the meaning provided in Colorado Constitution Art.
XVIII, § 14(1)(f).
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 111.16 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or permit to
be operated a medical marijuana business, and all such uses are prohibited in
any location within the town, or within any area hereinafter annexed to the
town.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 6-21-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 PATIENTS AND PRIMARY CAREGIVERS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit, regulate or
otherwise impair the use of medical marijuana by patients, as defined by the
Colorado Constitution, or the provision of medical marijuana by a primary
caregiver to a patient in accordance with the Colorado Constitution, and
consistent with C.R.S. § 25-1.5-106, and rules promulgated thereunder, as the
same statute and rules may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of §§
111.01 and
111.02 of this chapter shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   By a fine of not more than $300;
      (2)   Each and every day a violation of the provisions of §§
111.01 and
111.02 of this chapter is committed, exists or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense;
      (3)   The town is specifically authorized to seek an injunction,
abatement, restitution or any other remedy necessary to prevent, enjoin, abate
or remove the violation; and
      (4)   Any remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law or in
equity.
   (C)   A violation of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.17 of this chapter shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   By a fine of not more than $300;
      (2)   Each and every day a violation of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.17 of this chapter is committed, exists or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense;
      (3)   The town is specifically authorized to seek an injunction,
abatement, restitution or any other remedy necessary to prevent, enjoin, abate
or remove the violation; and
      (4)   Any remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law or in
equity.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 2013-1, passed 3-4-2013; Ord. 2020-2,
passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose of provisions
   
112.02   All solicitations prohibited by posting of “No Solicitation” or “No
Trespassing” sign
   
112.03   Attempt to obtain invitation
   
112.04   Sales on public property
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens and residents of the town through regulation and appropriate
prohibitions of certain activities of solicitors and vendors.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 ALL SOLICITATIONS PROHIBITED BY POSTING OF “NO SOLICITATION” OR “NO
TRESPASSING” SIGN.
   (A)   No person shall enter or remain upon any public or private premises or
in any office building in the town, not having been requested or invited by the
occupant thereof, for the purpose of soliciting the immediate or future
purchase or sale of goods, services, or any other thing of value, or for the
purpose of soliciting any gift or donation, when a “No Solicitation” sign or
“No Trespassing” sign is posted at or near the entrance to such premises.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all solicitations, including without
limitation, those that are by a religious, charitable, school or civic
organization, or other organization eligible for exemption under I.R.C. § 501
(c).
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INVITATION.
   No person shall attempt to obtain, by telephone or otherwise, an invitation
to visit any private residence or other private premises for the purpose of
soliciting the purchase or sale of goods, services or any other thing of value,
by knowingly making a false or deceptive representation or statement.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 SALES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any goods, services or any other
thing of value from or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park or property owned
or controlled by the public or by the town, except as may be authorized by the
Board of Trustees or its designee.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal offense, punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted
by any such person shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Administration; delegation of powers and authority
   
113.04   Request for relief
   
113.05   Non-compliance not excused for failure to enforce
   
113.06   Compliance with law
   
113.07   Inconsistencies with federal or state law
Conditions and Regulations
   
113.20   Retained rights and authorities
   
113.21   Notices
   
113.22   Indemnity
   
113.23   Liability insurance
   
113.24   Furnishing of reports
   
113.25   Books and records
   
113.26   Customer response and service standards
   
113.27   Notifications to subscribers; service installation
   
113.28   Billing practices
   
113.29   Installations, outages and service calls
   
113.30   Notifications to subscribers
   
113.31   Billing credit/refunds for service outages, interruptions or
unsolicited service
   
113.32   Special service requirements
   
113.33   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited
   
113.34   Use and return of equipment
   
113.35   Security deposits
   
113.36   Service inquiry logs
   
113.37   Restoration of a subscriber’s property
   
113.38   Disconnection for non-payment
   
113.39   Voluntary disconnections and downgrades
   
113.40   Protection of subscriber privacy
   
113.41   Resolution of complaints/inquiries
   
113.42   Use of streets and public ways
   
113.43   Construction standards
   
113.44   System expansion
   
113.45   Permits and licenses
   
113.46   Construction, fire and safety codes
Requirements
   
113.60   Franchise required; agreement
   
113.61   Extent of grant of franchise
   
113.62   Franchise term; application; fees
   
113.63   Assignment of franchise
   
113.64   Public, educational and governmental access
   
113.65   Public service
   
113.66   Technical standards
   
113.67   Default
   
113.68   Federal legislation, rules and regulations; franchise subject to
amendment
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Establish a local policy concerning cable television;
   (B)   Establish franchise procedures and standards which encourage the
growth and development of cable systems which assure that cable systems are
responsive to the needs and interests of the town;
   (C)   Establish guidelines for the exercise of local authority with respect
to the regulation of cable systems;
   (D)   Establish an orderly process for franchise renewal which protects
cable operators against unfair denials of renewal where an operator’s past
performance and proposal for future performance meet the standards set by the
FCC and this chapter;
   (E)   Promote competition in cable communications and minimize unnecessary
regulations that would impose undue burdens on cable systems;
   (F)   Create a set of regulations, standards and procedures for cable
operators;
   (G)   Create a comprehensive customer service and consumer protection policy
for cable operators;
   (H)   Provide for access and inspection of a cable operator’s books and
records in order to monitor compliance with local, state and federal laws, and
any franchise agreement;
   (I)   Provide a thorough construction and installation policy for a cable
operator’s system;
   (J)   Provide for the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town
in light of the cable operator’s construction, operation and maintenance;
   (K)   Create a thorough procedure for collecting and monitoring franchise
fees;
   (L)   Create a thorough default and revocation procedure for franchised
operators; and
   (M)   Create a performance review procedure in order to assist the town in
its periodic evaluation of a franchised operator’s performance.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.010) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. Another person or entity who owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by or is under common ownership or control with, the person or
entity.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity submitting an application or proposal to the
town for a franchise to operate a cable system under the terms and conditions
of this chapter and any state or federal regulations.
   AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT. Equipment supplied by a cable operator which enhances
or assists in the reception or provision of cable service.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE or BASIC SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and/or any PEG channels
required to be carried pursuant to applicable law or a franchise.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of Haxtun.
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS ACT or CABLE ACT. 47 U.S.C. §§ 541 et seq. or
corresponding legislation in any future federal communications legislation.
   CABLE OPERATOR or OPERATOR. Any person or entity which:
      (1)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
      (2)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of a cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of:
         (a)   Video programming; or
         (b)   Other programming service.
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
of such video programming or other programming service. This includes all forms
of cable service whether provided by a cable operator or through a DBS, MDS,
MMDS or a SMATV system, if the service otherwise qualifies as a cable system;
provided, this definition shall not be construed to prohibit any other lawful
service that may be provided by a cable operator.
   CABLE SYSTEM or CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A facility consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video, voice and data programming, and which is provided to multiple
subscribers within the town; provided, this shall not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management, unless the
facility uses any public way or public right-of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of the Cable Communications Act, being 47 U.S.C. § 551;
except that, the facility shall be considered a cable system to the extent the
facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; or
      (4)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel (as defined by the FCC).
   CHARGE. A one-time or non-regularly occurring cost paid by the subscriber,
and which is associated with the installation, maintenance, service or repair
of the cable service.
   CONVERTER. Any device, separate and apart from the subscriber’s receiver,
that will permit a subscriber to view or otherwise use signals delivered at
designated dial locations or other reception and use allocations as may be
applicable and required for the practical use of the signal.
   CUSTOMER. A subscriber or user of the services and/or facilities of the
cable system provided by a cable operator.
   DBS SYSTEM or DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE SYSTEM. The delivery and/or
provision of cable services from a satellite to a subscriber through the use of
a small earth or satellite station.
   DROP. A small branch of cable or other transmitting medium which connects
the terminals on the back of the subscriber’s receiver to the feeder cable or
future technical equivalent on the street, easement, rights-of-way or public
way.
   EASEMENT. Any public easement or other compatible use created by dedication
or by other means, to the town for public utility or other purposes including
cable television. EASEMENT includes private easement used for the provision of
cable service.
   ENTITY. A partnership, joint venture, corporation or limited liability
company.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE. The initial authorization, amendment or renewal granted by the
town which authorizes the construction and operation of a cable system.
   FRANCHISE EXPIRATION. The date of expiration, or the end of the term of a
franchise, as provided under a franchise agreement.
   FRANCHISE FEE. A fee or charge that the town requires as payment for the
privilege of using the streets, rights-of-way, public ways and easements of the
town in order to construct, maintain and operate a franchised cable system.
   FRANCHISED OPERATOR. A person or entity that is awarded a franchise by the
town to construct and operate a cable system, within all or a part of the town.
The term FRANCHISED OPERATOR specifically includes the term CABLE OPERATOR.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. The town.
   GROSS REVENUE. All cash, credit, property of any kind or nature, or other
consideration received directly or indirectly by the cable operator, its
affiliates, subsidiaries, parent or any person in which the cable operator has
a financial interest, arising from or attributable to the sale or exchange of
cable services or any non-cable services by the cable operator within the town
or in any way derived from the operation of its system, including, but not
limited to, monthly fees charged to subscribers for basic service; monthly fees
charged to subscribers for any optional service; monthly fees charged to
subscribers for any disconnection, any reconnection fees; leased channel fees;
fees, payments or other consideration received from programmers; converter
rentals or sales; studio rental, production equipment and personnel fees;
advertising revenues; revenues from home shopping channels; and the sale,
exchange or cablecast of any programming developed on or for community service
channels or institutional users.
   LATE CHARGE. A charge which is added to a subscriber’s account or bill for
non-payment of a previously due and delinquent account.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Haxtun.
   MDS SYSTEM or MULTIPOINT DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. A system which transmits (via
super high frequency) specialized programming or data or facsimile transmission
to subscribers as authorized by the FCC.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those services those service conditions which
are within the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to,
natural disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages
and severe, unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to,
special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular, peak or
seasonal demand periods and maintenance or upgrade of the system.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a cable operator makes available
to all subscribers generally.
   PAY-PER-VIEW or PREMIUM CHANNEL. The delivery over the cable system of audio
and/or video signals in an unintelligible form to subscribers for a fee or
charge, over and above the charge for standard or basic service, on a per
program or per channel basis where the unintelligible or unusable form for
viewing is made intelligible only to those subscribers paying a separate fee or
charge for the viewing or use of the signals.
   PEG CHANNEL. A public, educational or governmental channel which is carried
on a cable system, but which is not part of any institutional network. For
purposes of this definition, “institutional network” means a communication
network which is constructed or operated by a cable operator and which is
generally available only to subscribers who are not residential subscribers.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any public street, public place or right-of-way now or later
dedicated to the public use within the area served by a cable operator.
   RATE. The monthly, bi-monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, annual or other
periodic price paid by a subscriber in order to receive cable service.
   REPORTING QUARTER. A cable operator’s fiscal quarter as reported to the
town. If a cable operator does not report to or notify the town concerning the
dates of its fiscal quarters, then the REPORTING QUARTERS for a cable operator
shall be considered to be the periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September and December of each calendar year.
   REVOCATION, TERMINATION or NON-RENEWAL. An official act by the town which
lawfully removes, repeals or rescinds a previously approved authorization for a
franchised operator to provide cable service.
   SERVICE TIER. A category of cable service or other services provided by a
cable operator, and for which a separate rate is charged by the cable operator.
   SMATV SYSTEM or SATELLITE MASTER ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM. A private cable
system not crossing any public rights-of-way and which is located on private
property and serving private dwellings.
   STATE. The State of Colorado.
   SUBSCRIBER. A person lawfully receiving cable service delivered by a cable
operator.
   TOWN. The Town of Haxtun, Colorado.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Administrator of the Town of Haxtun.
   USER. A person or organization utilizing a cable system and/or its equipment
for purposes of production and/or transmission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.020) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.03 ADMINISTRATION; DELEGATION OF POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   Unless prohibited by federal or state law, the Board of Trustees may
delegate its powers and authorities with respect to a cable operator to one or
more duly authorized representatives of the town, including the Mayor, the Town
Administrator, a cable advisory committee or an outside consultant; provided,
the Board of Trustees may never delegate its franchising or revocation power to
another person.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.030) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.04 REQUEST FOR RELIEF.
   (A)   Any cable operator may file a written petition, at any time, with the
town requesting relief from one or more provisions of this chapter. The relief
requested may specifically include the delay in implementation (as to the
petitioning cable operator only) of one or more provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive any relief from one or more of the provisions of
this chapter, a cable operator must satisfactorily demonstrate to the Board of
Trustees that at least one of the following facts exist:
      (1)   The provision and/or requirement is expressly prohibited by federal
law, the FCC or state law;
      (2)   The provision in question materially affects, and is in conflict
with an expressed right that is specifically noted in an existing franchise
agreement (but only for the term of the existing franchise); or
      (3)   The imposition of the provisions and/or requirements will create an
undue economic hardship on a cable operator so as to imperil or eliminate a
cable operator’s ability to provide cable service to a majority of current
subscribers.
   (C)   (1)   As an alternative to requesting relief, a cable operator may
petition for clarification as to the precise intent and effect that one or more
provisions or sections of this chapter has on the petitioning cable operator.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees grants relief to a franchised operator,
then the franchise agreement shall be amended to reflect the exact extent of
the relief.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.040) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.05 NON-COMPLIANCE NOT EXCUSED FOR FAILURE TO ENFORCE.
   A cable operator shall not be excused from complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter by any failure of the town on any one or more
occasions to seek, or insist upon compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.050) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.06 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   (A)   Any cable operator, its assignee or transferee shall be subject to,
and expected to comply with:
      (2)   All ordinances in effect within the town including the ordinance
codified in this chapter, to the extent that the cable operator has not
received exemption or relief;
      (2)   All federal and state laws, and all rules and regulations issued by
all applicable regulatory agencies; and
      (3)   All lawful exercise of the town’s police power.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent a cable operator from
exercising any, and all, of its administrative and legal rights as to the
constitutionality, applicability and enforceability of this chapter or any
later amendments.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.060) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.07 INCONSISTENCIES WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW.
   If any provision or section of this chapter is inconsistent with any
provision or section of a federal or state rule, regulation or law, then the
federal or state rule, regulation or law shall control.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.070) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 113.20 RETAINED RIGHTS AND AUTHORITIES.
   Subject to preemption by the FCC or any other federal or state governmental
entity or agency, the town retains the authority for:
   (A)   The regulation and control of any cable system within the geographical
limits of the town and within the limits prescribed by applicable law;
   (B)   The award and grant of a cable franchise subsequent to review of an
application or proposal by the Board of Trustees;
   (C)   Subject to the provisions of §
113.06 of this chapter and any relief or exemption granted with respect to
those provisions, the amendment or repeal of all or part of this chapter;
   (D)   The amendment of a franchise by mutual agreement of the Board of
Trustees and the holder of the franchise;
   (E)   The regulations of any and all rates and charges associated with the
provision of any services offered over the system. If the town chooses to
regulate rates the town shall abide by all applicable state and federal laws
and regulations including the regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission found at 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.900 through 76.987 et seq., as may from
time to time be amended;
   (F)   The enforcement of all laws and regulations relating to cable customer
service practices and consumer protection; and
   (G)   The enforcement of all laws and regulations relating to the technical
and operational standards associated with providing cable television services.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.080) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.21 NOTICES.
   (A)   The town and each cable operator shall provide the other party with
the name and address of the contact person designated to receive notices,
filings, reports, records, documents and other correspondence.
   (B)   (1)   All notices shall be delivered to each party’s contact person by
certified mail, return receipt requested, personal service with signed receipt
of delivery or overnight with receipt verification.
      (2)   All other filings, reports, records, documents and other
correspondence may be delivered by any permissible means including, but not
limited to: facsimile transmission (“faxing”); personal service, overnight mail
or package delivery.
      (3)   The delivery of all notices, reports, records and other
correspondence shall be deemed to have occurred at the time of receipt (unless
otherwise designated by state law).
      (4)   The designation of the contact person for notice purposes may be
contained within any franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.090) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.22 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Each cable operator shall indemnify, defend and hold the town, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees (collectively the
“indemnified parties”) harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims,
causes of action, actions, liability, demands, damages, judgments, settlements,
losses, expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) and costs of any nature
that any of the indemnified parties may at any time, directly or indirectly,
suffer, sustain or incur arising out of, based upon or in any way connected
with the grant of a franchise to a cable operator, the operation of the cable
operator’s cable system and/or the act and/or omissions of the cable operator
or its agents or employees, whether or not pursuant to this chapter or any
franchise granted hereunder.
   (B)   This indemnity shall apply, without limitation, to any action or cause
of action for invasion of privacy, defamation, anti-trust, errors an omissions,
theft, fire, violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade
names, service mark, patent or any other right of any person whether or not any
act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this
chapter or any franchise agreement, but shall exclude any claim or action
arising out of the acts of omissions of indemnified parties or related to any
town programming or other access programming for which the cable operator is
not legally responsible.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.100) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.23 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Within 60 days following the grant of a franchise, a cable operator shall
obtain, pay all premiums for and make available to the town at its request
copies of the following insurance policies:
   (A)   A general comprehensive liability insurance policy insuring,
indemnifying, defending and saving harmless the indemnified parties from any
and all claims by any person whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a
person or persons occasioned by the operations of the cable operator under any
franchise granted hereunder or alleged to have been so caused or occurred with
a minimum coverage of $1,000,000 for personal injury or death of one person,
and $2,000,000 for personal injury or death of any two or more persons in any
one occurrence;
   (B)   Property damage insurance for property damage occasioned by the
operation of the cable operator under any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter, or alleged to have been so caused or occurred with minimum coverage of
$1,000,000 for property damage to the property of any one person and $2,000,000
for property damage to the property of two or more persons in any one
occurrence;
   (C)   Workers compensation insurance as provided by applicable local, state
and federal laws;
   (D)   All insurance policies called for in this chapter shall be in a form
satisfactory to the town with a company licensed to do business in the state
with a rating by A.M. Best & Co. of not less that “A” and shall require 30
days’ written notice of any cancellations to both the town and the cable
operator. The cable operator shall, in the event of any such cancellation
notice obtain, pay all premiums for and file with the town, written evidence of
the issuance of replacement policies within 30 days following receipt by the
town or the cable operator of any notice of cancellation; and
   (E)   It shall be the obligation of the cable operator to properly notify
the town of any pending litigation that would be likely to effect the
indemnified parties.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.110) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.24 FURNISHING OF REPORTS.
   Upon written request of the town, a cable operator shall furnish, at no cost
to the town, copies of any or all filings with the FCC and the United States
Copyright Office within 30 days of the request.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.120) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.25 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   A cable operator shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts
and records concerning the business and operations of the cable system.
   (B)   In addition:
      (1)   The town shall have the right, on seven days’ written notice, to
review at the cable operator’s local office all records pertaining to a cable
operator’s cable operations with respect to the town which are necessary to the
enforcement of this chapter or an applicable franchise. Any review, unless
mutually agreed upon or judicially ordered, should occur within the cable
operator’s regular office hours. Payroll information of employees and corporate
officers within the company may only be requested in the aggregate on a summary
prepared by the cable operator. The town acknowledges the sensitivity of these
records, and will request this information only on as needed basis, and will
treat this information as confidential and proprietary to the fullest extent
allowed by law;
      (2)   The town shall have the right to hire, at its own expense, an
independent certified public accountant, or other business or financial expert,
to review the books and records of a cable operator pertaining to revenue
information;
      (3)   A false entry in the books and/or records of a cable operator of a
material and substantial fact shall constitute a material violation of this
chapter. Erroneous entries shall not constitute a material violation if made in
good faith; and
      (4)   If after a review or audit of a cable operator’s records, it is
discovered that the cable operator has underpaid the town by an amount that
exceeds 3% of the total amount paid for any reporting quarter, then the town
may require the cable operator to reimburse the town for the actual cost of the
audit, in addition to the amount of underpayment.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.130) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.26 CUSTOMER RESPONSE AND SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   A cable operator shall maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.
   (B)   In addition:
      (1)   Trained company representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours;
      (2)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by a
service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained company representative on the next business day;
      (3)   A cable operator shall comply with any applicable FCC standards
concerning customer response, installations, outages and service calls; and
      (4)   In order to assist the town in assessing the resolution of customer
service requests, inquiries and complaints, a cable operator shall be required
to keep and maintain service logs as required by the FCC, subject to any
limitations imposed by state or federal law (including any subscriber privacy
limitations).
(Prior Code, § 13.20.140) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.27 NOTIFICATIONS TO SUBSCRIBERS; SERVICE INSTALLATION.
   A cable operator shall provide written notification containing information
as required by the FCC at the time of installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.150) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.28 BILLING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be fully
itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic, tiered and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
   (B)   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
   (C)   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either the
customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the request or 30 days,
whichever is earlier.
   (D)   Credits for service will be issued no later than the customer’s next
billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.160) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.29 INSTALLATIONS, OUTAGES AND SERVICE CALLS.
   Under normal operating conditions, each of the following four standards will
be met no less than 95% of the time measured on a quarterly basis.
   (A)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed. “Standard” installations are those that are
located up to 1,000 feet from the existing distribution system.
   (B)   Excluding conditions beyond its control, a cable operator will begin
working on “service interruptions” promptly and in no event later than 24 hours
after the interruption becomes known. A cable operator must begin actions to
correct other service problems the next business day after notification of the
service problem. Except in emergency situations, all service problems shall be
handled or corrected within 48 hours from the time the cable operator first
received notification (except for intermittent problems not present at the time
of the service call).
   (C)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations, service calls
and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. A cable operator
may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of a customer.
   (D)   A cable operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
   (E)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.170) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.30 NOTIFICATIONS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   A cable operator shall provide written information on each of the following
areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to all
subscribers, and at any time upon request:
   (A)   Products and services offered, itemizing the basic, premium and
informational services offered, as well as the service tiers offered;
   (B)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
   (C)   Installation and service maintenance charges and policies;
   (D)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
   (E)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system;
   (F)   Billing and complaint procedures, including:
      (1)   The address and telephone number of the cable operator’s local
office;
      (2)   Payment due and delinquent dates;
      (3)   Amount or percentage of late charges, if any; and
      (4)   Resolution procedures for billing disputes, complaints and
inquiries.
   (G)   The customer service hours and telephone number(s);
   (H)   The method of securing a voluntary disconnection;
   (I)   The extent of the credit/refund policy;
   (J)   The equipment use and return policy together with any required
security deposits;
   (K)   The additional rights of blind, hearing-impaired or ambulatory
impaired customers; and
   (L)   Notification of a subscriber’s ability to purchase or lease from the
cable operator a lock box, parental control mechanism, or other device which
will prohibit the viewing of a particular cable service during a period
determined by the subscriber. Subscribers will be notified of any changes in
rates, programming services, channel positions or service tiers as soon as
possible through announcements on the cable system and in writing. Notice must
be given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of these changes if the
change is within the control of the cable operator. In addition, the cable
operator shall notify subscribers 30 days in advance of any significant changes
in the other information required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.180) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.31 BILLING CREDIT/REFUNDS FOR SERVICE OUTAGES, INTERRUPTIONS OR
UNSOLICITED SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   A cable operator shall provide a subscriber with credit or a
rebate for a service outage or interruption exceeding eight hours in duration
beyond the time that the customer notified the cable operator of the outage.
      (2)   The credit for purposes of determining the amount of the credit or
rebate shall be deemed to be equivalent to or the same as a 24-hour service
outage.
      (3)   No credit or rebate shall be required where the outage was due to
matters beyond the immediate control of the cable operator.
   (B)   In addition:
      (1)   For notifications by the customer after hours, these credit refund
requirements shall only apply if three customers have provided notice in a
given area;
      (2)   In the case of a regional or area outage, all affected subscribers
shall be due a credit or refund if the cable operator is able to reasonably
determine the subscribers affected. If the cable operator is not able to
reasonably determine the subscribers affected by a regional or area outage, a
credit or refund shall be given to all customers affected by the outage who
make a claim for credit or refund within 30 days of the outage; and
      (3)   In the case of a charge for unsolicited service, a cable operator
shall provide a subscriber with an adjustment or billing credit on the next
available billing statement, and the subscriber shall not be considered
delinquent for failure to pay a charge for unsolicited service.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.190) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.32 SPECIAL SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   A cable operator shall comply with all federal and state laws and
regulations concerning special service requirements for disabled, sight or
hearing impaired or ambulatory impaired customers.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.200) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.33 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   A cable operator shall not, as to rules, regulations, rates,
changes, provision of service or use of a provider’s facilities and equipment,
make or allow, or grant undue preference or advantage to any person, nor
subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage on the basis of age, race,
creed, color, sex, national origin, handicap, religious affiliation or location
of residence.
      (2)   Cable operators shall not deny cable service, or the extension of
cable service, to any group of potential residential cable subscribers because
of the income of the residents of the local area in which such group resides.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not, however, prohibit a cable
operator from:
      (1)   Offering a promotional or incentive discount rate or charge as long
as the rate or charge does not exceed 120 days in length;
      (2)   Denying service based on location of residence, if that residence
is outside the parameters for line extension as detailed in a franchise
agreement, if applicable;
      (3)   Implementing a carefully designated no-frills service tier for
“lower income”, and/or fixed income individuals; and/or
      (4)   Making agreements or entering into cable service agreements with
multiple dwelling unit owners, including hotel, motel and mobile park owners,
to provide cable service under a bulk billing or other type of arrangement.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.210) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.34 USE AND RETURN OF EQUIPMENT.
   A customer shall maintain any equipment rented or leased from a cable
operator in good working order, and operate the equipment only in the manner
specified by the cable operator or the manufacturer of the equipment.
   (A)   If needed for proper operation, or requested by a customer, a cable
operator shall deliver to a customer written instructions detailing the proper
use of rented, loaned or purchased equipment. A cable operator may comply with
this section by delivering the manufacturer’s instructions to a customer.
   (B)   A customer shall totally and fully reimburse a cable operator for any
damage to a cable operator’s equipment that is due to the customer’s failure to
properly maintain and operate the equipment.
   (C)   A customer shall be relieved from any responsibility for reimbursing a
cable operator for equipment which malfunctions or does not operate due to a
hidden or latent defect in the equipment or for which fails to operate or
improperly operates due to natural occurrences conditioned by the normal wear
and tear of the equipment, of for equipment damaged or destroyed by an act of
nature.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.220) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.35 SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A cable operator is not required to seek a security deposit from a
customer for use or rental of the cable operator’s equipment.
   (B)   However, if a security deposit is charged:
      (1)   A cable operator shall comply with any, and all, applicable state
statutes, rules or regulations concerning security deposits. If the state has
no statutes, rules or regulations concerning the security deposit for a
particular piece of equipment, then the cable operator shall be prohibited from
charging any security deposit for equipment which exceeds the replacement cost
to the cable operator;
      (2)   A cable operator shall be prohibited from charging any security
deposit for cable service which exceeds twice the basic monthly rate. This
shall be in addition to any other security deposit allowable under this
division (B); and
      (3)   A cable operator shall return a security deposit if the equipment
is returned in as good condition as when provided to the customer, normal wear
and tear excepted.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.230) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.36 SERVICE INQUIRY LOGS.
   (A)   In order to assist the town in assessing the resolution of customer
service requests, inquiries and complaints, a cable operator shall be required
to keep and maintain service logs, subject to any limitations imposed by state
or federal law (including any subscriber privacy limitations).
   (B)   At a minimum, the service inquiry logs should contain the following:
      (1)   The date and time of the initial receipt of a service request,
inquiry or complaint, together with the date and time of the initial response;
      (2)   The nature of the matter;
      (3)   The precise action taken by a cable operator in order to resolve
the matter; and
      (4)   Whether the matter was resolved by allowing a credit or refund of
some sort. In addition to any other right of inspection that the town may
possess, it shall have the right to review and inspect a compilation of the
logs. The town shall not have the right of review or inspection for any logs or
any information contained within the logs that are otherwise protected by state
or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.240) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.37 RESTORATION OF A SUBSCRIBER’S PROPERTY.
   At any time a cable operator disturbs the yard, residence or other real or
personal property of a subscriber, the cable operator shall ensure that the
subscriber’s property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a substantially
similar condition as that in existence prior to the disturbance by the cable
operator. The costs associated with both the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the cable operator. The
requirements imposed upon the cable operator extend to any subcontractor or
independent contractor employed by the cable operator.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.250) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.38 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   A subscriber shall be subject to disconnection for non-payment if the
customer fails to comply with reasonable payment policies disclosed in advance
to the subscriber.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.260) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.39 VOLUNTARY DISCONNECTIONS AND DOWNGRADES.
   (A)   A subscriber may at any time request that a particular service tier,
pay channel, premium channel, informational service or the entire cable service
be disconnected.
   (B)   In addition, where different levels of service are offered by a cable
operator, a subscriber may request a downgrade from a particular level of
service to a less comprehensive or less expensive level of service.
Disconnections or downgrades shall be effective according to reasonable
policies disclosed in advance to the subscriber.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.270) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.40 PROTECTION OF SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   A cable operator shall abide by any, and all, subscriber privacy rules or
regulations of the federal, state or local governments.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.280) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.41 RESOLUTION OF COMPLAINTS/INQUIRIES.
   A cable operator is required to develop a comprehensive complaint/inquiry
resolution policy that is consistent with the rules and regulations outlined in
this chapter. The town may establish a neutral third-party appeal process to
handle complaints/inquiries that are not satisfactorily resolved at the cable
operator level.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.290) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.42 USE OF STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
   All wires, conduits, cable (coaxial, fiber or functional equivalent) and
other property and facilities of a cable operator shall be located, installed
and maintained so as not to endanger or unnecessarily interfere with usual and
customary use, traffic and travel upon the town streets, rights-of-way,
easements and public ways.
   (A)   If a cable operator’s system creates a hazardous or unsafe condition
or an unreasonable interference with property, then the cable operator shall at
its own expense voluntarily, or upon request of the town, remove or move, as
appropriate, that part of the system that creates the hazardous condition.
   (B)   A cable operator shall not place equipment where it will interfere
with the rights of property owners or with other public utility services or any
other service facility that benefits the town or its residents’ health, safety
or welfare.
   (C)   A cable operator shall, at its expense, protect rights-of-way,
easements and support or temporarily disconnect or relocate in the same street
or other public way, any property of the cable operator when necessitated by
reason of: traffic conditions, public safety, a street closing, street
construction or resurfacing, change or establishment of a street grade,
installations of other city utility services, or any improvement, construction
or repair related to health, safety or welfare.
   (D)   A cable operator shall, at the request of any person holding a
building moving permit, temporarily remove, raise or lower the cable wires to
allow the moving of the building. The expense of temporary removal shall be
paid by the person requesting it. The cable operator may require payment in
advance. The affected cable operator shall be given not less than 15 days’
notice of a contemplated move to arrange for temporary wire changes.
   (E)   (1)   A cable operator shall have the authority to trim trees
overhanging any streets in the franchise area so as to prevent branches from
coming in contact with the providers wires and cables.
      (2)   The cable operator shall allow town officials to supervise such
tree trimming, if desired, to prevent disputes between home owners and the
cable operator.
   (F)   In those areas of the town where transmission or distribution of both
telephone and power companies are underground or are later placed underground,
a cable operator’s feeder and drop cables shall also be placed underground. Any
undergrounding of cable performed by the cable operator shall be at its sole
expense.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.300) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.43 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Methods of construction, installation or maintenance and repair of any
cable system shall comply with the most current editions of the National
Electrical Safety Code, and the National Electric Code, as affects the
construction, installation and maintenance of electrical supply and
communications line and attachments and supports.
   (B)   To the extent that these are inconsistent with other provisions of a
franchise, or state, or local law, then the more stringent shall govern in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.310) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations and construction, see
Ch. 150.
§ 113.44 SYSTEM EXPANSION.
   (A)   A cable operator shall not be required to extend more than 1,000 feet
from the existing cable service, as measured from the extremity of the system
nearest to the unserved area.
   (B)   A newly installed subscriber shall not be assessed or apportioned the
cost for installation, except for the usual and normal connection fees paid by
subscribers, so long as the system expansion is technically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.320) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.45 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   A cable operator shall obtain, at its own expense, all permits and licenses
required by law, rule, regulation or ordinance, and maintain the same in full
force and effect for as long as required.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.330) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.46 CONSTRUCTION, FIRE AND SAFETY CODES.
   (A)   A cable operator shall construct, operate, maintain, repair, remove,
replace or restore the cable system in strict compliance with all current
technical codes adopted by the town, the state or the United States which are
customary to the cable television industry.
   (B)   The codes referred to specifically include, but are not limited to,
construction, fire, safety and zoning codes.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.340) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.60 FRANCHISE REQUIRED; AGREEMENT.
   (A)   No person or cable operator, other than the town, shall be permitted
to construct, operate or maintain a cable system which requires the laying or
positioning of cable (coaxial, fiber or functional equivalent) across the
rights-of-way of the town without first having entered into a franchise
agreement with the town.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may award one or more nonexclusive cable
service franchises within its geographical limits; provided, however, that, the
Board of Trustees shall not authorize or permit a cable television system to
operate within the town on terms or conditions more favorable or less
burdensome to such operator than any other operator.
      (2)   A franchised operator shall be selected as part of a public
proceeding and hearing which affords due process to both the town and the
applicant. If the applicant is selected as a franchised operator, then the
applicant will enter into a franchise agreement with the town, pursuant to the
provisions of federal, state and local laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.350)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees awards an applicant a franchise to construct,
operate or maintain a cable system in all or part of the town, or approves a
proposal for renewal of a franchise, then a franchise agreement shall be
entered into. A newly franchised operator may not lay any cable until the
franchise agreement is executed by the newly franchised operator and the town.
At a minimum, a franchise agreement shall contain provisions for the following:
      (1)   The term or duration of the franchise; and
      (2)   An agreement to comply with the cable ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.360)
(Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.61 EXTENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   Upon an award of a franchise, and the subsequent execution of a franchise
agreement, a cable operator may construct, install, maintain, operate, repair,
replace, remove or restore a cable system within the geographical limits set
forth in the franchise agreement.
   (A)   The franchised cable system may utilize the streets, rights-of-way,
easements and public ways of the town subject to terms and conditions of this
chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (B)   The franchised operator shall be responsible for obtaining it own
easements for private property, including privately-owned utility or street
light poles.
   (C)   A franchised operator, through a separate pole or utility easement
agreement with an affected utility, may locate the cable system on, or within,
the property of the utility company.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.370) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.62 FRANCHISE TERM; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   The term of a franchise may be for a period not to exceed 15 years
from the date that a franchise agreement, or a franchise renewal agreement, is
approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.380)
   (B)   The town may develop rules and regulations with respect to the
submission and processing of applications for a franchise. The rules and
regulations shall primarily be aimed at determining the legal, financial,
technical and character qualifications of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.390)
   (C)   Each franchised operator shall pay to the town franchise fees equal to
3% of the basic and expanded basic cable revenues. The franchise fees for the
privilege of using the streets, rights-of-way, easements and public ways and
other facilities of the town in the operation of the cable system, and for the
town’s supervision during the term of the franchise. If the FCC, Congress or
other governmental entity with authority over cable service allows a
franchising authority to increase the franchise fee beyond the above
percentage, then the town shall have the authority to increase the franchise
fee to the maximum rate allowable. It is intended that the franchise fees will
promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town.
Accordingly, the franchise fee shall be deposited into the general revenues of
the town, unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   Within 45 days after the end of each reporting quarter, a
franchised operator shall file with the town a detailed financial and revenue
report clearly showing the gross revenues received by the franchised operator
for operations within the town during the proceeding reporting quarter, and
certified by an officer of the franchised operator attesting to the accuracy of
the revenue figures. The report shall be in a form approved by the town. The
report shall include revenue from whatever source, directly or indirectly
derived from the operation of the cable system, or the provision of any cable
service by or to the cable system. Revenue may be reported in the aggregate for
the total franchise service area by general service type or source.
      (2)   In the event that payment is not made within 60 days after the end
of a reporting quarter, then the cable operator may be declared in default of
the franchise, and the town may take action against the cable operator as
authorized in this chapter.
      (3)   The acceptance of any payment shall not be construed as a release
of, or an accord or satisfaction of, any claim that the town might have for
further or additional sums payable under the terms of this chapter, or for any
other performance or obligation of a franchised operator.
      (4)   Payments of compensation made by a franchised operator to the town
pursuant to this chapter shall be considered in addition to, and exclusive of,
any and all authorized taxes, business license fees or other levies or
assessments presently in effect or later adopted.
      (5)   A franchise fee does not include any items excluded by federal law.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.400)
(Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.63 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A cable operator’s franchise may not be assigned in whole or in part
without the town’s prior written approval. For purposes of this section,
ASSIGNMENT means the transfer, sale or any other form of assignment of a cable
operator’s franchise, to include any transaction or action which effectively or
actually changes ownership from one person or entity to another to include the
transfer of 50% or more of the ownership interest of an entity. Any attempted
assignment without prior written approval shall constitute a default in the
franchise.
   (B)   A proposed assignment shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   At least 120 days before a proposed assignment is scheduled to
become effective, the franchised operator shall make a written request to the
Board of Trustees for the town’s approval of the proposed assignment.
      (2)   The town will not unreasonably withhold its consent to an
assignment. However, in making its determination, the Board of Trustees may
consider the following criteria:
         (a)   Qualifications of the proposed assignee;
         (b)   Financial ability and stability of the proposed assignee;
         (c)   The experience of the proposed assignee which may include
conducting an investigation of the proposed assignee’s service record in other
communities;
         (d)   Legal integrity of the proposed assignee or transferee;
         (e)   If requested by the Board of Trustees, submittals from the
proposed assignee concerning any changes it intends to make in the operation
and maintenance of the present cable system;
         (f)   The corporate connection, if any, between the franchised
operator and the proposed assignee;
         (g)   The economic viability or non-viability of the cable system in
the future, based upon certain factors including the impact of the purchase
price on the town and/or the proposed assignee; and
         (h)   Any other aspect of the proposed assignee’s background which
could affect the health, safety and welfare of the citizenry of the town as it
relates to the operation of the cable system.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the town from considering
other criteria, and in particular, any criteria established under state or
federal law, rule or regulation.
      (4)   Before an assignment or transfer is approved by the town, the
proposed assignee shall execute an agreement that it has read, understood and
intends to abide by any existing franchise agreement.
      (5)   In the event of any approved assignment, the assignee shall assume
all obligations and liabilities of the former franchised operator, except as
noted in the following division (B)(6).
      (6)   (a)   The town’s consent to an assignment shall not relieve the
former franchised operator of its liabilities under the franchise agreement
until the assignment actually takes place unless specifically relieved by
federal or state law or by the Board of Trustees at the time an assignment is
approved. In the event of an assignment, the former franchised operator shall
remain liable for any then incurred franchise fees for the period governed by
the applicable state statute of limitations. Consent shall not be required for
an assignment to a wholly-owned subsidiary entity of the current parent entity
of a cable operator, whether the ownership is direct or indirect, such as
through other wholly-owned intermediate subsidiaries.
         (b)   In addition, consent shall not be required for the granting of a
security interest in the cable operator’s system including its franchise.
However, if the holder of the security interest repossesses, forecloses or
takes other action concerning its collateral, it shall dispose of the system
within a reasonable period of time and the disposition by the holder of the
security interest shall be considered an assignment subject to the provisions
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.410) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.64 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   To the extent permitted by law, and in order to fulfill a public,
educational and governmental access policy that will facilitate the long range
needs of the community, each cable operator shall provide at its own expense
one PEG channel as necessary, and at the request of the town, equipment
reasonably necessary to record public events and to provide for the live
broadcast of events occurring at Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.420) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.65 PUBLIC SERVICE.
   A cable operator shall furnish, upon request, one outlet and one converter
for each public school building, municipal office building, public library,
fire station, police station which is passed by the operator’s cable system.
Basic cable service and the next additional service tier shall be provided at
no charge. An initial connection will be made at no charge with additional
connections to be made for the cost of time and materials only.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.430) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.66 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   A cable operator shall comply with any rules and regulations of the FCC
concerning technical operation, signal quality and consumer electronics
equipment compatibility.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.440) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.67 DEFAULT.
   When the franchised operator violates an integral provision of this chapter,
or acts so as to compromise the corporate character, or legal, financial or
technical integrity and/or stability of the cable system or the franchised
operator to a degree that the interests of the subscribers and users are
negatively affected, then the franchised operator shall be considered in
default of this chapter.
   (A)   Examples of a default include, but are not limited to: bankruptcy;
insolvency; failure to pay taxes or franchise fees; failure to receive written
town approval for an assignment; or failure to substantially abide by the
integral terms and conditions of the franchise agreement or this chapter.
Events in the nature of force majeure or conditions which cannot be corrected
because they are matters beyond the immediate control of the affected cable
operator shall not be considered a default.
   (B)   In the event that a default occurs, the town shall notify the affected
cable operator in writing of the specific violation(s).
   (C)   The cable operator shall have 30 days from the receipt of the written
notice to bring itself into compliance so that it is no longer in default of
its franchise or this chapter, as the case may be.
   (D)   (1)   If the cable operator fails to cure its default within the time
period provided for above, the matter shall be set for public hearing before
the Board of Trustees to be held within 75 days after the notice of default was
mailed to the cable operator.
      (2)   Written notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be
sent by certified mail to the cable operator and the surety at least ten days
prior to the date of the hearing.
   (E)   (1)   At the time of the hearing, the cable operator may present
information on the current status of the alleged default in the franchise
agreement.
      (2)   If the cable operator fails to attend the hearing where a
continuance of the hearing has not been granted by the Board of Trustees, then
the franchised operator may be declared in default of the franchise agreement.
   (F)   (1)   If the default has not been resolved at the time of or as a
result of the hearing, the Board of Trustees may, after the public hearing,
direct the cable operator to take corrective action within a specified period
of time or may declare the cable operator in default of the franchise
agreement, and revoke or terminate the franchise.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees’s action shall be mailed to the cable
operator and the surety within 15 days of the Board of Trustees’s action.
   (G)   If the Board of Trustees directs corrective action to be taken and the
cable operator or surety does not rectify the default within the time
specified, then the Board of Trustees may without further notice declare the
cable operator to be in default and revoke or terminate the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.450) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.68 FEDERAL LEGISLATION, RULES AND REGULATIONS; FRANCHISE SUBJECT TO
AMENDMENT.
   In addition to any requirements contained within this chapter, all cable
operators shall be expected to comply with all applicable provisions of the
Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. § 551, the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§
521 et seq., all later legislation directed at controlling or regulating cable
operators, and any rules and regulations issued pursuant to this legislation.
In addition, any franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to
amendment to incorporate any federal legislation, rules or regulations which
become effective after the date of the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.470) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Subject to the provisions of §
113.67 of this chapter concerning notice and hearing, any violation or failure
to abide by, and comply with, any provision or requirement of this chapter
shall be a violation of this chapter, and shall be subject to civil remedies as
provided by state or federal law, including monetary fines where permissible.
(Prior Code, § 13.20.460) (Ord. 96-13.20, passed - -1996)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Exemptions
   
114.04   Unlawful acts
   
114.05   License fees
   
114.06   Inspection
   
114.07   License required; application; investigation; expiration
   
114.08   Manager’s license required; change
   
114.09   Interior lighting
   
114.10   Adult cabarets and theaters
   
114.11   Conduct
   
114.12   Employee tips
   
114.13   Peep booths
   
114.14   Hours of operation
   
114.15   Minimum age
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to regulate sexually-
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually-oriented
businesses within the town, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually-oriented businesses.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to impose a limitation
or restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including
sexually-oriented materials.
   (C)   It is not the intent of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by the First Amendment or the
Colorado Constitution, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (D)   Neither is it the intent, nor effect, of this section to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words, terms and phrases with definitions, as used in this chapter shall
have the meanings set forth in §
156.041 of this code of ordinances. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually-oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a sexually-oriented business license.
   LICENSING OFFICER. The Town Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee.
   MANAGER. An operator, other than a licensee, who is employed by a sexually-
oriented business to act as a manager or supervisor of employees or is
otherwise responsible for the operation of the business.
   OPERATOR. The owner, license holder, custodian, manager, operator or person
in charge of any licensed premises.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, association, unincorporated
organization, trust or any other legal or commercial entity including a joint
venture or affiliated ownership.
   PREMISES or LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a sexually-
oriented business license and that is classified as a sexually-oriented
business, including parking lots and sidewalks immediately adjacent to the
structure containing the sexually-oriented business.
   PRINCIPAL OWNER. Any person owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of
the ownership interests in the entity.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTS. Sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse,
sexual assault or crimes connected with another sexually-oriented business
including, but not limited to, distribution of obscenity, prostitution or
pandering.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, management arrangement, gift or other
similar legal device which transfers ownership or control of the business,
including a transfer by bequest or operation of law.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 114.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating nude model studios do not apply
to:
   (A)   A college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly
by taxation;
   (B)   A private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs for which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   A business located in a structure which has no sign visible from the
exterior of the structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person
is available for viewing; and where, in order to participate in a class, a
student must enroll at least three days in advance of the class; and where no
more than one nude model is on the premises at any one time.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 114.04 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, manager or employee to violate any of
the requirements of this chapter or to knowingly permit any patron to violate
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business license is $200.
   (B)   The annual manager’s license fee is $50.
   (C)   An applicant for a sexually-oriented business license shall pay a non-
refundable application fee of $500 at the time of filing an application.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 114.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee or manager shall permit representatives of
the licensing officer, Town Superintendent, Town Police Department, the County
Health Department and the Fire Department to inspect the premises of a
sexually-oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law
at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, applicant, licensee or manager
who operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her agent to refuse to
permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is occupied
or open for business.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No sexually-oriented business license shall be issued for any
sexually-oriented business located within any area of the town, except for
areas zoned B-A Business District and B-B Business District.
      (2)   No person shall operate a sexually-oriented business without first
having obtained a valid Type A or Type B sexually-oriented business license
issued by the town.
         (a)   A Type A sexually-oriented business license shall be required
for sexually-oriented businesses where alcoholic beverages or alcoholic
liquors, as defined by the state’s Liquor Code and/or fermented malt beverages,
as defined by the state’s Beer Code, are allowed pursuant to a valid license
issued by the town.
         (b)   A Type B sexually-oriented business license shall be required
for all sexually-oriented businesses where alcoholic beverages or alcoholic
liquors, as defined by the state’s Liquor Code and/or fermented malt beverages,
as defined by the state’s Beer Code, are not allowed.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated a sexually-
oriented business when said person knows or reasonably should know that:
         (a)   The business does not have a sexually-oriented business license;
         (b)   The business has a sexually-oriented business license that is
under suspension;
         (c)   The business has a sexually-oriented business license that has
been revoked; or
         (d)   The business has a sexually-oriented business license that has
expired.
   (B)   Application for license.
      (1)   The licensing officer is responsible for granting, denying,
revoking, renewing and suspending sexually-oriented business licenses for
proposed or existing sexually-oriented businesses.
      (2)   The licensing officer is authorized to consult the appropriate law
enforcement officer to obtain information on whether an applicant has been
convicted of a specified criminal act during the time periods set forth in
division (E)(3)(h) below.
      (3)   Any person desiring to operate a sexually-oriented business shall
file with the licensing officer an original and two copies of a sworn sexually-
oriented business license application on the standard application form supplied
by the licensing officer.
      (4)   The completed application shall contain the following information
and shall be accompanied by the following documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state
his or her legal name and any aliases, and submit satisfactory proof that he or
she is 21 years of age or older in the case of a Type A sexually-oriented
business license or 18 years of age or older in the case of a Type B sexually-
oriented business license;
         (b)   If the applicant is a legal entity, the application shall state
its complete name, the date and place of its organization, evidence that it is
in good standing under the laws of the state in which it is organized, and if
it is organized under the laws of a state other than Colorado, that it is
registered to do business in Colorado, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors, managers and principal owners, and the name of the registered agent
and the address of the registered agent for service of process, if any;
         (c)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented
business under a name other than that of the applicant, the sexually-oriented
business’ fictitious name must be stated;
         (d)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to divisions (B)(4)(a) or (B)(4)(b) above have been convicted of a
specified criminal act within the times set forth in division (E)(3)(h) below
and, if so, the specified criminal act involved, the date of conviction and the
place of conviction;
         (e)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to divisions (B)(4)(a) or (B)(4)(b) above has had a previous license
under this or other sexually-oriented business ordinance from another city,
city or county denied, suspended or revoked and, if so, the name of the city,
city or county where the license was previously denied, suspended or revoked,
and the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the
license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension or revocation;
         (f)   Whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to divisions (B)(4)(a) or (B)(4)(b) above has been a partner in a partnership
or a principal owner of a corporation or other legal entity whose license has
previously been denied, suspended or revoked and, if so, the name of the city,
city or county where the license was previously denied, suspended or revoked,
and the name and location of the sexually-oriented business for which the
license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of denial,
suspension or revocation;
         (g)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
divisions (B)(4)(a) or (B)(4)(b) above holds any other licenses under this
chapter or other sexually-oriented business ordinance from another city, city
or county and, if so, the name of such city, city or county, and names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
         (h)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business,
including a legal description of the property, street address and telephone
number(s);
         (i)   Proof of the applicant’s right to possession of the premises
wherein the sexually-oriented business will be conducted;
         (j)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
         (k)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business and, if
applicable, the plan required by Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances. The
sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be oriented
to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The licensing officer may
waive the foregoing diagram or plan for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a diagram or plan that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared. If
the sexually-oriented business has or will have a peep booth or booths, the
sketch shall show the locations and dimensions of any manager’s stations and
demonstrate that there is an unobstructed view from one or more of the
manager’s station(s) of every area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access, excluding restrooms. The floor plan shall designate those
rooms or other areas of the premises where patrons are not permitted and shall
also designate the use of each room or other area of the premises;
         (l)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
30 days prior to an initial application by a Colorado registered land surveyor
depicting: the property lines and the structures of the property to be
certified; and the location of the property lines of any school, or platted
tract or lot dedicated for school purposes, any daycare, religious institution,
public building, dwelling, park or another sexually-oriented business within
600 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a use
or platted tract or lot shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence or pending at the time an application is submitted; and
         (m)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business
is an individual, he or she must sign the application for a sexually-oriented
business license as the applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a
sexually-oriented business is other than an individual, each principal owner of
the applicant must sign the application for a sexually-oriented business
license as applicant.
      (5)   In the event that the licensing officer determines or learns at any
time that the applicant has improperly completed the application for a proposed
sexually-oriented business, he or she shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the
application. The time period for granting or denying a sexually-oriented
business license shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is
allowed an opportunity to properly complete the application.
      (6)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or town
licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually-oriented business license.
   (C)   Duty to supplement application.
      (1)   Applicants for a sexually-oriented business license and licensees
shall have a continuing duty to promptly supplement any application information
required by this chapter in the event that said information changes in any way
from what is stated on the application.
      (2)   The failure to comply with said continuing duty to supplement an
application within 30 days from the date of such change shall be grounds for
denial of an application or suspension of a sexually-oriented business license.
   (D)   Investigation of application.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually-oriented business
license properly filed with the licensing officer and upon payment of the non-
refundable application fee, the licensing officer shall immediately stamp the
application as received and send copies of the application to the Town
Superintendent and the Town Police Chief. The Town Superintendent and Town
Police Chief, or their respective designees, shall promptly conduct an
investigation of the applicant, application and the proposed sexually-oriented
business in accordance with this chapter. Investigations shall be completed
within 20 days of receipt of the application by the licensing officer. At the
conclusion of their investigations, the Town Superintendent shall indicate on
the copy of the application his or her approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it and in the event of disapproval, state the
reasons therefor. The Town Police Chief shall only be required to provide the
information specified in division (B)(2) above and shall not approve or
disapprove applications.
      (2)   The Town Superintendent may disapprove an application if he or she
finds that the proposed sexually-oriented business will be or is in violation
of any provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in
effect in the town. After their investigations and review, the Town
Superintendent and Town Police Chief shall each immediately return the copy of
the application to the licensing officer.
   (E)   Issuance license.
      (1)   The licensing officer shall grant or deny an application for a
sexually-oriented business license within 30 days from the date of its proper
filing. Upon the expiration of the 30 days, the applicant shall be licensed to
begin operating the business for which the sexually-oriented business license
is sought, unless and until the licensing officer notifies the applicant of a
denial of the application and states the reason(s) for that denial.
      (2)   The licensing officer shall grant the sexually-oriented business
license unless one or more of the criteria set forth in division (E)(3) below
is present. The sexually-oriented business license, if granted, shall state on
its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the
expiration date and the address of the sexually-oriented business. The
sexually-oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it can be easily
read at any time.
      (3)   The licensing officer shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 21 years of age in the case of an
application for a Type A sexually-oriented business license or under 18 years
of age in the case of an application for a Type B sexually-oriented business
license;
         (b)   An applicant is overdue on his or her payments to the town of
taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in
relation to a sexually-oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
division (E) for the issuance of the sexually-oriented business license or has
falsely answered a question or request for information on the application form
and has refused to provide corrected information;
         (d)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have
been disapproved by an inspecting agency;
         (e)   The application or sexually-oriented business license fees have
not been paid;
         (f)   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter;
         (g)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance or court order;
         (h)   The applicant has a sexually-oriented business license under
this division (E) that has been suspended or revoked within the previous 12
months;
         (i)   1.   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
or acts for which:
               a.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
               b.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date or release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
               c.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later
date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanors.
            2.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant. An applicant who has been
convicted of a specified criminal act or acts may qualify for a sexually-
oriented business license only when the time period required above has elapsed.
         (j)   If the licensing officer denies the application, he or she shall
notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the denial. A
copy of such denial shall be forwarded to the Town Attorney.
   (F)   Expiration of license.
      (1)   Each sexually-oriented business license shall expire one year from
the date of issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided
in division (B) above (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be
sufficient). Application for renewal of a sexually-oriented business license
shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date of the sexually-
oriented business license.
      (2)   If, subsequent to denial of renewal the licensing officer finds
that the basis for denial of the renewal of the sexually-oriented business
license has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a sexually-oriented
business license if no more than 90 days have elapsed since the date denial
became final.
   (G)   Suspension of license.
      (1)   The licensing officer may suspend a sexually-oriented business
license for a period not to exceed 150 days if he or she determines that a
licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter or any other section of this code of ordinances regulating sexually-
oriented businesses;
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
         (c)   Knowingly allowed repeated disturbances of public peace to occur
within the licensed establishment or upon the premises of the licensed
establishment involving patrons, employees or the licensee;
         (d)   Operated the sexually-oriented business in violation of a
building, fire, health or zoning code, ordinance or regulation whether federal,
state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
department, division or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such a statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the
licensing officer shall promptly notify the licensee of the violation and shall
allow the licensee a 20-day period in which to correct the violation. If the
licensee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the 20-day
period, the licensing officer shall forthwith suspend the sexually-oriented
business license and shall notify the licensee of the suspension;
         (e)   Operated the sexually-oriented business in violation of the
hours of operation provisions set forth in this chapter; or
         (f)   Transferred a sexually-oriented business license contrary to the
provisions of this chapter. In the event of such suspension, the licensing
officer shall forthwith notify the original licensee and the transferee of the
suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the applicable section
of this chapter has been satisfied.
      (2)   The suspension shall remain in effect until and including the last
day in the licensing officer’s order and the violation of the statute, code,
ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.
   (H)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   The licensing officer may revoke a sexually-oriented business
license upon determining that:
         (a)   A cause of suspension as set forth in this chapter occurred and
the sexually-oriented business license has been suspended within the preceding
12 months;
         (b)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a sexually-oriented business license;
         (c)   A licensee, manager or an employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances (as defined in C.R.S.§ 18-18-
102, as amended) on the premises;
         (d)   A licensee, manager or an employee has knowingly allowed acts of
prostitution or negotiations for acts of prostitution on the premises;
         (e)   A licensee, manager or an employee knowingly operated the
sexually-oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s
sexually-oriented business license was suspended;
         (f)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period set forth in division (E)(3)(h) above has not elapsed;
         (g)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the licensed premises
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually-oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the sexually-oriented
business license;
         (h)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the town or state for any
taxes or fees;
         (i)   A licensee, manager or an employee has knowingly allowed any
specified sexual activity to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
         (j)   The licensee has operated more than one sexually-oriented
business within the same building, structure or portion thereof.
      (2)   When the licensing officer revokes a sexually-oriented business
license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not
be issued a sexually-oriented business license for one year from the date
revocation became effective.
   (I)   Suspension or revocation hearing.
      (1)   A licensee shall be entitled to a hearing before the licensing
officer if the town seeks to suspend or revoke his or her sexually-oriented
business license based on a violation of this chapter or any other section of
this code of ordinances regulating sexually-oriented businesses. The business
may continue to operate during the hearing process.
      (2)   When there is probable cause to believe that a cause for suspension
or revocation exists, the Town Attorney may file a written complaint with the
licensing officer setting forth the circumstances of the alleged violation.
      (3)   The licensing officer shall provide a copy of the complaint to the
licensee, together with notice to appear before the licensing officer for the
purpose of a hearing on a specified date to show cause why the licensee’s
sexually-oriented business license should not be suspended or revoked.
      (4)   (a)   At the hearing, the licensing officer shall hear such
statements and consider such evidence as the law enforcement personnel, or
other enforcement officers, the owner, occupant, lessee or other party in
interest, or any other witness shall offer that is relevant to the violation
alleged in the complaint.
         (b)   The licensing officer shall make findings of fact from the
statements and evidence offered as to whether the violation occurred in or near
the licensed establishment.
         (c)   If the licensing officer determines that a cause for suspension
or revocation exists, he or she shall issue an order suspending or revoking the
sexually-oriented business license within 30 days after the hearing is
concluded based on the findings of fact.
         (d)   A copy of the order shall be mailed to or served on the licensee
at the address on the license.
      (5)   (a)   The order of the licensing officer made pursuant to division
(I)(4) above shall be a final decision and may be appealed to the district
court pursuant to Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure 106(a)(4).
         (b)   Failure of a licensee to timely appeal said order constitutes a
waiver by him or her of any right he or she may otherwise have to contest the
suspension or revocation of the sexually-oriented business license.
      (6)   (a)   The licensing officer shall have the power to administer
oaths, issue subpoenas and when necessary grant continuances. Subpoenas may be
issued to require the presence of persons and production of papers, books and
records necessary to the determination of any hearing which the licensing
officer conducts.
         (b)   It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
subpoena issued by the licensing officer.
         (c)   A subpoena shall be served in the same manner as a subpoena
issued by the District Court of the state.
      (7)   (a)   All hearings held before the licensing officer regarding
suspension or revocation of a sexually-oriented business license issued under
this chapter shall be recorded stenographically or by electronic recording
device.
         (b)   Any person requesting a transcript of such record shall post a
deposit in the amount required by the licensing officer, and shall pay all
costs of preparing such record.
      (8)   In the event of suspension, revocation or cessation of business, no
portion of the sexually-oriented business license fee shall be refunded.
   (J)   Transfer of license.
      (1)   A licensee shall not operate a sexually-oriented business under the
authority of a sexually-oriented business license at any place other than the
address designated in the application for sexually-oriented business license.
      (2)   A licensee shall not transfer his or her sexually-oriented business
license to another person unless and until such other person satisfies the
following requirements:
         (a)   Obtains an amendment to the sexually-oriented business license
from the licensing officer which provides that he or she is now the licensee,
which amendment may be obtained only if he or she has completed and properly
filed an application with the licensing officer setting forth the information
called for under division (B) above; and
         (b)   Pays a transfer fee of 20% of the annual sexually-oriented
business license fee.
      (3)   No sexually-oriented business license may be transferred when the
licensing officer has notified the licensee that suspension or revocation
proceedings have been or will be brought against the licensee.
      (4)   Any attempt to transfer a sexually-oriented business license either
directly or indirectly in violation of this section is declared void.
   (K)   Suspension or revocation hearing.
      (1)   (a)   A manager shall be entitled to a hearing before the licensing
officer if the town seeks to suspend or revoke the manager’s license based on a
violation of this chapter or any other section of this code of ordinances
regulating sexually-oriented businesses.
         (b)   The manager may continue to manage a sexually-oriented business
during the hearing process.
      (2)   When there is probable cause to believe that a cause for suspension
or revocation exists, the Town Attorney may file a written complaint with the
licensing officer setting forth the circumstances of the alleged violation.
      (3)   The licensing officer shall provide a copy of the complaint to the
licensee, together with notice to appear before the licensing officer for the
purpose of a hearing on a specified date to show cause why the licensee’s
license should not be suspended or revoked.
      (4)   (a)   At the hearing, the licensing officer shall hear such
statements and consider such evidence as the law enforcement personnel, or
other enforcement officers, the owner, employer, occupant, lessee or other
party in interest, or any other witness shall offer which is relevant to the
violation alleged in the complaint.
         (b)   The licensing officer shall make findings of fact from the
statements and evidence offered as to whether the violation occurred in or near
the licensed establishment.
         (c)   If the licensing officer determines that a cause for suspension
or revocation exists, he or she shall issue an order suspending or revoking the
manager’s license within 30 days after the hearing is concluded based on the
findings of fact.
         (d)   A copy of the order shall be mailed to or served on the licensee
at the address on the license.
      (5)   (a)   The order of the licensing officer made pursuant to division
(K)(4) above shall be a final decision and may be appealed to the district
court pursuant to the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure 106(a)(4).
         (b)   Failure of a licensee to timely appeal said order constitutes a
waiver by him or her of any right he or she may otherwise have to contest the
suspension or revocation of the manager’s license.
      (6)   (a)   The licensing officer shall have the power to administer
oaths, issue subpoenas and, when necessary, grant continuances.
         (b)   Subpoenas may be issued to require the presence of persons and
production of papers, books and records necessary to the determination of any
hearing the licensing officer conducts.
         (c)   It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
subpoena issued by the licensing officer.
         (d)   A subpoena shall be served in the same manner as a subpoena
issued by the District Court of the state.
      (7)   (a)   All hearings held before the licensing officer regarding
suspension or revocation of a manager’s license issued under this chapter shall
be recorded stenographically or by electronic recording device.
         (b)   Any person requesting a transcript of such record shall post a
deposit in the amount required by the licensing officer and shall pay all costs
of preparing such record.
      (8)   In the event of suspension, revocation or cessation of business, no
portion of the manager’s license fee shall be refunded.
   (L)   Notice. Any notice required by this chapter shall be deemed sufficient
if it is deposited in first class mail, postage pre-paid, to the address on the
application and shall be effective upon mailing.
   (M)   Judicial review. After denial of an application, or denial of a
renewal of an application, or suspension or revocation of a license, such act
shall be a final decision. Therefore, the applicant or licensee may seek
judicial review of such administrative action pursuant to the Colorado Rules of
Civil Procedure. The Court shall promptly review such administrative action.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 MANAGER’S LICENSE REQUIRED; CHANGE.
   (A)   License required; change of manager.
      (1)   A manager or designee shall be on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business at all times during operation. It shall be unlawful for any
person to work as a manager of a sexually-oriented business without first
obtaining a manager’s license.
      (2)   In the event a manager ceases to be employed at the premises listed
in his or her application, the manager shall immediately report such change to
the licensing officer within ten days of such change.
   (B)   Application for manager’s license.
      (1)   (a)   A manager shall submit an application for a manager’s license
on a form to be provided by the licensing officer.
         (b)   The application shall contain the applicant’s name, address,
date of birth, telephone number, address, the name(s) and address(es) of the
sexually-oriented business(es) that manager proposes to manage and the
information required in §
114.07(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Police Chief or his or her designee shall conduct an
investigation of the applicant to determine if the applicant has been convicted
of a specified criminal act within the times set forth in §
114.07(E)(3)(h) of this chapter.
      (3)   The licensing officer shall grant the application ten days of its
filing unless:
         (a)   The applicant is under the age of 21 in the case of a Type A
sexually-oriented business license or under the age of 18 in the case of a Type
B sexually-oriented business license;
         (b)   The applicant has failed to provide the information required by
this section;
         (c)   The license fee has not been paid; or
         (d)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
within the times set forth in §
114.07(E)(3)(h) of this chapter.
   (C)   Expiration of manager’s license.
      (1)   (a)   Each manager’s license shall expire one year from the date of
issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in division
(B) above.
         (b)   Application for renewal of a manager’s license shall be made at
least 30 days before the expiration date of the manager’s license.
      (2)   If, subsequent to denial of renewal, the licensing officer finds
that the basis for denial of the renewal of the manager’s license has been
corrected, the applicant shall be granted a manager’s license if no more than
90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
   (D)   Suspension of manager’s license.
      (1)   The licensing officer may suspend a manager’s license for a period
not to exceed 90 days if he or she determines that the manager has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter;
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
         (c)   Knowingly allowed repeated disturbances of public peace to occur
within the licensed establishment or upon the premises of the licensed
establishment involving patrons, employees or the licensee; or
         (d)   Operated the sexually-oriented business in violation of the
hours of operation provisions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The suspension shall remain in effect until and including the last
day in the licensing officer’s order and the violation of the statute, code,
ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.
   (E)   Revocation of manager’s license.
      (1)   The licensing officer may revoke a sexually-oriented business
manager’s license upon determining that:
         (a)   A cause of suspension as set forth in this chapter occurred and
the sexually-oriented business manager’s license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months;
         (b)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a manager’s license;
         (c)   The manager knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances (as defined in C.R.S. 18-18-102) on the premises;
         (d)   The manager knowingly allowed acts of prostitution or
negotiations for acts of prostitution on the premises;
         (e)   The manager knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business
during a period of time when the sexually-oriented business license was
suspended;
         (f)   The manager has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period set forth in §
114.07(E)(3)(h) of this chapter has not elapsed;
         (g)   The manager has knowingly allowed any specified sexual activity
to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
         (h)   The manager has knowingly allowed more than one sexually-
oriented business to be operated within the same building, structure or portion
thereof.
      (2)   When the licensing officer revokes a manager’s license, the
revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a
manager’s license for one year from the date revocation became effective.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 114.09 INTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   The interior portion of the premises of a sexually-oriented business
to which patrons are permitted access shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place (including peep
booths) at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as measured at
the floor level.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee and employees present on the
premises to ensure that the illumination described above is maintained at all
times that any patron is present on the premises.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 ADULT CABARETS AND THEATERS.
   (A)   Any adult cabaret or adult theater shall have one or more separate
areas designated as a stage in the diagram submitted as part of the application
for the sexually-oriented business license.
   (B)   Entertainers shall perform only upon the stage.
   (C)   The stage shall be fixed and immovable.
   (D)   No seating for the audience shall be permitted within three feet of
the edge of the stage.
   (E)   No members of the audience shall be permitted upon the stage or within
three feet of the edge of the stage.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 CONDUCT.
   (A)   (1)   No licensee, manager or employee mingling with the patrons of a
sexually-oriented business, or serving food or drinks, shall be in a state of
nudity.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this subsection
that an employee of a sexually-oriented business exposed any specified
anatomical area only during the employee’s bona fide use of a restroom or
during the employee’s bona fide use of a dressing room that is accessible only
to employees.
   (B)   No licensee, manager or employee shall encourage or knowingly permit
any person upon the premises to touch, caress or fondle the breasts, anus, or
specified anatomical areas of any person.
   (C)   An adult bookstore, adult novelty shop and adult video store shall be
operated in compliance with Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 EMPLOYEE TIPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any employee of a sexually-oriented business
to receive tips from patrons, except as set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   A licensee that desires to provide for tips from its patrons
shall establish one or more boxes or other containers to receive tips.
      (2)   All tips for such employees shall be placed by the patron of the
sexually-oriented business into the tip box.
   (C)   A sexually-oriented business that provides tip boxes for its patrons
as provided in this section shall post one or more signs to be conspicuously
visible to the patrons on the premises, in bold letters at least one inch high
to read as follows: “All tips are to be placed in the tip box and not handed
directly to employees. Any physical contact between a patron and employees is
strictly prohibited.”
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13 PEEP BOOTHS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business with peep booths to violate the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   (1)   At least one employee must be on duty and situated at each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that such employee shall be clearly visible from every area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms.
      (3)   If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of the employee from at least one of the managers’
stations from each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose.
      (4)   The view required in this section must be by direct line of sight
from the manager’s station.
      (5)   The view area shall remain unobstructed by any opaque coverings,
two-way mirrors, doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at
all times, and no patron shall be permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to §
114.07(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms.
      (2)   Restrooms may not contain video display equipment.
      (3)   If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then
the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is
an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the managers’ stations.
      (4)   The view required in this division (C) must be by direct line of
sight from the manager’s station.
      (5)   The view area shall remain unobstructed by any opaque coverings,
two-way mirrors, doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at
all times, and no patron shall be permitted access to any area of the premises
that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to §
114.07(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   No peep booth may be occupied by more than one person at any one time.
   (E)   No door, two-way mirror, screen, opaque covering or other covering
shall be placed or allowed to remain on any peep booth, and no holes or
openings shall be placed or allowed to remain in the wall between any two
adjacent peep booths.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a sexually-oriented business to be open for
business or for the licensee, manager or any employee of a licensee to allow
patrons upon the licensed premises during the following time periods:
   (A)   On any Tuesday through Saturday from 2:00 a.m. until 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   On any Monday, other than a Monday which falls on January 1, from 12:
00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m.;
   (C)   On any Sunday from 2:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m.; and
   (D)   On any Monday which falls on January 1 from 2:00 a.m. until 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 MINIMUM AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be
upon the premises of a sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee, manager or any employee of the
licensee to allow anyone under the age of 18 years to be upon the premises of a
sexually-oriented business.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $300. Each day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted
by any such person shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 20, passed - -1910; Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-
4-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Legislative intent
   
130.02   Obstructing or resisting officer
   
130.03   Neglect of duty
   
130.04   Rescue from custody
   
130.05   Assault and battery
   
130.06   Conspiracy to injure or intimidate
   
130.07   Gambling
   
130.08   Houses of prostitution
   
130.09   Indecent exposure
   
130.10   Open alcohol containers
   
130.11   Marijuana and drug paraphernalia
   
130.12   Tobacco usage by minors
   
130.13   Disorderly conduct
   
130.14   Disturbing the peace
   
130.15   Disturbing lawful assembly
   
130.16   Breach of the peace; provoking
   
130.17   Harassment
   
130.18   Vandalism
   
130.19   Trespassing
   
130.20   Misdemeanor theft
   
130.21   Bad checks
   
130.22   Shoplifting
   
130.23   Weapons and firearms
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter not to cover or include
offenses that are felonies under the Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended, and
neither this chapter, nor any ordinance contained herein, shall be otherwise
construed.
(Prior Code, § 9.02.010) (Ord. 2015-3, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTING OR RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully obstruct,
resist, interfere with or oppose any police officer in the performance of his
or her duties in the town.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully counsel, aid,
abet or assist any person in obstructing, resisting, interfering with or
opposing any police officer in the performance of his or her duties in the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9.04.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 NEGLECT OF DUTY.
   It is unlawful for any officer of the town to knowingly fail or refuse to
perform the duties of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 9.08.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 RESCUE FROM CUSTODY.
   It is unlawful for any person to rescue or attempt to rescue any person in
custody under lawful process or in the custody of any police officer who has
authority to make arrests without lawful process in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It is unlawful for any person to commit an unlawful assault or assault and
battery upon the person of another in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.20.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CONSPIRACY TO INJURE OR INTIMIDATE.
   It is unlawful for any person to enter into a conspiracy for the purpose of
injuring or intimidating another within the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.24.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Keeping gambling house or room prohibited. It is unlawful to keep any
house or room within the corporate limits of the town for the purpose of
gambling, and any person or persons offending against the provisions of this
section shall, upon trial and conviction of the offense, be fined as set out in
§
130.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.32.010)
   (B)   Engaging in game of chance prohibited. If any person or persons engage
in any game of chance within the corporate limits of the town, he or she shall,
upon trial and conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be
fined as set out in §
130.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.32.020)
(Ord. 104, passed - -1928) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 HOUSES OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Use of building for purposes of prostitution unlawful. It is unlawful
for any person who has, or exercises control over, the use of a house or
building which offers seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution in
the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.36.010)
   (B)   Unlawful acts. Anyone who performs any one or more of the following
commits keeping a house of prostitution if he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such house or building for
the purpose of prostitution; or
      (2)   Permits continued use of such house or building for the purpose of
prostitution after becoming aware of the facts or circumstances from which he
or she should reasonably know that the house or building is being used for
purposes of prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 9.36.020)
   (C)   “Engaging in prostitution” defined. For the purposes of this section,
a person ENGAGES IN PROSTITUTION if he or she performs, offers or agrees to
perform any act of sexual intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, masturbation or
anal intercourse with any person not his or her spouse in exchange for money or
other thing of value.
(Prior Code, § 9.36.030)
(Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly expose his or her genitals to the
view of any person under circumstances in which such conduct is likely to cause
affront or alarm to the other person in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.40.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 OPEN ALCOHOL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Variances from the provisions of §
110.21 of this code of ordinances may be granted by the town’s Police
Department upon written application, of not less than three days in advance of
the day for which the said variance is requested and upon payment to the police
of a refundable $50 deposit to cover any damages and added town services which
may occur as a direct or indirect result of the variance.
   (B)   A variance is granted to members of the town’s Fire Department
allowing them the privilege to consume alcoholic beverages within the building
owned by the town and known as the “Haxtun Fire Hall”. This right is not vested
and may be withdrawn by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees at any time
without notice to the parties concerned.
(Prior Code, § 9.44.010) (Ord. 99-9, passed - -1999)
§ 130.11 MARIJUANA AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   (1)   It is an offense for a person under the age of 21 years to
possess marijuana in any amount.
      (2)   It is an offense for any person to grow marijuana for personal use
anywhere in the town other than in an enclosed, locked space that is not open
or public. For purposes of this division (A)(2), ENCLOSED shall mean having a
roof and all sides closed to the weather with walls, windows or doors.
      (3)   It is an offense for any person to openly and publicly display,
consume or use two ounces or less of marijuana.
   (B)   (1)   It is an offense to possess drug paraphernalia under
circumstances where the possessor knows or reasonably should know that the drug
paraphernalia could be used in violation of the laws of state or the ordinances
of the town.
      (2)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment,
products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or
designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of the laws of the state or the ordinances of
the town. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances under circumstances in violation of the laws of the state;
         (b)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (c)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (d)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (e)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (f)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances; and
         (g)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish beads or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.    Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held
in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons or cocaine vials; or
            7.   Chamber pipes, carburetor pipes, electric pipes, air-driven
pipes, chillums, bongs or ice pipes or chillers.
      (3)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, the
following factors, in addition to all other relevant factors, may be
considered:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (c)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (d)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the knowledge of an owner,
or of anyone in control of the object, or evidence that such person reasonably
should know, that it will be delivered to persons who he or she knows or
reasonably should know, could use the object to facilitate a violation of the
laws of the state or the ordinances of the town;
         (e)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (f)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (g)   National or local advertising concerning its use;
         (h)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (i)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
supplier of like or related items to the community for legal purposes, such as
an authorized distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (j)   The existence and scope of legal uses for the object in the
community; and
         (k)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug or other substance or an immediate
precursor which is declared to be a controlled substance under C.R.S. § 18-18-
102(5), as may from time to time be amended.
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Does not include any marijuana accessories, as
defined in the Colorado Constitution Art. XVIII, § 16(2)(g), if possessed or
used by a person 21 years of age or older.
(Ord. -, Series 2000, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 2015-3, passed 6-1-2015) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.12 TOBACCO USAGE BY MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKELESS TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any finely cut, ground, powered or leaf
tobacco that is intended to be placed in the oral cavity or nasal passage,
including, but not limited to, snuff and chewing tobacco.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigars, cheroots, stogies, periques, granulated, plug
cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco, snuff, snuff flour,
cavendish, plus and twist tobacco, fine cut and other chewing tobaccos, shorts,
refuse scraps, clipping, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco and other forms of
tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or for smoking
in a pipe or otherwise, or for both chewing and smoking.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly furnish to any
person who is under 18 years of age by gift, sale or any other means, any
cigarettes or tobacco products, as defined in division (A) above.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under 18 years of age to
purchase any cigarettes or tobacco products, as defined in division (A) above.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to have
in such person’s possession any cigarette or tobacco products, as defined in
division (A) above.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any
smokeless tobacco product by use of a vending machine or other coin-operated
machine.
      (5)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any cigarettes or
tobacco products, other than a smokeless tobacco product, by use of a vending
machine, any other coin-operated machine which does not display the following
warning sign or wherever tobacco products are sold:
 
WARNING IT IS ILLEGAL FOR ANY PERSON UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE TO PURCHASE OR
HAVE IN THEIR POSSESSION CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND, UPON CONVICTION,
A FINE MAY BE IMPOSED.
 
         (b)   The warning sign shall be displayed in a prominent place where
ever tobacco products are sold and shall have a minimum height of three inches
and a width of six inches.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person or persons who fight or who aid, counsel or encourage any person
or persons to fight, by threats or otherwise, or abets or assists in bringing
about any fight or quarrel between persons within the town, or any person or
persons who engage in, promote, assist or encourage any contest known as
fighting, shall be deemed guilty of a disorderly conduct and punished as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.52.010) (Ord. 76-2, passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons who shall within the corporate
limits of the town, maliciously or willfully disturb the peace or quiet of any
neighborhood or family by loud or unusual noises, or by tumultuous or offensive
carriage, threatening, traducing, quarreling challenging to fight, fighting or
being assembled for, or engaged in any riot, rout or any unlawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.56.010) (Ord. 76-1, passed - -1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful for any person with the intent to prevent or disrupt any
lawful meeting, procession or gathering to significantly obstruct or interfere
with the meeting, procession or gathering by physical action, verbal utterance
or any other means in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.60.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 BREACH OF THE PEACE; PROVOKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to use obscenities, fighting words or other
words calculated to provoke a breach of the peace in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.64.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   A person commits harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy or alarm
another person, he or she:
      (1)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects
him or her to physical contact;
      (2)   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an obscene
gesture to or at another person;
      (3)   Follows a person in or about a public place;
      (4)   Directly or indirectly initiates communication with a person or
directs language toward another person, anonymously or otherwise, by telephone,
telephone network, data network, text message, instant message, computer,
computer network, computer system or other interactive electronic medium in a
manner intended to harass or threaten bodily injury or property damage, or
makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal by telephone, computer,
computer network, computer system or other interactive electronic medium that
is obscene;
      (5)   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues with no purpose of legitimate
conversation;
      (6)   Makes repeated communications at inconvenient hours that invade the
privacy of another and interfere in the use and enjoyment of another’s home or
private residence or other private property; or
      (7)   In a manner likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response from
a specific recipient, insults, taunts or challenges the recipient or threatens
bodily injury or property damage to the recipient.
(Prior Code, § 9.66.010)
   (B)   As used in this section, OBSCENE means a patently offensive
description of ultimate sexual acts or solicitation to commit ultimate sexual
acts whether or not said ultimate sexual acts are normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, including masturbation, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus or
excretory functions.
(Prior Code, § 9.66.020)
(Ord. 85-9.63, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 VANDALISM.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully injure, deface or destroy or
assist another to injure, deface or destroy any property not his or her own,
whether public or private, in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.72.010) (Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of trespassing if he or she unlawfully
enters or remains in or upon premises.
(Prior Code, § 9.74.010)
   (B)   As used in this section, PREMISES means the real property, buildings
or other improvements.
(Prior Code, § 9.74.020)
(Ord. 85-9.73, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 MISDEMEANOR THEFT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obtain or exercise
control over anything of another that has a value of less than $2,000 without
authorization, or by threat or deception, and:
      (1)   Intend to deprive the other person permanently of the use or
benefit of the thing of value;
      (2)   Knowingly use, conceal or abandon the thing of value in such a
manner as to deprive the other person permanently of its use or benefit;
      (3)   Use, conceal or abandon the thing of value intending that such use,
concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person permanently of its use
and benefit; or
      (4)   Demand any consideration to which he or she is not legally entitled
as a condition of restoring the thing of value to the other person.
   (B)   A thing of value is that of “another” if anyone other than the
defendant has a possessory or proprietary interest therein.
(Ord. 3, Series 2007, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 BAD CHECKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to write a bad check. A person is guilty of
writing a bad check when he or she issues to an individual or entity, located
within the town, a check or similar sight order for payment of money, in an
amount less than $2,000, knowing that he or she had a closed bank account, or
did not have sufficient funds in or on deposit with the bank or other drawee
for the payment in full of the check as well as all other checks outstanding at
the time of issuance.
(Ord. 9.76, Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 SHOPLIFTING.
   It is unlawful for any person, including minors, to commit shoplifting. A
person commits shoplifting if he or she knowingly or intentionally conceals or
carries away, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of its use or
benefit, any item or items of merchandise offered for sale or display within a
retail store where the aggregate retail value of the item or items does not
exceed $2,000.
(Ord. 9.77, Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 WEAPONS AND FIREARMS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to carry a knife, firearm, any
explosive, incendiary or other dangerous device in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9.92.010)
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant was:
         (a)   A person in his or her own dwelling or place of business or on
property owned or under his or her control at the time of the act of carrying a
concealed weapon;
         (b)   A person in a private automobile or other private means of
conveyance who carries a weapon for lawful protection of his, hers or another’s
person or property while traveling;
         (c)   A person who, prior to the time of carrying a concealed weapon,
has been issued a written permit to carry the weapon by the Chief of Police of
a city, mayor of a town or sheriff of a county anywhere within the state; or
         (d)   A peace officer, as defined by C.R.S. § 18-1-901(3)(1).
(Prior Code, § 9.92.020)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, arm or display
in a threatening manner any dangerous or deadly weapon in the town. This
section shall not apply to any peace officer in the performance of his or her
duties.
(Prior Code, § 9.96.010)
(Ord. 82-7, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful to keep any house or room within the corporate
limits of the town for the purpose of gambling, per §
130.07(A) of this chapter and any person or persons offending against the
provisions of this section shall, upon trial and conviction of the offense, be
fined in any sum not to exceed $300 and costs of suit.
(Prior Code, § 9.32.010)
      (2)   If any person or persons engage in any game of chance within the
corporate limits of the town, per §
130.07(B) of this chapter, he or she shall, upon trial and conviction thereof,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined in any sum not less than $10,
nor more than $300 and costs of suit.
(Prior Code, § 9.32.020)
      (3)   If any person or persons found guilty of a violation of §
130.07 of this chapter fails immediately to pay his or her fine and costs, the
town may, at its option, collect the fine and costs at a civil action brought
for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9.32.030)
   (C)   (1)   A violation of §
130.11(A) of this chapter is a petty offense and, upon conviction, only a fine,
not to exceed $100, shall be imposed.
      (2)   A violation of §
130.11(B) of this chapter is a petty offense and, upon conviction, only a fine,
not to exceed $100, shall be imposed.
   (D)   The penalty for a violation of §
130.12 of this chapter shall be at the discretion of the Court, not to exceed
$300.
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.17 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $300.
(Prior Code, § 9.66.010)
   (F)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.19 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $300.
(Prior Code, § 9.74.030)
   (G)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.20 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $300.
   (H)   Every person convicted of a violation of §
130.21 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300 for each
violation, but no jail sentence or other form of imprisonment may be imposed, a
fine being the exclusive punishment, and no imprisonment shall be allowed under
§
130.21 of this chapter.
   (I)   Every person convicted of a violation of §
130.22 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 for each
violation, but no jail sentence or other form of imprisonment may be imposed, a
fine being the exclusive punishment, and no imprisonment shall be allowed under
§
130.22 of this chapter.
(Ord. 104, passed - -1928; Ord. 85-9.63, passed - -1985; Ord. 85-9.73, passed -
-1985; Ord. -, Series 2000, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. passed 1-10-2003; Ord. 9.76,
Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 9.77, Series 2003, passed 6-16-2003; Ord.
3, Series 2007, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 2015-3, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 2020-2,
passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew for minors
   
131.02   Exemptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to loaf and/or
loiter in any public street, alley or in any other public place within the town
on foot or in any conveyance of any nature between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. on Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays or Thursdays; and between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian or adult member of his or her family.
(Ord. 9.88.010, Series 2002, passed 10-7-2002) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the Municipal Court from ordering the
minor and his or her parent, guardian or other person having the legal care,
custody or control of such person under the age of 18 years to perform useful
public service in amounts of time determined by the Court.
(Ord. 9.88.010, Series 2002, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody
or control of any person under the age of 18 years who allows or permits such
person to violate any provision of this chapter shall be in violation of the
Municipal Code and, upon first conviction, shall be fined not less than $100,
nor more than $300.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a second offense, every parent, guardian or other
person having the legal care, custody or control of any person under the age of
18 years who allows or permits such person to violate this chapter shall be
fined not less than $200.
(Ord. 9.88.010, Series 2002, passed 10-7-2002)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HOUSING CODE
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   AIRPORT
      
155.   RESIDENTIAL SOLAR SYSTEMS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Uniform Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Uniform Housing Code adopted
   
150.03   Uniform Fire Code
   
150.04   National Electric Safety Code
   
150.05   Uniform Plumbing Code
   
150.06   Dangerous Building Code
Building Numbering
   
150.20   Lots numbered
   
150.21   Base lines
   
150.22   Numbering
   
150.23   Designation of streets
   
150.24   Fixing number
   
150.25   Numbers required
   
150.26   Style of number
   
150.27   Duty to affix number
Fences, Walls and Similar Structures
   
150.40   Fences, hedges and walls on residential properties
   
150.41   Fences, hedges and walls on commercial properties
   
150.42   Fence required for swimming pools
   
150.43   Permit required for fences and walls
   
150.44   Abatement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01 UNIFORM BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the Uniform Building Code, 1991 Edition, as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 South Workman Mill Road,
Whittier, CA 90601, subject to any amendments set forth herein, to protect the
health, safety and general welfare by providing minimum standards for the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of buildings and other structures.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.04.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 150.02 UNIFORM HOUSING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the Uniform Housing Code, 1991 Edition, as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 South Workman Mill Road,
Whittier, CA 90601, subject to any amendments set forth herein, to protect and
safeguard life, limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating,
providing minimum standards, and controlling the use and occupancy, location
and maintenance of residential buildings and other structures within the town.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.08.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 150.03 UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the Uniform Fire Code Standards, 1991 Edition, as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 South Workman Mill Road,
Whittier, CA 90601 and the Western Fire Chiefs Association, 5360 South Workman
Mill Road, Whittier, CA 90601, subject to any amendments set forth herein, to
protect the public health, safety and welfare by providing minimum standards
relating to the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and providing greater safety and protection to the public from
conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings or
premises.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.12.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 150.04 NATIONAL ELECTRIC SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the National Electric Safety Code, 1990 Edition, as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc., 345 East 47th Street,
New York, NY 10017, subject to any amendments set forth herein, to protect the
public health, safety and welfare by providing minimum standards and
requirements pertaining to electrical installations.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 150.05 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1991 Edition, as published by the IAPMO
Publications Department, 20001 Walnut Drive South, Walnut, CA 91789-2825,
subject to any amendments set forth herein, to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare by providing minimum plumbing standards for new and
existing structures.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.16.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 150.06 DANGEROUS BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Art. 16, part 2, there is adopted by
reference the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1991
Edition, as published by the International Conference of Building Officials,
5360 South Workman Mill Road, Whittier, CA 90601, subject to any amendments set
forth herein, to protect the public health, safety and welfare by providing a
just, equitable and practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition
to any other remedy provided by the Building Code, Housing Code or otherwise
available by law, whereby buildings or structures that, from any cause,
endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the
general public or their occupants, and providing a process by which the same
may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished.
   (B)   In case of any conflict between such code adopted herein and any other
specific provision of this municipal code, the specific provision of the
municipal code shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 15.20.010) (Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-3-2017)
BUILDING NUMBERING
§ 150.20 LOTS NUMBERED.
   All erections or other property abutting on any street or avenue shall be
numbered.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.010) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.21 BASE LINES.
   Strohm Street shall constitute the base line for all numbering on the
streets running north or south, and Colorado Avenue shall constitute the base
line for all numbering on the streets running east and west.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.020) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.22 NUMBERING.
   (A)   Erections fronting streets from the east and fronting streets from the
south shall bear even numbers in their last figure.
   (B)   Erections fronting streets from the west and from the north shall bear
odd numbers in their last figure.
   (C)   Erections fronting streets running north and south shall be numbered
from the base line, such numbers shall be 100 at the base line and not to
exceed the number 150 at the end of the first block either north or south of
the base line, 200 at the beginning and not to exceed the number 250 at the end
of the second block, either north or south of the base line. Such system shall
be in numbering all the streets running north and south in the town.
   (D)   Erections fronting streets running east and west shall be numbered
from the base line, such numbers shall be 100 at the base line and not to
exceed the number 150 at the end of the first block either east or west of the
base line, 200 at the beginning and not to exceed the number 250 at the end of
the second block either east or west of the base line. Such system shall be
followed in numbering all of the streets running east and west in the town.
   (E)   Where streets intersect, but do not cross, such intersection shall for
numbering purposes be deemed the end of the block for both sides of the street.
Where streets do not have an intersection on either side of the street, then
300 feet from the last intersection shall be deemed the end of a block for both
sides of the street.
   (F)   In each block, each 25 feet of frontage shall be given a number,
except where lots vary from 25 feet in width, such lots shall be numbered to
conform to the size of the lot. Fractions may be used if necessary to designate
a building located on a fractional part of a 25-foot frontage.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.030) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.23 DESIGNATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   All lots or part of lots, houses and erections located on those
portions of any street extending north and south and being north of the Strohm
Street base line shall be known and designated as north and all south of the
Strohm Street base line shall be known and designated as south.
   (B)   All lots or parts of lots, houses and erections located on those
portions of any street extending east and west and being east of the Colorado
Avenue base line, shall be known and designated as east and all west of the
Colorado Avenue base line shall known and designated as west.
   (C)   The prefixes shall be placed before the proper name of the street as
West Strohm Street or North Colorado Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.040) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.24 FIXING NUMBER.
   In case of doubt or where a question arises as to the proper number to be
assigned to any lot or building, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall decide the
question and fix the number of such lot or building.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.050) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.25 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   On buildings now or hereafter erected and fronting on any street or alley
shall be conspicuously placed the number as provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.060) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.26 STYLE OF NUMBER.
   The number plate, placed upon any building shall be metal or wood, or the
number may be painted on the front of the building door, post, transom or other
place. The number shall be at least three inches in height and so as to be
easily seen from the street.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.070) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
§ 150.27 DUTY TO AFFIX NUMBER.
   (A)   It the owner or lessee of any building fails, refuses or neglects to
place the number, or replace it when necessary, the Town Clerk/Treasurer may
cause a notice to be personally served on the owner or lessee or mailed by
registered mail to his or her last known address, ordering him or her to place
or replace the number.
   (B)   The owner or lessee shall comply with the notice within ten days from
the date of service.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.080) (Ord. 167, passed - -1956)
FENCES, WALLS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES
§ 150.40 FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.
   Fences, hedges and walls shall be allowed upon any residential property
within the town, subject to the following conditions and requirements.
   (A)   Walls or fences may be made of rock, brick and mortar constructed
under industry accepted standards of masonry. Fences may also be constructed of
ornamental iron, chain link, wood picket, solid wood and fence plastic, as
generally used in the geographical area. No other style or material may be used
without the written consent of the Town Superintendent, or designated officer
or agent of the town, including use of plywood, pressboard, waferboard,
chipboard, cardboard, aluminum, wood pallets, tarp material, black plastic or
similar materials or styles. Further, no fence shall be constructed of barbed
wire or sharp pointed materials, be electrically charged or be visibly
displeasing or objectionable to the general public.
      (1)   Temporary electrical fences surrounding garden areas in back
portions of private lots may be used, only during the growing months.
      (2)   Temporary fencing including the use of wood or plastic snow fence
for the purposes of limiting snow drifting between November 1 and April 1,
protection of excavation and construction sites, and the protection of plants
during grading and construction and during special events is permitted for up
to 60 consecutive days. Snow fences constructed of wood and wire and/or plastic
shall be permitted only as temporary fences.
   (B)   Hedges may be grown of any plant, bush or tree typically used as a
hedge; provided that, the hedge is trimmed and complies with all applicable
town ordinances.
   (C)   All fences, hedges and walls shall be subject to the applicable
sections of any ordinance of the code of the town.
   (D)   No fence, hedge or wall shall be placed upon town property, including
any easement used by or granted to the town, without the written consent of the
town through its designated officer or agent.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to locate all
property lines prior to the placement of a fence, hedge or wall.
   (F)   Fences, hedges or walls shall not exceed four feet in height when such
fences are located within the front yard of the landowner’s property or within
25 feet of the town streets. Side and backyard fences shall not exceed eight
feet in height. In no event shall a fence, hedge or wall obstruct the vision of
automobile traffic on town streets, driveways or alleys, as determined by the
town. Fences may extend to 12 feet in height for tennis courts, or other
approved recreation purposes if a visual safety problem is not created by doing
so.
   (G)   Any such fence, hedge or wall which was constructed prior to the
adoption of this subchapter shall be allowed to remain where located unless the
town determines that the placement of the fence, hedge or wall constitutes a
safety problem, public nuisance, restricts the vision of automobile drivers and
bicyclists turning on a public street, turning into or out of an alley, is not
constructed of approved material, or the placement of the fence, hedge or wall
interferes with a town ordinance, policy or proper exercise of the town police
power. In such case, the town shall give written notice to the owner of the
fence, hedge or wall notifying the landowner to remove the fence, hedge or wall
for the reasons given, such notice to direct the fence, hedge or wall to be
removed within 30 days of the date of the notice.
   (H)   Any such fence, hedge or wall may not bock the natural flow of water
and have no restrictions to drainage or storm water on the property.
   (I)   All fences located around the back lots of properties must allow
access by gate to the town-owned electrical meters and all other town-owned
utilities. It is the property owner’s responsibility to replace and or repair
their fence if the town needs access to repair or replace any and all
utilities.
   (J)   Any and all fences, landscape walls or decorative posts shall be
erected so as to locate visible supports and other structural components toward
the subject property.
   (K)   Any and all fences, landscape walls or decorative posts shall be
maintained in a structurally sound and attractive manner as determined by the
Town Superintendent or designated officer or agent of the town.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 FENCES, HEDGES AND WALLS ON COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES.
   Fences, hedges and walls shall be allowed upon any commercial property
within the town, subject to the following conditions and requirements.
   (A)   All fences and walls may be constructed of the materials listed in §
150.40 of this chapter for residential property, along with the following
materials: security fencing topped by barbed wire, and strong barn (tin) may be
used. Galvanized fencing must be painted, no reflective metal may be used.
   (B)   All other regulations must be followed by commercial properties as
listed in §
150.40 of this chapter for residential properties.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 FENCE REQUIRED FOR SWIMMING POOLS.
   All properties with an outside swimming pool 24 inches deep or more must
install a fence with a self-locking gate around the pool area with the
following regulations:
   (A)   Any access gates through the enclosure open away from the swimming
pool and are self closing with a self-latching device placed no lower than 60
inches above the ground;
   (B)   A minimum fence height of 60 inches;
   (C)   A maximum vertical clearance from the ground to the bottom of the
enclosure of two inches;
   (D)   Gaps or voids, if any, do not allow passage of a sphere equal to or
greater than four inches in diameter; and
   (E)   An outside surface free of protrusions, cavities or other physical
characteristics that would serve as handholds or footholds that could enable a
child below the age of five years to climb over.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR FENCES AND WALLS.
   Prior to the construction or replacement of a fence or wall, the landowner
shall apply for a building permit on a form provided by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer. The nature of the fence or wall to be constructed, the style and
material of the fence or wall is required. A sketch of the proposed fence
location is also required. The cost of the permit is set by resolution, and
sales and use tax on the building materials will also be collected by the Town
Clerk/Treasurer at the time of the permit application.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009)
§ 150.44 ABATEMENT.
   Should any fence, hedge or wall be constructed, maintained, replaced or
planted within the town, either without the landowner first obtaining a permit
for a fence or wall and/or the fence, hedge or wall being in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter. The town may provide written notice to the
landowner requiring that the landowner take action to cease and desist
construction of the fence or wall, or that the landowner’s property be brought
into compliance with town ordinances within a reasonable time, such time not to
exceed 30 days from the date of the notice. If the landowner fails or refuses
to bring the offending property into compliance, the town may seek enforcement
through a citation to the Municipal Court. Remedies available to the town shall
include the right to bring the offending property into compliance and to access
the costs, including the town’s reasonable attorney fees, incurred in the
enforcement of this subchapter, to the offending property.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.27 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not
exceeding $25.
(Prior Code, § 12.20.090)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain
any property of cause or permit the same to be done in violation of the terms
of §§
150.40 through
150.44 of this chapter. Those persons or entities in violation of the
provisions of §§
150.40 through
150.44 of this chapter may be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each
violation of §§
150.40 through
150.44 of this chapter, for each day that the property is not in compliance
with the provisions of §§
150.40 through
150.44 of this chapter.
(Ord. 167, passed - -1956; Ord. 2-2009, passed 9-2-2009)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Restrictions
   
151.03   Non-conforming structures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure built in one, two or more sections that
is partially or entirely fabricated, formed or assembled at a location other
than the site of the completed home, that is designed for residential occupancy
in either a temporary or permanent location, that does not have motive power
and that is not licensed as a recreational vehicle.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 151.02 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Building permits must be obtained prior to the construction, moving or
alteration of any manufactured home in accordance with Chapter 150 of this code
of ordinances.
   (B)   No manufactured home shall be introduced into or placed within the
town, which is manufactured earlier than five years prior to its introduction
or placement into the town.
   (C)   A manufactured home must be set on excavated, backfilled, engineered
foundation enclosed at the perimeter. Such foundation shall meet or exceed the
standards established by the state for the placement of manufactured homes.
   (D)   The foundation for manufactured homes shall be similar in appearance
and durability to a masonry foundation of a site-built dwelling. The foundation
shall provide an anchoring system for the manufactured home that is totally
concealed under the structure.
   (E)   The manufactured home must have brick, wood or cosmetically equivalent
exterior siding on all exterior walls which provides a constant, continuous
facade from the bottom of the soffit (top of the wall section) downward to the
top of the exposed perimeter foundation. The exterior siding of the
manufactured home must have the same appearance as materials commonly used on
residential dwellings. Metal siding must be painted or anodized.
   (F)   The manufactured home must have a pitched roof with a pitch of at
least nominal three/twelve (3:12). The roof must be covered with shingles,
shakes or tile. A non-galvanized, colored metal roof may be used instead of
shingles. Eves of roof must extend at least one foot from the inner section of
the roof and the exterior walls.
   (G)   The manufactured home must have windows that are wood, vinyl coated or
anodized. The manufactured home must have color coordinated body and trim.
Colors of both the factory components and the site-built components shall be
the same.
   (H)   The main entrance of the manufactured home must face or be oriented
toward the street as the lot allows. As used in this section, STREET shall mean
the street of the home’s address. Mobile homes located in a mobile home park
are exempt from this requirement.
   (I)   The manufactured home shall be sited on the lot so that the placement
is consistent and compatible with the placement of other residential units in
the surrounding neighborhood.
   (J)   The transportation mechanisms, including the wheels, axles and hitch
must be removed from the manufactured home.
   (K)   All manufactured homes shall be certified pursuant to the
aforementioned National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards
Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as amended.
   (L)   The manufactured home must meet or exceed all equivalent performance-
engineering standards to the same extent required for other single-family
housing units.
   (M)   All manufactured homes shall be inspected by the town’s Building
Inspector prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the town.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any manufactured home existing in the town upon the date of this chapter,
which does not conform to the specifications and requirements of this chapter
may not be moved from one location in the town to another and may not be
modified, enlarged or altered, except in a manner conforming to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-4-2019) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $300. Each day of a continuing violation shall
be deemed a separate violation. It shall be the duty of the town’s Building
Inspector to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to bring to the
attention of the proper enforcement officers of the town any violations
thereof, and when required for the proper enforcement of this chapter, it shall
be the duty of the town’s Building Inspector to make and file with the Police
Department a written complaint against any such violator.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-4-2019)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS
AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Playing in streets
   
152.02   Throwing trash onto streets
   
152.03   Cleaning and snow removal
   
152.04   Heavy vehicles and machinery
   
152.05   Curblines and tree setbacks
   
152.06   Concrete crossings
Sidewalk Construction
   
152.20   Specifications generally
   
152.21   Repair or rebuilding specifications
   
152.22   Excavation specifications
   
152.23   Filling specifications
   
152.24   Concrete bottom specifications
   
152.25   Top specifications
   
152.26   Joints specifications
   
152.27   Curb specifications
   
152.28   Resolution requiring two-inch expansion joint
   
152.29   Constructing obstructions; repairing under supervision, order of town
officials
   
152.30   Owner responsibility; town responsibility
   
152.31   Adoption of ordinance requiring sidewalk construction
   
152.32   Notice to repair/construct; period of time
   
152.33   Failure to repair/construct; assessment to property owner for work
done by town; lien
   
152.34   Statement of cost acceptance; notice of assessment; hearing;
collection as taxes
   
152.35   Suit for collection
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PLAYING IN STREETS.
   No person or persons shall roll any hoop, play ball, fly a kite or engage in
any other game or amusement tending to annoy any person near thereto, while in
or upon any street or alley or other public place within the town.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010) (Ord. 35, passed - -1911) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 THROWING TRASH ONTO STREETS.
   No person shall place, throw, dump or leave within the town, any fuel,
ashes, paper, glass, cans, boxing or refuse of any sort or kind in any street
or alley or in any place where the same can be carried by the wind into any
street or alley, nor shall any person place, dump or throw any fuel or ashes in
any place other than a pit or enclosure where the contents are protected from
the wind.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020) (Ord. 35, passed - -1911) Penalty, see §
152.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
91.01 through
91.08.
   Solid waste, see
Ch. 53.
   Trash as a fire hazard, see §
92.02.
§ 152.03 CLEANING AND SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Snow removal on sidewalks by owner required. All persons, companies,
corporations owning or occupying premises in the town shall be required to
hereafter keep the sidewalks in front of and adjacent to the tenements or
grounds owned and occupied by them in the town, free and clear of ice, mud,
dirt and rubbish and filth, and after any fall of snow or accumulation of ice,
shall cause the snow or accumulation of ice to be removed from the sidewalk
with 12 hours from and after the snow has ceased to fall, and if they fail to
remove the accumulation of snow or ice within the time prescribed, the town, by
its duly authorized officers may, without further notice, remove the same at
the expense of the property owner or occupant, and such failure on the part of
the owner or occupant shall be deemed a violation of this section, and may be
punished as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.010)
   (B)   Removal of weeds, rubbish and dirt required. All persons, firms or
corporations are required to keep the streets in front of the tenements or
grounds or lots occupied or owned by them free and clear of weeds, to the
center of the highway, and to keep all premises owned by them free and clear of
rubbish, dirt and filth.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.020)
   (C)   Removal by tenants nearest sidewalks.
      (1)   Where houses and other buildings are occupied by several tenants,
it shall be the duty of the person or persons occupying the tenements, store or
stores nearest the sidewalks, gutters, ditches or streets, as well as the
owners of the property to comply with the requirements of divisions (A) and (B)
above.
      (2)   Where the basement of any house or other building reaches below the
level of the ground, for the purpose of this section, the second story shall be
deemed the nearest as aforesaid, and the basement or first story, the nearest
after the second story; provided that, no such tenant shall be required to keep
clear as aforesaid any such sidewalks or streets for a greater number of feet
than may be contiguous or opposite to any premises or any part of premises
occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.030)
   (D)   Removal by owner if unoccupied. Where any premises or parts of
premises are not occupied in any manner as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of
the owner thereof to comply with the requirements of divisions (A) through (C)
above, so far as no other provisions are made.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.040)
   (E)   Removal by agent if owner non-resident. In the event the owner of any
premises so unoccupied is a non-resident of the town and absent from the town,
any responsible agent shall comply with the requirements of this section, and
any notice served upon the agent shall be notice to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.050)
(Ord. 60, passed - -1918) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 HEAVY VEHICLES AND MACHINERY.
   It shall be the duty of all persons, associations and corporations operating
or moving steam threshing machines, steam engines, tractors or other heavy
vehicles or other heavy machinery of whatever character over or along the
streets of the town, and over the crossings, crosswalks, bridges, culverts or
causeways within the town, to use a sufficient number of heavy planks whenever
necessary to protect such sidewalks, crossings, crosswalks, bridges, culverts
or causeways from being in any manner broken or in any way injured by the
transportation of the vehicles over and across the same; and no vehicles
abovementioned or heavy-loaded wagons shall be driven across walks at any other
place, except at regular crossing.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.010) (Ord. 57, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 CURBLINES AND TREE SETBACKS.
   (A)   Curbs.
      (1)   Specifications.
         (a)   All curbs hereafter constructed throughout the town shall be
constructed at established grades and at certain uniform distances from
property lines, such distances to be for the several streets and avenues
throughout the town as follows:
            1.   On Colorado Avenue north of Chase Street, 15 feet from
property line;
            2.   On Colorado Avenue, south of Chase Street, 12 feet from
property line; and
            3.   On all streets which are 80 feet between property lines, curbs
shall be constructed 25 feet from property line.
         (b)   On all streets which are sixty feet from property line, the curb
shall be constructed fifteen feet from the property line, with the following
exceptions:
            1.   On Fletcher Street, between Logan and Washington Avenues,
curbs shall constructed ten feet from the property line;
            2.   On Logan and Washington Avenues, where curbs shall be
constructed ten feet from property line;
            3.   On Strohm Street between Logan and Washington Avenues, where
curbs shall be constructed ten feet from property line; and
            4.   On Logan Avenue from the north side of the right-of-way of the
Burlington Northern Railroad to the north line of the town, where curbs shall
be constructed 15 feet from the property line.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.010)
      (2)   Reconstruction according to lines established herein. Any person
who hereafter builds or constructs any curb on any street or avenue in the town
at a distance from a property line contrary to the provisions of this section
applying to such street or avenue may be required by resolution of the Board of
Trustees at any regular or special meeting, to tear out such curb and
reconstruct same at the line as is laid down in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.020)
   (B)   Trees.
      (1)   Specifications. All shade and ornamental trees hereafter planted or
set out by property owners within the town shall be planted or set ten feet
from property lines.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.030)
      (2)   Any further planting to comply. Any person who shall hereafter
plant or set out any trees along streets or avenues in the town, contrary to
specifications of this section, may be required by resolution of the Board of
Trustees at any regular meeting to remove the trees to the required distance
from the property line.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.040)
   (C)   Not applicable to curbs or trees already in place; exceptions. This
section shall not affect the location of any shade or ornamental trees or the
location of any curb already constructed within the town unless it appears to
the Board of Trustees that such trees or such curbs are placed so as to cause
interference with adjoining property owners or so as to seriously mar the
appearance of any such street or avenue and in such event any person may make
complaint to the Board of Trustees and the Board of Trustees may, upon hearing
such complaint and reply thereto, order the shade or ornamental trees or curb
to be moved or to be torn out and rebuilt at the proper distance from the
property line as laid down in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.16.050)
(Ord. 76, passed - -; Ord. 109, passed - -; Ord. 118, passed - -1934) Penalty,
see §
152.99
Cross-reference:
   Trees generally, see
Ch. 153.
§ 152.06 CONCRETE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Generally. All concrete crossings to be constructed in the future
shall be composed, laid and built in accordance with the specifications and
rules set out in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.010)
   (B)   Composition. The crossing shall be composed of five parts clean creek
gravel of a size to pass through a one-inch screen and one part of best
portland cement or of a cement of equal grade.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.020)
   (C)   Mixture.
      (1)   Wet. The gravel and cement shall be mixed in a machine with water
enough to form what is known as a wet mixture wet enough to run off a shovel,
but not wet enough to form a slop.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.030)
      (2)   Uniformity. The crossings shall be of the same kind of mixture
throughout with no surface of a finer mixture.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.040)
   (D)   Width. The crossing shall be not less than four feet in width on the
top and there shall be a six-inch slope on each side in addition, making five
feet over all.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.050)
   (E)   Depth. The crossings shall not be less than six inches in depth at all
points, including the sloping shoulders which shall be made full depth and not
feathered to an edge.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.060)
   (F)   Conformity with crown. The crossings shall conform to the construction
of the street so as to have the same crown as shall be provided for the street
by survey of same.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.070)
   (G)   Tamping. The crossings shall be well tamped down by hand so as to be a
compact mass of concrete.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.080)
   (H)   With gutter or drain. In the event the Board of Trustees orders any
crossings to be built with a gutter or drain, then such crossings shall conform
to the specifications of this section and, in addition, be provided with a
gutter beneath same constructed in accordance with specifications to be
furnished by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.090)
   (I)   Supervision. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to
supervise the laying of all concrete crossings and to pass upon same and no
such crossing shall be paid for by the Board of Trustees until such
Commissioner reports to the Board of Trustees that the crossing was laid in all
respects in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.28.100)
(Ord. 73, passed - -1920) Penalty, see §
152.99
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.20 SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All sidewalks on Colorado Avenue or Main Street, between the center of
the Burlington Northern Railroad right-of-way and Strohm Street on Colorado
Avenue, and all sidewalks on Fletcher Street and Raymond Street, between Logan
Street and Washington Street, at right angles with Colorado Avenue, shall be
eight feet in width.
   (B)   All sidewalks on Strohm Street from Logan to Washington shall be six
feet in width and shall be so constructed that the outer edge of the walk shall
be on the lot line of the front line of the lot along which the sidewalk is
constructed.
   (C)   (1)   All other sidewalks within the town shall be of a width of four
feet, and shall be so constructed that the outer edge of the walk shall be two
feet from the front line of their lot along which the sidewalk is constructed,
except in such certain blocks of the town exclusive of Colorado Avenue where
sidewalks have already been constructed prior to the date of the passage of the
ordinance codified in this subchapter, at a different distance from the front
line of the lot and on said blocks only.
      (2)   The distance from the front line of the lot shall correspond to the
walks already constructed.
   (D)   All walks shall be constructed upon the grade line of the street as
established by ordinances with an even slope toward the gutter or curbstone of
0.12 of one foot to keep the sidewalk free from water, the grade for the
sidewalk to be furnished by the Street Commissioner or the Board of Trustees on
application therefor.
   (E)   All sidewalks shall be constructed in the same manner, and on streets
where the grade is not established by ordinance.
   (F)   They shall be constructed on a uniform grade to be furnished by and
under the supervision of the Street Commissioner or Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.010) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
Cross-reference:
   Building and construction, see
Ch. 150.
§ 152.21 REPAIR OR REBUILDING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks within the town, as now defined or hereafter extended by
ordinance, shall be constructed, widened, repaired or rebuilt with cement or
brick only, and such sidewalks, widened, repaired or rebuilt upon Main Street
or Colorado Avenue within the fire limits of the town shall be built, widened,
repaired or rebuilt with a curbing on the outside of the cement, not less than
five inches in thickness and not less than 16 inches wide nor less than four
feet long.
   (B)   Sidewalks outside of the fire limits and the others within, not
covered by the above, shall be constructed, widened, repaired, or rebuilt,
shall, if constructed of cement, be constructed, widened, repaired or rebuilt
as set out in §§
152.22 through
152.27 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.020) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.22 EXCAVATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   The ground on the side of the walk shall be excavated not less than seven
inches below the grade line for a walk four feet wide and narrower, and not
less than nine inches below the grade line for a walk wider than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.030) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.23 FILLING SPECIFICATIONS.
   The excavation shall be filled for four inches below grade line, with a
filling of sand and gravel well-packed.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.040) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.24 CONCRETE BOTTOM SPECIFICATIONS.
   The concrete bottom where cement is used shall be composed of six parts sand
and gravel to one part portland cement or other cement of equal grade, and laid
on the filling mentioned in §
152.23 of this chapter, and packed three-fourths of an inch below the grade
line.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.050) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.25 TOP SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The top shall be composed of two parts sand screened not finer than
number five and one part of portland cement or other cement of equal grade, and
spread not less than three-fourths of an inch thick on the concrete bottom
immediately after being laid and packed in place.
   (B)   The top coat shall be struck to a true plane with a straight edge, or
troweled smooth, or both.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.060) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.26 JOINTS SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Cement walks four feet wide shall have expansion joints not farther
than five feet apart.
   (B)   Cement walks six or eight feet wide shall have expansion joints
cutting the walk into blocks not larger than five feet by five feet.
   (C)   No walk shall be cut into blocks larger than 30 square feet.
   (D)   Joint space to be not less than one-fourth of an inch clear through.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.070) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.27 CURB SPECIFICATIONS.
   All concrete walks wider than four feet shall have a curb six inches thick,
and extend below the grade line 12 inches, or deeper if necessary, to reach
virgin soil. The curb is to be of the same material as the walk.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.080) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.28 RESOLUTION REQUIRING TWO-INCH EXPANSION JOINT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the town in regular session adopted a
resolution requiring at least a two-inch expansion joint between any cement
work and the curb; this joint to be filled with asphalt to protect curbing from
breaking from expansion.
   (B)   This resolution is in effect after the first publication and applies
to all cement work within the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.090) (Res. passed 3-6-1939)
§ 152.29 CONSTRUCTING OBSTRUCTIONS; REPAIRING UNDER SUPERVISION, ORDER OF TOWN
OFFICIALS.
   No scale stands, hitch racks, hitching posts or other obstruction shall
hereafter be erected, kept or maintained in front of any sidewalk provided in
this subchapter to be six or eight feet in width, and no walks shall be
constructed, widened, repaired or rebuilt in the town, without notice to and
under the supervision of the Board of Trustees or Street Commissioner who shall
be by the owner notified thereof and in case the same is not provided for by
ordinance, shall designate the width and grade, and how the same shall be
constructed, as provided in this subchapter, and in cases where a sidewalk has
been broken, worn or defective, it shall be the duty of the Commissioner to
notify the owner, agent or person having charge of the property adjoining the
sidewalk needing repair and to order the necessary repairs made thereon within
a reasonable time, which shall be stated in the notice, and any person so
notified shall repair the walk within the time stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.100) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY; TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   All sidewalks in the town and the necessary grading for the same shall be
constructed, widened, repaired and when necessary rebuilt, by the owners of the
property fronting or abutting on the same, at the expense of the owner and the
necessary grading for sidewalks shall be deemed and included as a part of the
construction of the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.110) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.31 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE REQUIRING SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever it appears to the Board of Trustees by petition or otherwise that a
sidewalk should be constructed, widened, repaired or rebuilt within the town,
it may, by ordinance, order the construction, widening, repairing or
reconstruction, or the same by the owner of the property fronting on the same
and at the owner’s expense; provided that, the concurrence of at least four of
the members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be necessary to adopt such
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.120) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.32 NOTICE TO REPAIR/CONSTRUCT; PERIOD OF TIME.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Trustees directs or orders the construction,
widening, repairing or reconstruction of any sidewalk by ordinance as
aforesaid, it shall state therein the period of time within which the owner may
have to construct, widen, repair or reconstruct such sidewalk, which period
shall be not less than ten days, nor more than 20 days from the date of the
passage of the ordinance codified in this subchapter, and the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall immediately notify all owners of property fronting on the same,
their agents or persons occupying or having charge of such property, in
writing, of such order, stating therein the period of time within which the
owner may have to construct, widen, repair or reconstruct the sidewalk.
   (B)   If the owner, agent or person having charge is absent or unknown, the
notice may be served by posting the same in a conspicuous place on such lot or
premises, and mailing a copy of the notice, properly stamped and addressed, to
the owner at his or her present post office address, and the posting of the
notice and mailing a copy as stated shall be deemed and held to be a complete
service of the same.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.130) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.33 FAILURE TO REPAIR/CONSTRUCT; ASSESSMENT TO PROPERTY OWNER FOR WORK
DONE BY TOWN; LIEN.
   If the property owners shall not construct, widen, repair or reconstruct the
sidewalks or other improvements, according to the requirements of such
ordinance within the time therein named after service of such notice upon them,
the Board of Trustees may order that such sidewalk be constructed, widened,
repaired or reconstructed by or under the direction of the Street Commissioner
and assess the cost thereof against the property fronting upon the sidewalk,
and the amount so assessed shall be the cost of construction, widening,
repairing or reconstruction of the sidewalk, and shall include the cost of the
service and publication of notice, and all expenses made necessary by these
proceedings and the amount so assessed shall be a lien upon the property until
the same is paid.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.140) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.34 STATEMENT OF COST ACCEPTANCE; NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; HEARING;
COLLECTION AS TAXES.
   (A)   The statement of the Street Commissioner or the Board of Trustees of
the cost and expense of the sidewalk as apportioned by the Board of Trustees,
or by him or her, under its direction shall be accepted as correct and, if such
assessment is not paid within ten days after making the same, the Town Clerk/
Treasurer shall cause a notice of such assessment to be given to the owners,
and all other persons interested in such property as can reasonably be
ascertained, by publication in a newspaper, published in the town for two
successive weeks being two publications only, and the notice shall state the
amount assessed against each lot or other subdivision of property, and
designate a time and place, not less than 30 days after the first publication,
when the Board of Trustees will hear any objections.
   (B)   The owner and other persons interested in the property shall make, and
the Board of Trustees may correct and perfect any such assessment improperly or
incorrectly made. The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall certify the assessment to the
Assessor of the county, or other proper assessing officer then having
possession of the tax list, to be by him or her placed on the tax list for the
current year, and to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are
collected, with a 10% penalty thereon to defray the cost of collection.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.150) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.35 SUIT FOR COLLECTION.
   If the Board of Trustees so elects, it may bring suit in any court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the lien and collect the assessment.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.160) (Ord. 50, passed - -1917)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
152.01 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined any sum not exceeding
$10 and costs of conviction, to be enforced and collected in the manner
provided by law therefor.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.010)
   (C)   Any violation of §
152.02 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a fine of not more than
$25 and costs of conviction, to be enforced and collected in the manner
provided by law therefor.
(Prior Code, § 12.04.020)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with any of the
provisions of §
152.03 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not less than $1, nor more than $25, and
costs of suit; and, provided further that, the town may cause all the aforesaid
work or duties to be done by the duly authorized person or persons acting for
the town, and the expense thereof shall be charged up to and assessed and taxed
against the property or properties of the persons who fail to comply with the
provisions aforesaid, the sum or any sums thus expended may be recovered
against the owner or occupant of the property, convicted of a violation of §
152.03 of this chapter in a civil action brought for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 12.08.060)
   (E)   (1)   If any person, association or corporation destroys or injures
any sidewalk, crosswalk, bridge, culvert or causeway within the town, by the
transportation over the same of any of the heavy machinery or vehicles as set
out in §
152.04 of this chapter, or in any way or manner violates §
152.04 of this chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in a sum of not less than $5, nor more than $100,
and costs of suit and shall also be liable for all damages occasioned thereby,
and for the necessary cost of rebuilding and repairing the sidewalk, crosswalk,
bridge, culvert or causeway so injured.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.020)
      (2)   It is further provided that the penalty and damages provided for by
§
152.04 of this chapter may be, at the option of the Board of Trustees,
recovered in a civil action brought in a court of record in the county for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 12.12.030)
   (F)   Any person or persons who fail to make such walk or repairs after
notice, per §
152.29 of this chapter, or shall be guilty of a violation of any of the
provisions of §§
152.20 through
152.35 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not
less than $50 and costs of suit.
(Prior Code, § 12.24.100)
(Ord. 35, passed - -1911; Ord. 50, passed - -1917; Ord. 57, passed - -1917;
Ord. 60, passed - -1918)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Maintenance of trees and shrubs
   
153.02   Removal of dead or dangerous trees and roots
   
153.03   Control of disease or insect infestation
   
153.04   Compliance with notices
   
153.05   Delivery of notice
   
153.06   Failure of property owner to do required work
   
153.07   Assessment of delinquent costs
   
153.08   Administration
   
153.09   Right of entry
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of property abutting the
right-of-way of any street, alley and sidewalk or other public place to
maintain and care for all trees and shrubs on such property owner to perform
such maintenance on any tree or shrub of the right-of-way abutting such owner’s
property as may be necessary.
      (2)   The town shall further have the power to require any property owner
to trim, remove or protect any tree or shrub on such owner’s property which may
project beyond the property line onto or over the right-of-way abutting the
same.
      (3)   Trees and shrubs must not obstruct the clear view at any
intersection. A CLEAR VIEW is defined as 150 feet in both directions of the
intersecting road from a point of ten feet from the beginning of the
intersection.
      (4)   The town shall cause a notice requiring such work be done within
the reasonable time specified in this notice.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as requiring the owner of
property to trim any trees or shrubs when such trimming is required on public
ways because of town utility lines, traffic-control signs or devices, and it
shall be the duty of the town to do any trimming on public ways as required for
such utilities or signs or traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.010) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 REMOVAL OF DEAD OR DANGEROUS TREES AND ROOTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any property abutting the right-
of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place to remove any dead
or dying trees or limbs or roots that are heaving sidewalks that are dangerous
to life, limb or property located upon the premises of such owner or upon the
right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place abutting the
property of such owner of property.
   (B)   The town shall give notice to the property owner for such removal when
required. All newly cut trees shall be removed from city limits for a period of
18 months.
   (C)   No wood shall be brought into the city limits that has been cut less
than 18 months. Such work specified in such notice.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.020) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 CONTROL OF DISEASE OR INSECT INFESTATION.
   Upon the discovery of any destructive or communicable disease or other
pestilence which endangers the growth, health, life or well-being of trees or
plants, or wood piles in the town, or which is capable of causing an epidemic
spread of communicable disease or insect infestation such as Dutch Elm Disease,
the town shall, at once, cause written notice to be served upon the owner of
the property abutting the right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place upon which such diseased tree is situated, which notice shall
require such property owner to eradicate, remove or otherwise control such
condition within a reasonable time to be specified in such notice.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.030) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.04 COMPLIANCE WITH NOTICES.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the requirements of any
notice given pursuant to this chapter within the time specified in such notice.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.040) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 DELIVERY OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notice may be served by delivering a copy of such notice to the
record owner of such property or be leaving a copy of such notice at such
owner’s usual place of abode with some member of his or her family over the age
of 18 years.
   (B)   In case there is more than one owner of a property, service upon any
owner shall be adequate service upon all co-owners.
   (C)   If the owner of any property cannot be found in the town, service may
be made by mailing a copy thereof to his or her last known address, and by
posting a copy of such notice in a conspicuous place on the premises involved.
   (D)   Service by mail shall be completed five days after the date the notice
is deposited in the mail and posted on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.050) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.06 FAILURE OF PROPERTY OWNER TO DO REQUIRED WORK.
   (A)   If any work required is not accomplished within the time specified in
the notice, the town shall cause the work to be done and the cost of the same
shall be collected from the property owner.
   (B)   Any notice given pursuant to this chapter shall state that if the work
required is not done within the time specified, the town will cause the same to
be done at the expense of the property owner.
   (C)   If the town causes the work to be done, it shall submit the cost
thereof to the Town Clerk/Treasurer who shall send a statement in such amount
to the property owner at his or her last known address.
   (D)   Any such statement shall be paid by the property owner within 30 days
and any unpaid amount shall bear interest at the legal rate.
   (E)   If any property owner is unable to pay the cost of such work within 30
days, he or she may enter into an agreement for the payment of the same monthly
installments over a period not to exceed five years; and the unpaid cost shall,
by such agreement, be made a lien to the lands of such property owner.
   (F)   Any unpaid balance due under such agreement shall bear interest at the
legal rate.
   (G)   The agreement shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk and
County Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.060) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.07 ASSESSMENT OF DELINQUENT COSTS.
   (A)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall not later than July 1 each year, report
to the Board of Trustees as to any costs for work done by the town under this
chapter which have now been paid by the property owner or made the subject of
an agreement with the property owner as authorized.
   (B)   Notice shall be mailed by the Town Clerk/Treasurer to each property
owner, which notice shall state the amount claimed to be due from such property
owner, the date, place and time that the report will be made to the Board of
Trustees, the description of the property to be assessed, a description of the
work performed, and that the Board of Trustees will be asked to assess the cost
of work, together with an amount to cover interest, advertising fees and cost
of collection against the property of such owner.
   (C)   Such notice shall be mailed at least ten days, and not more than 45
days, before the date the report will be made to the Board of Trustees. Such
assessment shall be certified by the Town Clerk/Treasurer to the County
Treasurer and shall be on a parity with the tax lien for general state, county,
city, town or school taxes.
   (D)   Such assessment shall become delinquent on September 1, after the same
time or times, in the same manner and under all the same conditions and
penalties and with the same effect as prescribed by the general laws of the
state for the sale of real estate in default of payment of general taxes.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.070) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the superintendent of the
town or such person as the Board of Trustees appoints and shall also be known
as town’s “Tree Ordinance Enforcement Officer”.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.080) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In order to accomplish the purpose of this chapter, the town’s designated
official is authorized to go upon any property in the town for the purpose of
inspecting trees, shrubs and other plants.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.090) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation under this chapter will be punishable by fine, pursuant to this
municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 12.32.100) (Ord. 89-2, passed - -1989; Ord. 2020-2, passed 5-4-
2020)
CHAPTER 154: AIRPORT
Section
   
154.01   Power to acquire
   
154.02   Maintenance; fees
   
154.03   Rules and regulations
   
154.04   Airport Manager; duties; salary
   
154.05   Aircraft and pilot certification
   
154.06   Compliance with federal regulations required
   
154.07   Careless or reckless operation prohibited
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 POWER TO ACQUIRE.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to acquire to purchase or
otherwise acquire, establish, construct, own, control, lease, equip, improve,
maintain and operate an airport and landing field for the use of airplanes and
other aircraft without the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964)
§ 154.02 MAINTENANCE; FEES.
   (A)   The Haxtun Airport shall be maintained, operated and controlled by the
Board of Trustees or by an Airport Committee appointed by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall from time to time, by resolution,
establish uniform schedule of fees to be charged for the use of the airport.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.020) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964)
§ 154.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt rules and regulations governing the use
and operation of the Haxtun Airport and any violation of such rules and
regulations shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.030) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964)
§ 154.04 AIRPORT MANAGER; DUTIES; SALARY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may employ an Airport Manager or Superintendent,
who shall, subject to the direction and control of the Board of Trustees,
manage and control the operation and maintenance of the airport, and enforce
the ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining thereto.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may pay a salary to the Airport Manager or it
may provide for his or her compensation by allowing him or her to retain
certain designated airport fees as salary.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ such other personnel as it deems
necessary or desirable for the operation of the airport.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.040) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964)
§ 154.05 AIRCRAFT AND PILOT CERTIFICATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate any aircraft within or over the
corporate limits of the city or into or from the Haxtun Airport unless such
person holds a currently valid airman certificate issued by the Federal
Aviation Administration and unless such aircraft carries therein a currently
effective aircraft registration certificate issued by the Federal Aviation
Administrator and a currently effective certificate of airworthiness issued by
the Federal Aviation Administration.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.050) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate any aircraft within or over the
town or into or from the Haxtun Airport in violation of any rule or regulation
of the Federal Aviation Administration, including those relating to air
traffic, lights and other safety devices and equipment, or minimum altitude of
flight.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.060) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.07 CARELESS OR RECKLESS OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate any aircraft over the corporate
limits of the town or over the Haxtun Airport in a careless or reckless manner
so as to endanger life or property.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.070) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100,
for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 13.16.010) (Ord. 193, passed - -1964)
CHAPTER 155: RESIDENTIAL SOLAR SYSTEMS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Eligibility
   
155.03   Request
   
155.04   System effects
   
155.05   System upgrades
   
155.06   Agreements
   
155.07   Codes and permits
   
155.08   Certificate of completion
   
155.09   Normal operation
   
155.10   Character of service
   
155.11   Code requirements
   
155.12   Generating facility control and operation
   
155.13   Fault current contribution
   
155.14   Reclosing coordination
   
155.15   Disconnect device
   
155.16   Standards for interconnection, safety and operating reliability
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any entity interconnected to the town’s distribution system for
the purpose of receiving retail electric power service from town’s distribution
system.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The town’s facilities and equipment used to transmit
electricity to ultimate usage points, such as homes and industries directly
from nearby generators or from interchanges with higher voltage transmission
networks which transport bulk power over longer distances and from town’s
wholesale supplier.
   ELECTRIC WHOLESALE SUPPLIER or EWS. The town’s total requirements electric
wholesale supplier.
   FACILITIES INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT or CUSTOMER-OWNED GENERATION FACILITIES
INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT. The meaning set forth in §
155.06 of this chapter.
   GENERATING FACILITY. The customer’s device for the conversion of renewable
generation of solar energy to electricity, as identified in the interconnection
application and able to be certified as a qualifying facility under the
definitions of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA, Pub. Law No.
95-617, 92 Stat. 3117, enacted 11-9-1978), a United States act passed as part
of the National Energy Act, and as amended.
   GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE. Any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or
approved by a significant portion of the electric industry during the relevant
time period, or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise
of reasonable judgment in light of the facts known at the time the decision was
made, could have been expected to accomplish the desired result at a reasonable
cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety and
expedition. GOOD UTILITY PRACTICE is not intended to be limited to the optimum
practice, method or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather to be
acceptable practices, methods or acts generally accepted in the region.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY. Federal, state, local or other governmental
regulatory or administrative agency, court, commission, department, board or
other governmental subdivision, legislature, rule-making board, tribunal or
other governmental authority having jurisdiction over the parties, their
respective facilities or the respective services they provide, and exercising
or entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, police or taxing
authority, or power; provided, however, that, such term does not include the
customer or any affiliate thereof.
   INTERCONNECTION APPLICATION. The customer’s request to interconnect a new
generating facility, or to increase the capacity of, or make a material
modification to the operating characteristics of an existing generating
facility that is interconnected with the utility’s electrical system.
   INTERCONNECTION STANDARD. All the provisions of this chapter, and related
forms other documents described in this chapter.
   INVERTER. An apparatus that converts direct current into alternating
current.
   QUALIFYING FACILITY. A generation facility that is a QUALIFYING FACILITY
under 18 C.F.R. part 292, subpart B, and is proposed to be used by an
interconnection customer to generate electricity that operates in parallel with
the electric distribution system or local electric power system. QUALIFYING
FACILITIES that are not generating facilities hereunder may qualify for
interconnection with the town’s utility services under provisions of the Public
Utilities Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), but the terms and conditions of
interconnection shall be determined on a case-by-case basis.
   SYSTEM UPGRADES. The additions, modifications and upgrades to the town’s
distribution system at or beyond the point of interconnection to the generating
facility and render the transmission service necessary to affect the
interconnection customer’s wholesale sale of electricity in interstate
commerce. Distribution upgrades do not include interconnection facilities.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.02 ELIGIBILITY AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Interconnection to the town’s electrical utility shall be granted only
to new or existing customers in good standing under town’s electric service
schedules.
   (B)   (1)   For eligibility for interconnection to the town’s electrical
utility, a generating facility shall have a rated output 100 kilowatts (kW-DC)
or less.
      (2)   Eligibility of a generating facility with rated output of greater
than 100 kW-DC shall be determined by the town on a case-by-case basis
regarding voltage level of connection, metering and purchase of output.
However, a similar facilities interconnection agreement will be required.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.03 REQUEST.
   (A)   A customer desiring to interconnect a qualifying generating facility
must complete and return to the town an application for interconnection, on
forms provided by the town with payment of a $250 processing fee. The town may
require additional details or clarifications as needed to properly evaluate the
application.
   (B)   The town requires, on behalf of its EWS, that the customer provide the
capability to deliver hourly generator AC output meter readings (net of any
generator auxiliary usage) to the EWS. The customer shall install a meter
socket that meets the EWS’s specification between the inverter and the AC
connection to the customer’s load panel. The town shall have the right to
install such additional metering equipment as it deems necessary for the
collection of data for research purposes, which metering will be furnished and
paid for by the town.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.04 SYSTEM EFFECTS.
   (A)   The town and the EWS will analyze the overall impact of the proposed
generating facility on the transmission and distribution system.
   (B)   Such analysis will be based on good utility practice to determine
thermal effects, voltage fluctuations, power quality, system stability and
other relevant information.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.05 SYSTEM UPGRADES.
   As a result of the above analysis, the town and the EWS will provide the
customer with a cost estimate and projected time frame for any system upgrades
that may be necessary to accommodate the generating facility.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.06 AGREEMENTS.
   Once the customer, the town and EWS have identified and mutually agreed upon
the scope of the overall project, including the generating facility, system
upgrades and estimated costs, the customer and town shall execute the customer-
owned generation facilities interconnection agreement, which will be provided
to customer by the town.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.07 CODES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for procuring all building,
operating and environmental permits that are required by the town any other
governmental authority having jurisdiction for the type of generating facility
and for the necessary ancillary structures to be installed.
   (B)   The equipment shall meet the standards listed in §
155.16 of this chapter.
   (C)   The construction and facilities shall meet all applicable Building and
Electrical Codes.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.08 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   Upon completion of the generating facility and prior to its normal
operation, the customer shall provide a signed copy of the certificate of
completion to the town and the EWS, on forms provided by the town.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.09 NORMAL OPERATIONS.
   The customer may begin normal operation of the generating facility upon
completion of all documentation and receipt of written approval from the town
and the EWS.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.10 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The electrical service provided by the EWS shall be 60 cycles per second (60
Hertz) alternating current (AS) at supply voltage and number of phases that
apply under the town rate schedule and the metering requirements established by
EWS.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.11 CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The generating facility shall meet all requirements established by the
National Electrical Code (NEC), National Electrical Safety Code (NESC),
Institution of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In
addition, manufacturer’s ownership, operating and maintenance manuals shall be
reviewed and accepted by the customer, the town and the EWS prior to beginning
operation.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.12 GENERATING FACILITY CONTROL AND OPERATION.
   The control system of the generating facility shall comply with all IEEE
specifications and standards, including, but not limited to, the following.
   (A)   Power output control system shall automatically disconnect from town’s
electric utility service source upon loss of service voltage and not reconnect
until service voltage has been restored by the town.
   (B)   Power output control system shall ride through voltage fluctuations,
but shall automatically disconnect from the town’s electric utility service
source if the customer-owned generation voltage fluctuates beyond plus or minus
10%. The customer shall provide adequate protection to prevent damage to the
town’s electrical system from inadvertent over/under voltage conditions
originating in customer’s generating facility and to protect the customer’s
generating facility from inadvertent over/under voltage conditions originating
from the town’s electrical system.
   (C)   Power output control system shall ride through frequency fluctuations,
but shall automatically disconnect from town’s electric utility service if
frequency fluctuates beyond plus or minus two cycles per second from 60 cycles
per second (Hertz).
   (D)   Inverter output distortion shall meet IEEE requirements.
   (E)   The generating facility shall meet the applicable IEEE standards
concerning impacts to the distribution system with regard to harmonic
distortion, voltage flicker, power factor, direct current injection and
electromagnetic interference.
   (F)   The voltage produced by the customer’s generating facility must be
balanced if it is a three-phase installation. The customer is responsible for
protecting the generating facility from an inadvertent phase unbalance in the
town’s electric utility service voltage.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.13 FAULT CURRENT CONTRIBUTION.
   The generating facility shall be equipped with protective equipment designed
to automatically disconnect during fault current conditions and remain
disconnected until the voltage and frequency have stabilized.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.14 RECLOSING COORDINATION.
   The generating facility shall be coordinated with the distribution system
reclosing devices by disconnecting from the system during the initial de-
energized operation and shall remain disconnected until the voltage and
frequency have stabilized.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.15 DISCONNECT DEVICE.
   A safety disconnect switch shall be installed that is visible and readily
accessible by town’s electric utility service personnel. The switch shall be
capable of being locked in the open position and shall prevent the generator
from supplying power to the distribution system.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 155.16 STANDARDS FOR INTERCONNECTION, SAFETY AND OPERATING RELIABILITY.
   The interconnection of a generating facility and associated interconnection
equipment to the town’s distribution system shall meet the applicable
provisions of the following publications:
   (A)   ANSI/IEEE 1547-2003 Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources
with Electric Power Systems (including use of IEEE 1547.1 testing protocols to
establish conformity). The following standards shall be used as guidance in
applying IEEE 1547:
      (1)   IEEE Std 519-2014, IEEE Recommended Practices and Requirements for
Harmonic Control in Electrical Power Systems; and
      (2)   IEC/TR3 61000-3-7 Assessment of emission limits for fluctuating
loads in MV and HV power systems.
   (B)   State of Colorado Electric Safety Code;
   (C)   ANSI/NFPA 70 (2014), National Electrical Code;
   (D)   OSHA (29 C.F.R. § 1910.269); and
   (E)   Applicable regional transmission organization/independent system
operator or transmission provider tariff, criteria, business practices,
protocols or other governing documents.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-7-2019)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Establishment of districts
   
156.002   Boundaries
   
156.003   Annexed territory
   
156.004   Application of regulations
   
156.005   Zoning map
Districts
   
156.020   R-A Residential District
   
156.021   B-A Business District
   
156.022   B-B Business District
Supplemental Regulations
   
156.035   Alley houses
   
156.036   Small lots
   
156.037   Cornices, capies, eaves or similar architectural features
   
156.038   Porches
   
156.039   Minimum front yards
   
156.040   Marijuana land uses
   
156.041   Sexually-oriented businesses
Non-Conforming Uses
   
156.055   Intent
   
156.056   Non-conforming lots
   
156.057   Alterations and/or extensions
   
156.058   Restoration
   
156.059   Abandonment
   
156.060   Previously approved uses
   
156.061   Removal of junk yards
   
156.062   Changes in non-conforming uses
   
156.063   Registration of non-conforming uses
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.075   Zoning Administrator
   
156.076   Building permits
   
156.077   Certificates of occupancy
   
156.078   Notifications, violations
   
156.079   Complaints
   
156.080   Board of Adjustment
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the town is divided
into the following zoning districts: R-A Residential District; B-A Business
District; and B-B Business District.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.010) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.002 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are established as shown on a map entitled
“Zoning District Map” of the town dated 10-2-1995, which map is made a part of
this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.020) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.003 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the town shall be in the R-A District
until changed by an amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.030) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.004 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, no buildings or other structure or land shall
be used, and no building or other structure shall be erected, reconstructed,
moved into or within the town limits, or structurally altered, except in
conformance with the regulations specified in this chapter for the district in
which said building is located.
(Prior Code, § 17.04.010) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.005 ZONING MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/aa17172e7befb3173c7625a7c3057d1370da306e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1033.png]
 
DISTRICTS
§ 156.020 R-A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)    Uses permitted.
      (1)     One-family dwelling (not an automobile house trailer);
      (2)     Two-family dwelling (not an automobile house trailer);
      (3)     Churches;
      (4)     Hospitals;
      (5)     Schools;
      (6)     Library, museum, playground park, recreational building area;
      (7)   The taking of boarders or the leasing of rooms by a resident
family;
      (8)   Farms, truck gardens and nurseries and non-commercial greenhouse;
      (9)   Home occupation; provided that, it does not change the character
thereof. The following occupation, because of its detrimental impact on the
character and value of residential properties, or on the peace, tranquility,
safety and quiet of a residential zone district, is prohibited as a home
occupation: sexually-oriented businesses and, irrespective of whether the use
may be categorized as a sexually-oriented business, no retail or wholesale
sales to consumers upon the premises of any types of materials specified in §
156.041 of this chapter that describe or depict specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas shall be permitted;
      (10)   Utility mains, transmission and distribution lines (and service
facilities), also railway right-of-way and passenger station, but no railway
yards;
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses;
      (12)   Nursery;
      (13)   Uses customarily incident to any of the above purposes, including:
         (a)   One name plate of the occupant of the premises which shall not
exceed one square foot in area;
         (b)   One temporary sign not exceeding 12 square feet in area
appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of building or premises; and
         (c)   One name plate, sign or bulletin board at the entrance of a
church or similar institution, which shall not exceed 25 square feet in area.
      (14)   Subject to the provisions of §§
156.055 through
156.063 of this chapter, the following conditional uses:
         (a)   Multiple dwelling;
         (b)   Rest homes, convalescent homes and nursing homes;
         (c)   Hotels (including services such as newsstands, barber shops and
dining rooms when conducted and entered only from within the building and there
is no exterior display or advertising, except for an announcement sign not
exceeding two square feet in arch) and apartments;
         (d)   Private club or lodge and social and community center building,
excluding.any which has as its chief activity a service customarily carried on
as a business;
         (e)   Boarding or lodging house;
         (f)   An institution of an educational, philanthropic or eleemosynary
nature;
         (g)   Mortuary;
         (h)   Motel or tourist court;
         (i)   Office building for carrying on business or profession;
         (j)   Repair shop, not including motor vehicle or machinery;
         (k)   Such other use as shall be consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter;
         (l)   Mobile homes; and
         (m)   Kennels (raising animals for profit).
(Prior Code, § 17.08.010)
   (B)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   Per one-family dwelling: 4,500 square feet; and
      (2)   Per two-family dwelling: 5,500 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.020)
   (C)   Minimum lot width. Per one- or two-family unit: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.030)
   (D)   Minimum front yard. Principal buildings: 25 feet.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.040)
   (E)   Minimum side yard. Principal building: five feet for any side yard,
for the front 75 feet of any lot; for the balance of said lot, one foot for any
side.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.050)
   (F)   Minimum floor area.
      (1)   Six hundred square feet for every one-family dwelling;
      (2)   One thousand square feet for every two-family dwelling; and
      (3)   Four hundred square feet for every living unit in a three-family
dwelling or multiple-family dwelling in excess of three units.
(Prior Code, § 17.08.060)
(Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995; Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 156.021 B-A BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any uses permitted in the R-A Districts, including the conditional
uses provided for such district;
      (2)   Any commercial business not involving manufacturing, processing or
treatment of the products, except for the following:
         (a)   Any trade, industry or use that is injurious, noxious, offensive
or hazardous by reason of the emission of odor, dust, fumes, smoke, noise or
vibration, or that is dangerous to life or property; and
         (b)   Any use which is a nuisance.
      (3)   Sign for identification of business located on the premises; and
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment, in its discretion, may upon proper
application, permit a commercial business to conduct such manufacturing,
processing or treatment of products as may be clearly incidental to the retail
business on the premises, but no such manufacture, processing or treatment of
products may be carried on unless first approved and a special permit has been
granted by the Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.010)
   (B)   Minimum lot areas. None.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.020)
   (C)   Minimum lot width. None.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.030)
   (D)   Minimum off-street parking. Motel, rooming and boarding house: one
space (ten feet by 20 feet) for each rental unit.
(Prior Code, § 17.12.040)
(Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.022 B-B BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any uses permitted in R-A, R-B District, including all conditional
uses; and
      (2)   Any other use not otherwise prohibited by law; provided, however,
that, none of the following uses shall be established unless such use shall be
approved and a special permit granted by the Board of Adjustment:
         (a)   Acid manufactures;
         (b)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture;
         (c)   Fireworks, explosives, manufacture or storage;
         (d)   Fertilizer manufacture and potash refining;
         (e)   Fuel manufacture;
         (f)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
         (g)   Glue manufacture, fat rendering or distillation of bones;
         (h)   Petroleum refining;
         (i)   Smelting or refining of metals;
         (j)   Stockyards or abattoir;
         (k)   Stone mill or quarry;
         (l)   Feed yard for livestock;
         (m)   Junk yards; and
         (n)   Any other trade, industry or use that is injurious, noxious,
offensive or hazardous by reason of the emission of odor, dust, fumes, smoke,
noise or vibration, or that is dangerous to life or property.
(Prior Code, § 17.16.010)
   (B)   Minimum front yard. None.
(Prior Code, § 17.16.020)
   (C)   Minimum rear yard. None.
(Prior Code, § 17.16.030)
   (D)   Minimum off-street parking. None.
(Prior Code, § 17.16.040)
(Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.035 ALLEY HOUSES.
   No dwelling shall be located on the back on any interior lot having a
dwelling on the front of said lot, nor shall any dwelling front on an alley.
(Prior Code, § 17.32.010) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.036 SMALL LOTS.
   Where an individual lot was held in separate ownership from adjoining
properties or was platted and recorded at the time of passage of the ordinance
codified herein, and has less area or less width than required in other
sections of said ordinance, such lot may be occupied according to the permitted
uses provided for the district in which such lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 17.32.020) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.037 CORNICES, CAPIES, EAVES OR SIMILAR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   May extend into a required yard no more than two feet.
(Prior Code, § 17.32.030) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.038 PORCHES.
   Open, unenclosed, uncovered stoops and terraces at foundation level may
extend into required yard not more than two feet.
(Prior Code, § 17.32.040) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.039 MINIMUM FRONT YARDS.
   Developed areas, where lots comprising 50% or more of the frontage on one
side of a street between interaction streets have been improved with building
at the time of passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the average
front yard of such buildings shall be the minimum front yard required for all
new construction in such block.
(Prior Code, § 17.32.050) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.040 MARIJUANA LAND USES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the definitions set
forth in Chapter 111 of this code of ordinances shall be applied.
   (B)   Prohibitions regarding marijuana cultivation, manufacture, testing or
retail sale.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate, cause to be operated or
permit to be operated a medical marijuana store, an medical marijuana
cultivation facility or a medical marijuana products manufacturer in the town.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a marijuana cultivation
facility, marijuana product manufacturing facility, marijuana testing facility
or retail marijuana store or marijuana club within the town.
      (3)   It is unlawful to grow medical marijuana or marijuana for personal
or medicinal use anywhere in the town other than in an enclosed, locked space
within a detached single-family residential property or single-family
residential garage or in a detached accessory structure under the ownership of
the person cultivating the marijuana or with the written permission of the
property owner. ENCLOSED means having a roof and all sides closed to the
weather with walls, windows or doors.
      (4)   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana inside a residential dwelling
in an area exceeding 32 square feet or exceeding a height of ten feet. This
limit applies regardless of the number of qualified patients or caregivers or
persons otherwise allowed to possess and grow marijuana for personal use
residing in the residence. The cultivation area shall be a single, locked area
and shall not be accessible to anyone under the age of 21. In no event may more
than 12 marijuana plants be cultivated, grown or produced on a residential
property.
      (5)   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in a detached accessory
structure that is greater than 50 square feet or more than ten feet in height
or in an attached or detached garage in an area that is greater than 32 square
feet. Any garage or accessory structure used for the cultivation of marijuana,
including all walls doors, and the roof, shall be constructed with a firewall
assembly of Type X drywall meeting the minimum Building Code requirements for
residential structures. Other provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, a
permit is required for an accessory structure used for growing marijuana and it
must meet setback requirements of structures greater than 50 square feet. In no
event may more than 12 marijuana plants be cultivated, grown or produced on a
residential property.
      (6)   It is unlawful to use any lighting for the indoor cultivation of
marijuana other than light emitting diodes (LED), compact fluorescent lamps
(CFL) or fluorescent lighting. All high intensity discharge (HID) lighting
including, but not limited to, Mercury-vapor lamps, Metal-halide (MH) lamps,
Ceramic MH lamps, Sodium-vapor lamps, high-pressure sodium (HPS) lamps and
Xenon short-arc lamps are prohibited.
      (7)   It is unlawful to use gas products (e.g., CO2, butane) for indoor
marijuana cultivation or processing.
      (8)   It is unlawful to use a kitchen, bathroom or primary bedrooms for
the indoor cultivation of marijuana.
      (9)   It is unlawful to cultivate marijuana in any structure without
complying with applicable Building and Fire Codes, including plumbing and
electrical, and all applicable zoning codes, including, but not limited to, lot
coverage, setback and height requirements.
      (10)   Any indoor marijuana cultivation area shall include a ventilation
and filtration system designed to ensure that odors from the cultivation are
not detectable beyond the property line for detached single-family residential,
and designed to prevent mold and moisture and otherwise protect the health and
safety of persons residing in the residence. This shall include, at a minimum,
a system meeting the requirements of the current, adopted edition of the
Building Code.
      (11)   It is unlawful to store chemicals used for marijuana cultivation
inside of the habitable areas of the residence or within public view from
neighboring properties and public rights-of-way.
      (12)   It shall be unlawful for any marijuana cultivation activity to
adversely affect the health or safety of the nearby residents by creating dust
glare, heat, noise, noxious gasses, odor, smoke, traffic, vibration or other
impacts; or be hazardous due to the use or storage of materials, processes,
products or wastes, or from other actions related to the cultivation.
   (C)   Penalty for violation. A violation of the provisions of this section
shall be punishable as set forth in §
111.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.041 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ADULT AMUSEMENT OR ENTERTAINMENT. Amusement or entertainment that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or
which features topless dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators or similar entertainment.
      ADULT ARCADE. Any commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, videocassette players or similar machines, or other image-producing
machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each at any viewing, are used to
show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic,
digital or electronic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction,
simulation or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment that devotes a significant or substantial portion of its stock-
in-trade or interior floor space to, or has as one of its principal business
purposes, the sale, rental or viewing, for any form of consideration, of:
         (a)   Any books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other visual
representations characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Any instruments, devices or items designed or intended for use
with or in specified sexual activities.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, concert hall, auditorium or
other commercial establishment which features persons who appear nude or in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity; or live performances that are characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by the exhibition of specified
sexual activities.
      ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that
offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration and provides
patrons with closed-circuit television transmission, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or other photographic productions however produced that
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment that is
distinguished or characterized by showing of films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions with an emphasis
on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas that are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. With respect to the regulation of sexually-
oriented businesses, may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and still be categorized as a sexually-oriented business. Such
other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments
from being categorized as a sexually-oriented business so long as one of its
principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas. The term COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT
includes clubs, fraternal organizations, social organizations, civic
organizations or other similar organizations with paid memberships.
      ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business into a sexually-oriented
business;
         (c)   The addition of a different sexually-oriented business to any
other existing sexually-oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of a sexually-oriented business.
      NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays specified anatomical areas is provided money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed
or similarly depicted by other persons.
      NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
         (a)   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male genitals,
female genitals, pubic region or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
         (b)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
      PARK. Any public land that has been designated or used for any park, open
space or recreational uses or activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
court, tennis court, bike or pedestrian path, open space, wilderness area or
similar land within the town.
      PEEP BOOTH. A room, semi-enclosure or other similar area located within a
licensed premises wherein a person may view representations of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      PHOTO STUDIO, ADULT. An establishment that, upon payment of a fee,
provides photographic equipment and/or models for the purpose of photographing
specified anatomical areas.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
      SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. A state of dress in which clothing covers no
more than the genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breasts, as well
as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater or
nude model studio. The term SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS does not mean or include
an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or
similar professional licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals, pubic region;
            2.   Buttocks, anus; or
            3.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
         (e)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (a) through (d) above of this definition.
      THEATER, ADULT. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances characterized by specified
sexual activities or by an emphasis on exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses shall be located only within the areas
zoned B-A Business District and B-B Business District located within the town.
It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the operation, establishment or
maintenance of a sexually-oriented business outside of these areas.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the operation,
establishment or maintenance of a sexually-oriented business unless a special
permit has been obtained pursuant to division (D) below and unless the use is
in compliance with such approval and all applicable regulations of the town
municipal code.
      (3)   No sexually-oriented business shall be established, operated or
maintained within 600 feet of:
         (a)   Any school or platted tract or lot dedicated for school
purposes;
         (b)   Any licensed day care facility;
         (c)   Any religious institution;
         (d)   Any public building;
         (e)   Any of the following existing dwellings:
            1.   Mobile home;
            2.   Modular home;
            3.   Multiple-family;
            4.   One-family; or
            5.   Two-family.
         (f)   Any park; or
         (g)   Another sexually-oriented business.
      (4)   The setback requirements set forth in divisions (B)(3)(e), (B)(3)
(f) and (B)(3)(g) above for another sexually-oriented businesses shall be
reduced to a distance of no less than 100 feet by the Board of Adjustment and
Board of Trustees during the special permit process if the applicant presents
sufficient evidence to the satisfaction of the approving agency that walls or
vegetative screening shall be provided along the perimeter of the sexually-
oriented business where needed to protect residents from undesirable views,
lighting, noise or other off-site inconsistent land use characteristics of
sexually-oriented businesses. Off-street parking areas and service areas for
loading and unloading of other than passenger vehicles and storage and
collection of trash and garbage shall also be screened.
      (5)   The distance between two sexually-oriented businesses shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each business.
      (6)   The distance between a sexually-oriented business and any religious
institution, school, public building, day care facility, existing dwelling or
park shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest point of the building or structure used
as part of the premises where the sexually-oriented business is conducted, to
the nearest property line of the premises of a religious institution, school,
public building, day care facility or existing dwelling, or the nearest
boundary of an affected park.
      (7)   No more than one sexually-oriented business shall be established,
operated or maintained within the same building, structure, premises or portion
thereof.
      (8)   Any sexually-oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this ordinance that is in violation of division (B)(3) above will be
permitted to continue for a period of one year from the effective date hereof.
      (9)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(7) above, the town
may grant an extension of time during which a sexually-oriented business in
violation of division (B)(3) above will be permitted to continue upon a showing
that the owner of the business has not had a reasonable time to recover the
initial financial investment in the business. No such extension of time shall
be for a period greater than that reasonably necessary for the owner of the
business to recover his or her initial financial investment in the business. A
sexually-oriented business in violation of division (B)(3) above may continue
during such extended period unless the business is sooner terminated for any
reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such
business shall not be enlarged, extended or altered; except that, the business
may be brought into compliance with this division (B)(9).
      (10)   If two or more sexually-oriented businesses are within 600 feet of
one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually-oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at the particular
location will be deemed to be in compliance with division (B)(3) above and the
later established business(es) will be deemed to be in violation of such
division.
      (11)   A sexually-oriented business, which at the time it received its
sexually-oriented business license was in compliance with the location
requirements of division (B)(3) above, does not violate that subsection if,
when the sexually-oriented business applies to renew its valid sexually-
oriented business license, a school, church, public building, day care facility
or dwelling is now located within 600 feet of the sexually-oriented business.
This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid sexually-oriented
business license and does not apply to an application for a sexually-oriented
business license that is submitted as a result of the previous sexually-
oriented business license expiring or being revoked.
   (C)   Sign and display requirements.
      (1)   In addition to any applicable requirements of this municipal code,
sexually-oriented businesses shall comply with the sign and display
requirements set forth in this section. In the event of conflict between this
section and any other provisions of this municipal code, the restrictions set
forth in this section shall apply and control.
      (2)   Signs for sexually-oriented businesses shall not contain
photographs, silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any type or
manner. Such signs may contain only the name of the enterprise and a phrase
denoting the type of sexually-oriented business by reference to the
classifications set forth in this chapter, such as “adult arcade”, “adult
bookstore” or “adult theater”.
      (3)   For any adult bookstore, adult novelty shop or adult video store,
there shall be presented to the licensing officer with the application required
pursuant to §
114.07(B) of this code of ordinances, a scaled floor plan showing the specific
locations within the commercial establishment where the stock-in-trade
describing or depicting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, or designed or intended for use with or in specified sexual activities,
will be displayed and sold. The plan shall also describe the method of display
of such stock-in-trade.
      (4)   For any commercial establishment that is open for other business
purposes to persons under the age of 21, the sexually-oriented business shall
segregate such stock-in-trade into a separate and distinct area within the
establishment that may be accessed only by persons over the age of 21, and
where the stock-in-trade may not readily viewed by persons outside such area
regardless of age. Alternatively, such stock-in-trade need not be segregated
into a separate and distinct area if any matter describing or depicting
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas is covered by an
opaque material, such as an opaque magazine, book or video sleeve that prevents
viewing of such matter by persons under the age of 21. It is the specific
intent of this section to require that adult books, magazines, videos and
novelty items, and any other adult materials displayed in the establishment,
either be displayed only in areas not accessible to persons under the age of
21, or be displayed only after matter describing or depicting specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas is first shielded from view by opaque
covering.
   (D)   Special permit procedure.
      (1)   Special permit required. It shall be unlawful to cause or permit
the operation, establishment or maintenance of a sexually-oriented business
unless a special permit has been obtained pursuant to this section.
      (2)   Procedure. Whenever an applicant shall apply for a special permit,
the following procedure shall be followed:
         (a)   The applicant shall file an application with the Town Clerk/
Treasurer for a special permit. The application shall contain the following
information:
            1.   Description of the lot on which the use is to be located;
            2.   The name and address of all persons having any legal or
equitable interest in the property on which the use is to be located;
            3.   Description of the use for which the special permit is sought;
            4.   A statement describing the benefits of the proposed use, how
that use will be compatible with surrounding uses and the impact the use will
have relative to the criteria as set forth in division (D)(3) below; and
            5.   A statement describing by name and address the adjoining
landowners.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receiving a complete application from the
applicant, the Town Clerk/Treasurer will set a hearing date for the application
before the Board of Adjustment and the Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notices of the time, place
and subject matter of the hearing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town and to be posted on the property at least 15 days
in advance of such hearings.
         (d)   After hearing the application, the Board of Adjustment shall
make written findings of fact and a written recommendation to the Board of
Trustees whether to grant or deny the application.
         (e)   Within 30 days after receiving the Board of Adjustment’s
recommendations, the Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on the
application for the special permit. The Board of Trustees shall consider the
application, the findings of fact and recommendation of the Board of
Adjustment, and any further evidence that may be offered, and shall grant or
deny the permit in writing within 15 days of its hearing.
      (3)   Standards governing conditional uses. The following criteria shall
be considered by the Board of Adjustment and the Board of Trustees when
reviewing conditional use permits for sexually-oriented businesses:
         (a)   The proposed use would not be contrary to the general welfare
and economic prosperity of the town or the immediate neighborhood;
         (b)   Such use will lend economic stability compatible with the
character of any surrounding established areas;
         (c)   The use will not require a level of town facilities and
services, including storm drainage facilities, sewage and water facilities, law
enforcement and fire protection, greater than that available; and
         (d)   The external effects of the proposed use are controlled
considering compatibility of land use; movement or congestion of traffic; the
arrangement of signs and lights as to prevent the occurrence of a nuisance;
landscaping and other similar features to prevent the occurrences of nuisances;
landscaping and other similar features to prevent littering or accumulation of
trash; and other factors deemed to affect public health, welfare, safety and
convenience.
      (4)   Modifications and conditions. In considering conditional use
permits for sexually-oriented businesses, the Board of Zoning and Adjustment
and Board of Trustees shall consider and may impose modifications and
conditions concerning, by way of illustration and not limitation, the following
development features to the extent such modifications or conditions are
necessary to ensure compliance with the criteria of division (D)(3) above:
         (a)   Size and location of the site;
         (b)   Internal traffic circulation and access to adjoining public
streets;
         (c)   Location and amount of off-street parking;
         (d)   Walls and vegetative screening;
         (e)   Building and bulk location;
         (f)   Signs and lighting; and
         (g)   Noise and other environmental influences.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
156.999
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 156.055 INTENT.
   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that may
later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures,
and characteristics of use which were lawful before the ordinance codified in
this chapter was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of said ordinance or future amendments. It is the
intent of this subchapter to permit these non-conformities to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this subchapter that the non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon,
expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or
uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.010) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.056 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   Non-conforming lots of recorded at the time of the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter may be built upon or used after the passage of said
ordinance, but only with an unconditionally permitted use in the zone district,
and by approval of the Board of Adjustment. No lot conforming in size at the
time of the passage of said ordinance shall be subdivided or reduced in size in
such a way that it would become non-con-forming.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.020) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.057 ALTERATIONS AND/OR EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   No building or use that is non-conforming as of the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be structurally altered or
expanded in any way that would increase the degree or area of non-conformance.
   (B)   The following changes or alterations may be made to a non-conforming
building:
      (1)   Repair to a building or structure that is ordered by any public
official to make it safe;
      (2)   Maintenance repairs that are needed to keep the building in good
condition; and
      (3)   Any structural alteration that would not increase the degree of
non-conformance or would change the use to a conforming one.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.030) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.058 RESTORATION.
   (A)   Any non-conforming building or structure that is destroyed by fire,
accident or natural causes to the extent of more than 50% of its valuation, may
not be rebuilt except for a conforming use.
   (B)   If less than 50% of the replacement cost at the time of destruction,
the building may be rebuilt, but not to allow for any expansion of the non-
conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.040) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.059 ABANDONMENT.
   If any non-conforming use of land, building or structure is abandoned for a
period exceeding one year, no non-conforming use may be reestablished upon such
land or within such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.050) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.060 PREVIOUSLY APPROVED USES.
   Any building, use or structure that had been officially approved by the
Board of Trustees, or for which a building permit had been issued prior to the
passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, may proceed to construct or
use such building, structure or land; providing that, the structural members of
such building or structure are completed within one year of the effective date
of said ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.060) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.061 REMOVAL OF JUNK YARDS.
   Junk yards located in any district other than an industrial district shall
be removed within three years after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.070) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.062 CHANGES IN NON-CONFORMING USES.
   No non-conforming use of a building or structure may be changed to another
non-conforming use, except when the new non-conforming use is of a more
restrictive nature, as may be determined by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.080) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.063 REGISTRATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for where any land or
building is made non- conforming as to use by the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter.
   (B)   Such certificate shall be applied for and issued within one year after
the effective date of the passage of said ordinance.
   (C)   Failure to apply for the certificate within this period constitutes a
violation of said ordinance and appropriate action will then be taken under the
provisions of this chapter relating to violations.
(Prior Code, § 17.20.090) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.075 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the town’s Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, or his, her or their deputy, shall
have authority to issue building permits and certificates of occupancy. They
shall have authority to make inspection and to make all decisions necessary for
the proper enforcement of this chapter. No oversight or dereliction on the part
of the Zoning Administrator shall legalize, authorize or excuse the violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.010) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.076 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, moved or structurally altered unless a
permit therefor has been issued by the Zoning Administrator, and no permit
shall be issued unless the building or structure proposed is in full
conformation with this chapter, except in those instances where a permit has
been granted for a variance by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All applications for building permits must be accompanied by drawing,
to scale, showing plot plan and location, floor plan, height and size of all
proposed building, and the locations and dimensions of fences, signs and
parking and loading areas.
   (C)   All certificates of occupancy shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be available for examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.020) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.077 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land or building shall hereafter be changed in use, nor shall any
new structure, building or land be occupied or used without first having
obtained a certificate of occupancy from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Such certificate of occupancy shall be issued within five days of the
time of notification that the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
   (C)   All certificates of occupancy shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be available for examination by the public.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.030) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.078 NOTIFICATIONS, VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator shall find a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, he, she or they will notify the person responsible
for the violation in writing and shall order the necessary corrections within a
three-month period.
   (B)   (1)   The erection, construction, enlargement, conversion, moving or
maintenance of any building or structure and the use of any land or building
which is continued, operated or maintained, contrary to any provisions of this
chapter, is declared to be a violation of this chapter and unlawful.
      (2)   The Town Attorney shall immediately, upon any such violation having
been called to his, her or their attention, and upon being so instructed by the
Board of Trustees, institute an injunction, or any other appropriate action to
prevent, enjoin, abate and remove such violation.
      (3)   Such action may also be instituted by a property owner who may be
especially damaged by any violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.040) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.079 COMPLAINTS.
   Any person aggrieved by a violation or apparent violation of the provisions
of this chapter may file a written complaint with the Zoning Administrator, who
shall immediately investigate such complaint and take legal action to have
those responsible for the violation penalized and the violation removed, if
such a violation is found to exist.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.050) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.080 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation. A Board of Adjustment is created which shall consist of five
members and which shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees. All further
reference to the Board of Adjustment in this section shall hereafter be made to
“the Board”.
(Prior Code, § 17.28.010)
   (B)   Membership and organization.
      (1)   Members. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members
appointed by the Board of Trustees. Members shall be resident taxpayers of the
town.
      (2)   Terms of office. One member shall be appointed for a term of one
year; two for a term of two years; and three for a term of three years.
Thereafter, all appointments to the Board of Adjustment shall be made for terms
of three years. When vacancies occur prior to the expiration of a regular term,
they shall be filled in the same manner as regular appointments, but shall
serve only until the expiration of the term in which the vacancy occurred.
      (3)   Chairperson. The members of the Board of Adjustment shall elect
from among their numbers a Chairperson to serve for a term of one year.
      (4)   Expenses. In the performance of its duties, the Board of Adjustment
may incur such expenses as shall be authorized by the Board of Trustees, but no
member shall receive any compensation for their services.
      (5)   Removal of members. The Board of Trustees shall have the power to
remove any member from the Board of Adjustment for cause after public hearings.
(Prior Code, § 17.28.020)
   (C)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   To meet at the call of the Chairperson, by his or her request or by
the request of the Zoning Administrator, or by any party wishing to appeal the
decision of the same;
      (2)   To adopt any rules necessary to transact the Board of Adjustment’s
business or to expedite its functions or powers so long as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   To vote upon the granting of an adjustment to requirements of this
chapter, which vote must require the concurrence of more than one-half the
members of the Board of Adjustment in order to reverse an order of the Zoning
Administrator;
      (4)   To keep minutes of the proceedings of each meeting, which shall be
filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment, who may designate the Zoning
Administrator to keep such files, and which shall be of public record;
      (5)   To permit the public to attend and to be heard at all of its
meetings;
      (6)   To notify in writing the Zoning Administrator, the owner involved
and the Planning Commission of all decisions made, resolutions passed, hearings
scheduled or permits authorized;
      (7)   To publish notice of or cause to be published, or cause the
property to be posted at least 15 days prior to the date of hearings, where
such hearings are deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment;
      (8)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to interpret this
chapter, in including any uncertainty as to boundary location, or meaning of
wording so long as this interpretation is not contrary to the purpose and
intent of this chapter;
      (9)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to grant variances
from the provisions of this chapter, but only where all of the following
conditions are found to exist:
         (a)   The variance would not authorize any use other than uses
enumerated as unconditionally permitted uses in the district;
         (b)   An unnecessary hardship to the owner could be shown to occur if
the provisions of this chapter were literally followed;
         (c)   The circumstances found to constitute a hardship either were not
created by the owner, or were in existence at the time of the passage of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, are not due to nor are the result of
general conditions in the district and cannot reasonably be corrected;
         (d)   The variance would not injure the value, use of or prevent the
proper access of light and air to the adjacent properties; and
         (e)   The variance would not be out of harmony with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (10)   The Board of Adjustment shall act in strict accordance with all of
the other applicable laws of the state and the county. All appeals to the Board
of Adjustment shall be in writing and on such a form as shall be prescribed by
the Board of Adjustment. Every appeal shall indicate what provision of this
chapter is involved, what relief from these provisions is being sought, and the
grounds upon which such an appeal is being sought, as required in §§
156.075 through
156.079 of this chapter. The Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment shall then
within ten days, call a meeting of the Board of Adjustment for the purpose of
the review of the requested appeal. At the same time, a copy of the requested
appeal shall be transmitted to the Planning Commission for an opinion, which
opinion shall be returned to the Board of Adjustment before the date set for
hearing the appeal. Failure of the Planning Commission to return the requested
opinion shall be considered as its approval of the Board of Adjustment’s
granting of the requested appeal.
(Prior Code, § 17.28.030)
   (D)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. Any further appeal from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment may be made to the courts, as provided by
law; provided, however, that, such appeal is made prior to 60 days following
the date of the notification of the Board of Adjustment’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 17.28.040)
(Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with all of the provisions of this chapter, unless a
variance has been authorized by the Board of Adjustment, shall constitute a
misdemeanor and upon conviction is punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 for
each offense, such fine to inure the town. Each day that such a violation
continues to exist shall be considered as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 17.24.040) (Ord. 95-3, passed - -1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS; ZONINGS
      
II.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
      
IV.   PROPERTY PURCHASES AND SALES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS; ZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date      Description
          Passed
3, Series 12-7-1981 Annexing certain property (Haxtun Industrial Park Addition)
1981
16.0      2-2-1998  Annexing certain property (Grainland Addition)
16.1      2-3-1998  Annexing certain property (Highland Park Second Addition)
16.02     8-7-2000  Annexing certain property (Hart’s First, Second and Third
(2000)              Additions)
16.03     11-6-2000 Annexing certain property (34.81 acres)
(2000)
16.4      5-5-2003  Annexing certain property
(2003)
2017-3    5-15-2017 Zoning annexed property (Ensminger Annexation No. 1)
2017-4    5-15-2017 Zoning annexed property (Ensminger Annexation No. 2)
2017-5    5-15-2017 Zoning annexed property (Ensminger Annexation Nos. 1 and 2)
2018-2    6-18-2018 Approving an annexation (Ensminger Third Addition)
2018-3    6-18-2018 Zoning annexed property (Ensminger Third Addition)
2022-2    2-7-2022  Approving an annexation (West Plains Properties, LLC,
                    Annexation)
2022-4    6-20-2022 Approving an annexation (West Plains Properties, LLC,
                    Annexation)
2022-5    6-20-2022 Zoning annexed property (West Plains Properties, LLC,
                    Annexation)
2023-1    1-3-2023  Approving an annexation (Skyland Annexation)
2023-2    1-3-2023  Zoning annexed property (Skyland Annexation)
2024-4    5-20-2024 Approving an annexation (CB & Pods, LLC, Annexation)
2024-5    5-20-2024 Zoning annexed property (CB & Pods, LLC, Annexation)
 
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
31     6-4-   Granting a gas transmission and distribution system franchise to
       1979   Kansas- Nebraska Natural Gas Company, Inc.
1,     6-7-   Granting a gas transmission and distribution system franchise to
Series 2004   Kinder Morgan, Inc.
2004
2011-1 3-7-   Extending the terms of a cable television franchise granted to PC
       2011   Telcorp, Inc.
2011-4 9-6-   Extending the terms of a cable television franchise granted to PC
       2011   Telcorp, Inc.
2011-6 12-5-  Granting a non- exclusive franchise to PC Telcorp, Inc., to
       2011   operate and maintain a cable system in the town
              Authorizing and directing execution of the amended and restated
2024-2 3- -   total power requirements power purchase agreement by the town
       2024   with the Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (“Service Schedule
              M”)
             
 
TABLE III: STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2018-1   5-8-2018    Approving the vacation of a portion of Burlington Avenue
                     within the Walter Scott Addition
2018-4   10-1-2018   Approving the vacation of an ally in the East Haxtun
                     Subdivision (repealed by Ord. 2018-5)
2018-5   10-15-2018  Approving the vacation of an alley within Block 14 of the
                     original town
2021-1   1-4-2021    Approving the vacation of a portion of Edmund Avenue
2021-5   12-13-2021  Approving the vacation of an alley within Block 9,
                     Highland Park Addition (repealed by Ord. 2022-2)
                    
 
TABLE IV: PROPERTY PURCHASES AND SALES
 
Ord. No.            Date Passed Description
                                Concluding a governmental equipment lease-
2016-1              4-18-2016   purchase agreement for a loader to be used in
                                the operation of the Public Works Department
                                Authorizing the sale and conveyance of property
2018-6, Series 2018 11-5-2018   owned by the town and described as Lot 7A,
                                Block 3, Westridge Replat #2, Westridge Heights
                                Authorizing the sale and conveyance of certain
2021-2              4-5-2021    property owned by the town (145 South Colorado
                                Avenue)
2021-3              4-5-2021    Authorizing the donation of certain property
                                owned by the town (135 West Fletcher Street)
                                
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Colorado Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO COLORADO REVISED STATUTES
C.R.S. Cites Code Section
C.R.S. Cites             Code Section
10-4-601 et seq.         71.32
itle 12, Art. 48         110.17
18-1-901(3)(1)           130.23
18-9-204                 90.07
18-9-204.5(2)(b)         90.01
18-18-102                114.07;
                         114.08
18-18-102(5)             130.11
itle 24, Art. 6, part 4  93.02
24-6-401                 31.32
24-6-402 et seq.         31.32
25-1.5-106               111.17
25-5-410(1)(i)(11)       110.17
25-14-103.5              93.03
29-1-103                 11.02
29-1-201 et seq.         31.30
20-1-401 et seq.         31.30
itle 29, Art. 2, part 1  33.01;
                         33.18
29-2-105(1)              33.16
29-2-105(1)(d)           33.16
29-2-109                 33.17
itle 31, Art. 15, part 4 70.01
itle 31, Art. 16, part 1 70.01
                         70.01;
                         150.01;
                         150.02;
itle 31, Art. 16, part 2 150.03;
                         150.04;
                         150.05;
                         150.06
33-14.5-101 et seq.      71.32
35-5.5-101 et seq.       91.01
39-1-102                 93.04
itle 39, Art. 21         33.18
                         33.01;
itle 39, Art. 26         33.18;
                         33.19
39-26-104                33.16
39-26-114                33.16
40-1-103                 54.22
itle 42, Art. 3          71.31
itle 42, Art. 4, part 18 71.99
43-2-135                 70.03
                         93.02;
itle 44, Art. 3          110.17;
                         110.41
itle 44, Arts. 3—5     110.35
44-3-202                 110.35
44-3-301                 110.01
44-3-323                 110.21
44-5-102                 110.40
44-5-105                 110.41
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1.04.010   10.01
1.04.020   10.02
1.04.030   10.03
1.04.040   10.04
1.04.050   10.05
1.04.060   10.06
1.04.070   10.07
1.04.080   10.08
1.04.090   10.09
1.08.010   11.01
1.20.010   10.99
1.20.020   10.99
1.20.030   10.99
1.20.040   10.99
2.04.010   30.01
2.04.020   30.02
2.04.030   30.03
2.08.010   31.17
2.12.010   31.30
2.12.020   31.30
2.12.030   31.30
2.20.010   31.31
2.20.020   31.31
2.20.030   31.31
2.28.010   31.18
2.28.020   31.18
2.32.010   31.15
2.32.020   31.15
2.32.030   31.15
2.32.040   31.15
2.36.010   31.16
2.36.020   31.16
2.36.030   31.16
2.36.040   31.16
2.40.010   31.01
2.40.020   31.01
2.44.010   31.02
2.44.020   31.02
2.48.010   32.01
2.48.020   32.01
2.48.030   32.01
3.04.010   11.02
3.08.010   33.01
3.08.020   33.02
3.08.030   33.03
3.08.040   33.15
3.08.050   33.16
3.08.060   33.17
3.08.070   33.18
3.08.080   33.19
3.08.090   33.30
3.08.100   33.31
3.08.110   33.32
3.08.120   33.33
5.04.010   110.15
5.04.020   110.16
5.04.040   110.18
5.04.060   110.19
5.04.070   110.20
5.04.080   110.21
5.12.010   110.35
5.12.020   110.36
5.12.030   110.36
5.12.040   110.36
5.12.050   110.36
5.12.060   110.36
5.12.070   110.36
5.12.080   110.36
5.12.090   110.37
5.12.100   110.38
5.12.110   110.39
8.08.010   92.01
8.08.020   92.02
8.08.030   92.03
8.08.040   92.04
8.08.050   92.05
8.08.060   92.06
8.08.070   92.07;
           92.99
8.08.080   92.99
8.12.010   92.08;
           92.99
8.16.240   92.99
8.20.010   92.50
8.20.020   92.51
8.20.030   92.52
8.20.040   92.53
8.20.050   92.54
8.20.060   92.55
8.20.070   92.55
8.20.080   92.55
8.20.090   92.56
8.20.100   92.57
8.20.110   92.58
8.20.120   92.58
8.20.130   92.99
9.02.010   130.01
9.04.010   130.02
9.08.010   130.03
9.12.010   130.04
9.20.010   130.05
9.24.010   130.06
9.32.010   130.07;
           130.99
9.32.020   130.07;
           130.99
9.32.030   130.99
9.36.010   130.08
9.36.020   130.08
9.36.030   130.08
9.40.010   130.09
9.44.010   130.10
9.52.010   130.13
9.56.010   130.14
9.60.010   130.15
9.64.010   130.16
9.66.010   130.17;
           130.99
9.66.020   130.17
9.72.010   130.18
9.74.010   130.18
9.74.020   130.18
9.74.030   130.99
9.92.010   130.23
9.92.020   130.23
9.96.010   130.23
9.100.010  94.01
9.100.020  94.02
9.100.030  94.03
9.100.040  94.04
9.100.050  94.05
9.100.060  94.99
10.08.020  Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.030  Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.040  Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.16.010  70.02
10.20.010  70.03
10.20.020  70.03
10.20.030  70.03
10.20.040  70.03
10.20.050  70.03
10.20.060  70.99
12.04.010  152.01;
           152.99
12.04.020  152.02
12.04.020  152.99
12.08.010  152.03
12.08.020  152.03
12.08.030  152.03
12.08.040  152.03
12.08.050  152.03
12.08.060  152.99
12.12.010  Ch. 72, Schd. II;
           152.04
12.12.020  Ch. 72, Schd. II;
           152.99
12.12.030  152.99
12.16.010  152.05
12.16.020  152.05
12.16.030  152.05
12.16.040  152.05
12.16.050  152.05
12.20.010  150.20
12.20.020  150.21
12.20.030  150.22
12.20.040  150.23
12.20.050  150.24
12.20.060  150.25
12.20.070  150.26
12.20.080  150.27
12.20.090  150.99
12.24.010  152.20
12.24.020  152.21
12.24.030  152.22
12.24.040  152.23
12.24.050  152.24
12.24.060  152.25
12.24.070  152.26
12.24.080  152.27
12.24.090  152.28
12.24.100  152.29;
           152.99
12.24.110  152.30
12.24.120  152.31
12.24.130  152.32
12.24.140  152.33
12.24.150  152.34
12.24.160  152.35
12.28.010  152.06
12.28.020  152.06
12.28.030  152.06
12.28.040  152.06
12.28.050  152.06
12.28.060  152.06
12.28.070  152.06
12.28.080  152.06
12.28.090  152.06
12.28.100  152.06
12.32.010  153.01
12.32.020  153.02
12.32.030  153.03
12.32.040  153.04
12.32.050  153.05
12.32.060  153.06
12.32.070  153.07
12.32.080  153.08
12.32.090  153.09
12.32.100  153.99
13.04.010  50.01
13.04.020  50.02
13.04.030  50.03
13.04.040  50.04
13.04.060  50.06
13.04.070  50.07
13.04.080  50.08
13.04.090  50.09
13.04.100  50.09
13.04.110  50.10
13.04.120  50.10
13.04.130  50.11
13.04.140  50.12
13.04.150  50.13
13.04.160  50.14
13.04.170  50.14
13.04.180  50.15
13.04.190  50.16
13.04.200  50.17
13.04.210  50.18
13.04.220  50.45
13.04.230  50.46
13.04.240  50.47
13.04.250  50.48
13.04.260  50.49
13.04.270  50.50
13.04.280  50.19
13.04.290  50.20
13.04.300  50.21
13.04.310  50.22
13.04.320  50.23
13.04.330  50.24
13.04.350  50.26
13.04.360  50.27
13.04.370  50.28
13.04.380  50.25
13.04.390  50.99
13.08.010  51.20
13.08.020  51.21
13.08.030  51.22
13.08.040  51.23
13.08.050  51.24;
           51.99
13.12.010  54.20
13.12.020  54.21
13.12.030  54.22
13.12.060  54.23
13.12.070  54.24
13.12.080  54.25
13.12.100  54.26
13.12.110  54.27
13.12.130  54.28
13.12.140  54.29
13.12.150  54.30
13.12.160  54.31
13.12.170  54.31
13.12.180  54.32
13.12.190  54.33
13.12.200  54.33
13.16.010  154.01;
           154.99
13.16.020  154.02
13.16.030  154.03
13.16.040  154.04
13.16.050  154.05
13.16.060  154.06
13.16.070  154.07
13.20.010  113.01
13.20.020  113.02
13.20.030  113.03
13.20.040  113.04
13.20.050  113.05
13.20.060  113.06
13.20.070  113.07
13.20.080  113.20
13.20.090  113.21
13.20.100  113.22
13.20.110  113.23
13.20.120  113.24
13.20.130  113.25
13.20.140  113.26
13.20.150  113.27
13.20.160  113.28
13.20.170  113.29
13.20.180  113.30
13.20.190  113.31
13.20.200  113.32
13.20.210  113.33
13.20.220  113.34
13.20.230  113.35
13.20.240  113.36
13.20.250  113.37
13.20.260  113.38
13.20.270  113.39
13.20.280  113.40
13.20.290  113.41
13.20.300  113.42
13.20.310  113.43
13.20.320  113.44
13.20.330  113.45
13.20.340  113.46
13.20.350  113.60
13.20.360  113.60
13.20.370  113.61
13.20.380  113.61
13.20.390  113.61
13.20.400  113.62
13.20.410  113.63
13.20.420  113.64
13.20.430  113.65
13.20.440  113.66
13.20.450  113.67
13.20.460  113.99
13.20.470  113.68
15.04.010  150.01
15.08.010  150.02
15.12.010  150.03
15.16.010  150.04;
           150.05
15.20.010  150.06
17.04.010  156.001;
           156.004
17.04.020  156.002
17.04.030  156.003
17.08.010  156.020
17.08.020  156.020
17.08.030  156.020
17.08.040  156.020
17.08.050  156.020
17.08.060  156.020
17.12.010  156.021
17.12.020  156.021
17.12.030  156.021
17.12.040  156.021
17.16.010  156.022
17.16.020  156.022
17.16.030  156.022
17.16.040  156.022
17.20.010  156.055
17.20.020  156.056
17.20.030  156.057
17.20.040  156.058
17.20.050  156.059
17.20.060  156.060
17.20.070  156.061
17.20.080  156.062
17.20.090  156.063
17.24.010  156.075
17.24.020  156.076
17.24.030  156.077
17.24.040  156.078;
           156.999
17.24.050  156.079
17.28.010  156.080
17.28.020  156.080
17.28.030  156.080
17.28.040  156.080
17.32.010  156.035
17.32.020  156.036
17.32.030  156.037
17.32.040  156.038
17.32.050  156.039
18.16.010  92.20
18.16.020  92.20
18.16.030  92.20
18.16.040  92.20
18.16.050  92.20
18.16.060  92.21
18.16.070  92.22
18.16.080  92.22
18.16.090  92.23
18.16.100  92.24
18.16.110  92.25
18.16.120  92.26
18.16.130  92.27
18.16.140  92.28
18.16.150  92.28
18.16.160  92.29
18.16.170  92.30
18.16.180  92.31
18.16.190  92.32
18.16.200  92.33
18.16.210  92.34
18.16.220  92.35
18.16.230  92.36;
           92.99
           
 
1.04.010   10.01
1.04.020   10.02
1.04.030   10.03
1.04.040   10.04
1.04.050   10.05
1.04.060   10.06
1.04.070   10.07
1.04.080   10.08
1.04.090   10.09
1.08.010   11.01
1.20.010   10.99
1.20.020   10.99
1.20.030   10.99
1.20.040   10.99
2.04.010   30.01
2.04.020   30.02
2.04.030   30.03
2.08.010   31.17
2.12.010   31.30
2.12.020   31.30
2.12.030   31.30
2.20.010   31.31
2.20.020   31.31
2.20.030   31.31
2.28.010   31.18
2.28.020   31.18
2.32.010   31.15
2.32.020   31.15
2.32.030   31.15
2.32.040   31.15
2.36.010   31.16
2.36.020   31.16
2.36.030   31.16
2.36.040   31.16
2.40.010   31.01
2.40.020   31.01
2.44.010   31.02
2.44.020   31.02
2.48.010   32.01
2.48.020   32.01
2.48.030   32.01
3.04.010   11.02
3.08.010   33.01
3.08.020   33.02
3.08.030   33.03
3.08.040   33.15
3.08.050   33.16
3.08.060   33.17
3.08.070   33.18
3.08.080   33.19
3.08.090   33.30
3.08.100   33.31
3.08.110   33.32
3.08.120   33.33
5.04.010   110.15
5.04.020   110.16
5.04.040   110.18
5.04.060   110.19
5.04.070   110.20
5.04.080   110.21
5.12.010   110.35
5.12.020   110.36
5.12.030   110.36
5.12.040   110.36
5.12.050   110.36
5.12.060   110.36
5.12.070   110.36
5.12.080   110.36
5.12.090   110.37
5.12.100   110.38
5.12.110   110.39
8.08.010   92.01
8.08.020   92.02
8.08.030   92.03
8.08.040   92.04
8.08.050   92.05
8.08.060   92.06
8.08.070   92.07; 92.99
8.08.080   92.99
8.12.010   92.08; 92.99
8.16.240   92.99
8.20.010   92.50
8.20.020   92.51
8.20.030   92.52
8.20.040   92.53
8.20.050   92.54
8.20.060   92.55
8.20.070   92.55
8.20.080   92.55
8.20.090   92.56
8.20.100   92.57
8.20.110   92.58
8.20.120   92.58
8.20.130   92.99
9.02.010   130.01
9.04.010   130.02
9.08.010   130.03
9.12.010   130.04
9.20.010   130.05
9.24.010   130.06
9.32.010   130.07; 130.99
9.32.020   130.07; 130.99
9.32.030   130.99
9.36.010   130.08
9.36.020   130.08
9.36.030   130.08
9.40.010   130.09
9.44.010   130.10
9.52.010   130.13
9.56.010   130.14
9.60.010   130.15
9.64.010   130.16
9.66.010   130.17; 130.99
9.66.020   130.17
9.72.010   130.18
9.74.010   130.18
9.74.020   130.18
9.74.030   130.99
9.92.010   130.23
9.92.020   130.23
9.96.010   130.23
9.100.010   94.01
9.100.020   94.02
9.100.030   94.03
9.100.040   94.04
9.100.050   94.05
9.100.060   94.99
10.08.020   Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.030   Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.08.040   Ch. 72, Schd. I
10.16.010   70.02
10.20.010   70.03
10.20.020   70.03
10.20.030   70.03
10.20.040   70.03
10.20.050   70.03
10.20.060   70.99
12.04.010   152.01; 152.99
12.04.020   152.02
12.04.020   152.99
12.08.010   152.03
12.08.020   152.03
12.08.030   152.03
12.08.040   152.03
12.08.050   152.03
12.08.060   152.99
12.12.010   Ch. 72, Schd. II; 152.04
12.12.020   Ch. 72, Schd. II; 152.99
12.12.030   152.99
12.16.010   152.05
12.16.020   152.05
12.16.030   152.05
12.16.040   152.05
12.16.050   152.05
12.20.010   150.20
12.20.020   150.21
12.20.030   150.22
12.20.040   150.23
12.20.050   150.24
12.20.060   150.25
12.20.070   150.26
12.20.080   150.27
12.20.090   150.99
12.24.010   152.20
12.24.020   152.21
12.24.030   152.22
12.24.040   152.23
12.24.050   152.24
12.24.060   152.25
12.24.070   152.26
12.24.080   152.27
12.24.090   152.28
12.24.100   152.29; 152.99
12.24.110   152.30
12.24.120   152.31
12.24.130   152.32
12.24.140   152.33
12.24.150   152.34
12.24.160   152.35
12.28.010   152.06
12.28.020   152.06
12.28.030   152.06
12.28.040   152.06
12.28.050   152.06
12.28.060   152.06
12.28.070   152.06
12.28.080   152.06
12.28.090   152.06
12.28.100   152.06
12.32.010   153.01
12.32.020   153.02
12.32.030   153.03
12.32.040   153.04
12.32.050   153.05
12.32.060   153.06
12.32.070   153.07
12.32.080   153.08
12.32.090   153.09
12.32.100   153.99
13.04.010   50.01
13.04.020   50.02
13.04.030   50.03
13.04.040   50.04
13.04.060   50.06
13.04.070   50.07
13.04.080   50.08
13.04.090   50.09
13.04.100   50.09
13.04.110   50.10
13.04.120   50.10
13.04.130   50.11
13.04.140   50.12
13.04.150   50.13
13.04.160   50.14
13.04.170   50.14
13.04.180   50.15
13.04.190   50.16
13.04.200   50.17
13.04.210   50.18
13.04.220   50.45
13.04.230   50.46
13.04.240   50.47
13.04.250   50.48
13.04.260   50.49
13.04.270   50.50
13.04.280   50.19
13.04.290   50.20
13.04.300   50.21
13.04.310   50.22
13.04.320   50.23
13.04.330   50.24
13.04.350   50.26
13.04.360   50.27
13.04.370   50.28
13.04.380   50.25
13.04.390   50.99
13.08.010   51.20
13.08.020   51.21
13.08.030   51.22
13.08.040   51.23
13.08.050   51.24; 51.99
13.12.010   54.20
13.12.020   54.21
13.12.030   54.22
13.12.060   54.23
13.12.070   54.24
13.12.080   54.25
13.12.100   54.26
13.12.110   54.27
13.12.130   54.28
13.12.140   54.29
13.12.150   54.30
13.12.160   54.31
13.12.170   54.31
13.12.180   54.32
13.12.190   54.33
13.12.200   54.33
13.16.010   154.01; 154.99
13.16.020   154.02
13.16.030   154.03
13.16.040   154.04
13.16.050   154.05
13.16.060   154.06
13.16.070   154.07
13.20.010   113.01
13.20.020   113.02
13.20.030   113.03
13.20.040   113.04
13.20.050   113.05
13.20.060   113.06
13.20.070   113.07
13.20.080   113.20
13.20.090   113.21
13.20.100   113.22
13.20.110   113.23
13.20.120   113.24
13.20.130   113.25
13.20.140   113.26
13.20.150   113.27
13.20.160   113.28
13.20.170   113.29
13.20.180   113.30
13.20.190   113.31
13.20.200   113.32
13.20.210   113.33
13.20.220   113.34
13.20.230   113.35
13.20.240   113.36
13.20.250   113.37
13.20.260   113.38
13.20.270   113.39
13.20.280   113.40
13.20.290   113.41
13.20.300   113.42
13.20.310   113.43
13.20.320   113.44
13.20.330   113.45
13.20.340   113.46
13.20.350   113.60
13.20.360   113.60
13.20.370   113.61
13.20.380   113.61
13.20.390   113.61
13.20.400   113.62
13.20.410   113.63
13.20.420   113.64
13.20.430   113.65
13.20.440   113.66
13.20.450   113.67
13.20.460   113.99
13.20.470   113.68
15.04.010   150.01
15.08.010   150.02
15.12.010   150.03
15.16.010   150.04; 150.05
15.20.010   150.06
17.04.010   156.001; 156.004
17.04.020   156.002
17.04.030   156.003
17.08.010   156.020
17.08.020   156.020
17.08.030   156.020
17.08.040   156.020
17.08.050   156.020
17.08.060   156.020
17.12.010   156.021
17.12.020   156.021
17.12.030   156.021
17.12.040   156.021
17.16.010   156.022
17.16.020   156.022
17.16.030   156.022
17.16.040   156.022
17.20.010   156.055
17.20.020   156.056
17.20.030   156.057
17.20.040   156.058
17.20.050   156.059
17.20.060   156.060
17.20.070   156.061
17.20.080   156.062
17.20.090   156.063
17.24.010   156.075
17.24.020   156.076
17.24.030   156.077
17.24.040   156.078; 156.999
17.24.050   156.079
17.28.010   156.080
17.28.020   156.080
17.28.030   156.080
17.28.040   156.080
17.32.010   156.035
17.32.020   156.036
17.32.030   156.037
17.32.040   156.038
17.32.050   156.039
18.16.010   92.20
18.16.020   92.20
18.16.030   92.20
18.16.040   92.20
18.16.050   92.20
18.16.060   92.21
18.16.070   92.22
18.16.080   92.22
18.16.090   92.23
18.16.100   92.24
18.16.110   92.25
18.16.120   92.26
18.16.130   92.27
18.16.140   92.28
18.16.150   92.28
18.16.160   92.29
18.16.170   92.30
18.16.180   92.31
18.16.190   92.32
18.16.200   92.33
18.16.210   92.34
18.16.220   92.35
18.16.230   92.36; 92.99
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.              Date Passed Code Section
13.12.091             - -         54.34;
                                  54.35
76                    - -         152.04
109                   - -         152.04
16                    - -1910     92.58
20                    - -1910     114.99
21                    - -1910     92.08;
                                  92.58
23                    - -1910     70.02
33                    - -1911     11.01
34                    - -1911     31.17—
                                  31.18
                                  152.01;
35                    - -1911     152.02;
                                  152.99
                                  50.01—
                                  50.28;
43                    - -1913     50.45—
                                  50.50;
                                  50.99
                                  152.20—
50                    - -1917     152.35;
                                  152.99
52                    - -1917     50.04;
                                  50.08
57                    - -1917     152.04;
                                  152.99
58                    - -1918     50.09
60                    - -1918     152.03;
                                  152.99
73                    - -1920     152.06
85                    - -1921     54.21—
                                  54.33
                                  92.01—
92                    - -1925     92.07;
                                  92.58
104                   - -1928     130.07;
                                  130.99
108                   - -1929     Ch. 72, Schd. I
109                   - -1930     Ch. 72, Schd. I;
                                  Ch. 72, Schd. II
118                   - -1934     152.05
                                  92.20—
139                   - -1946     92.36;
                                  92.99
151                   - -1951     Ch. 72, Schd. I
                                  150.20—
167                   - -1956     150.27;
                                  150.99
                                  92.50—
176                   - -1959     92.58;
                                  92.99
180                   - -1960     70.03;
                                  70.99
                                  50.04;
186                   - -1962     50.08;
                                  50.09
                                  51.20—
187                   - -1962     51.24;
                                  51.99
                                  154.01—
193                   - -1964     154.07;
                                  154.99
196                   - -1965     11.02
203                   - -1969     50.04
204                   - -1969     51.20
72-1                  - -1972     51.20
72-2                  - -1972     30.01—
                                  30.03
73-1                  - -1973     31.30
74-2                  - -1974     50.04
74-3                  - -1974     51.20
76-1                  - -1976     130.14
76-2                  - -1976     130.13
78-20                 - -1978     50.04
78-30                 - -1978     51.20
79-1                  - -1979     51.20
31                    6-4-1979    TSO Table II
81-1                  - -1981     51.20
81-2                  - -1981     50.04
3, Series 1981        12-7-1981   TSO Table I
82-3                  - -1982     31.31
82-4                  - -1982     31.18
82-5                  - -1982     51.23
                                  130.02—
                                  130.06;
                                  130.08;
82-7                  - -1982     130.09;
                                  130.15;
                                  130.16;
                                  130.18;
                                  130.23
82-8                  - -1982     50.01
82-10                 - -1982     10.99
                                  110.15—
82-13                 - -1982     110.20;
                                  110.35—
                                  110.39
82-61                 - -1982     54.33
                                  10.01—
-                     2-7-1983    10.09;
                                  10.99
85-9.63               - -1985     130.17;
                                  130.99
85-9.73               - -1985     130.19;
                                  130.99
86-1                  - -1986     31.15
86-2                  - -1986     31.16
88-1                  - -1988     31.01
                                  153.01—
89-2                  - -1989     153.09;
                                  153.99
92-1                  - -1992     32.01
                                  50.04;
94-1                  - -1994     50.09;
                                  51.20—
                                  51.22
                                  94.01—
95-2                  - -1995     94.05;
                                  94.99
                                  156.001—
                                  156.004;
                                  156.020—
                                  156.022;
                                  156.035—
95-3                  - -1995     156.039;
                                  156.055—
                                  156.063;
                                  156.075—
                                  156.080;
                                  156.999
                                  113.01—
                                  113.07;
                                  113.20—
96-13.20              - -1996     113.46;
                                  113.60—
                                  113.68;
                                  113.99
16.0                  2-2-1998    TSO Table I
16.1                  2-3-1998    TSO Table I
99-5.04.090           - -1999     110.21
99-9                  - -1999     130.10
16.02 (2000)          8-7-2000    TSO Table I
16.03 (2000)          11-6-2000   TSO Table I
                                  10.99;
-, Series 2000        1-8-2001    130.11;
                                  130.99
                                  33.01—
                                  33.03;
3.08.010, Series 2001 8-21-2001   33.15—
                                  33.19;
                                  33.30—
                                  33.33;
2, Series 2002        8-5-2002    53.01—
                                  53.07
                                  131.01;
9.88.010, Series 2002 10-7-2002   131.02;
                                  131.99
-                     1-10-2003   130.12;
                                  130.99
13.06, Series 2003    2-17-2003   52.01—
                                  52.06
13.08, Series 2003    5-5-2003    51.25—
                                  51.28
16.4 (2003)           5-5-2003    TSO Table I
5.04.090, Series 2003 6-16-2003   110.17;
                                  110.99
9.76, Series 2003     6-16-2003   130.21;
                                  130.99
9.77, Series 2003     6-16-2003   130.22;
                                  130.99
1, Series 2004        6-7-2004    TSO Table II
2, Series 2004        6-7-2004    70.01;
                                  70.99
3, Series 2004        8-16-2004   110.21
1-2006                2-6-2005    110.41
                                  93.01—
2, Series 2006        8-7-2006    93.05;
                                  93.99
4-2006, Series 2006   11-30-2006  51.01—
                                  51.06
2, Series 2007        5-22-2007   110.01
3, Series 2007        9-17-2007   130.20;
                                  130.99
                                  114.01—
                                  114.15;
1-2009                7-6-2009    114.99;
                                  156.020;
                                  156.041
                                  150.40—
2-2009                9-2-2009    150.44;
                                  150.99
                                  111.15—
2010-3                6-21-2010   111.17;
                                  111.99
2011-1                3-7-2011    TSO Table II
2011-4                9-6-2011    TSO Table II
2011-5                10-10-2011  110.40
2011-6                12-5-2011   TSO Table II
                                  111.01;
2013-1                3-4-2013    111.02;
                                  111.99
2013-2                6-3-2013    111.01;
                                  111.02
                                  71.30—
2014-1                7-7-2014    71.34;
                                  71.99
2015-2                4-6-2015    55.01
                                  130.01;
2015-3                6-1-2015    130.11;
                                  130.99
2016-1                4-18-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-2                10-3-2016   71.01;
                                  71.99
2017-1                3-20-2017   71.01;
                                  71.99
2017-2                4-3-2017    150.01—
                                  150.06
2017-3                5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2017-4                5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2017-5                5-15-2017   TSO Table I
                                  33.02;
2017-6, Series 2017   7-17-2017   33.16;
                                  33.31
2017-7                10-16-2017  156.040
2018-1                5-8-2018    TSO Table III
2018-2                6-18-2018   TSO Table I
2018-3                6-18-2018   TSO Table I
2018-4                10-1-2018   TSO Table III
2018-5                10-15-2018  TSO Table III
2018-6, Series 2018   11-5-2018   TSO Table IV
2019-1                1-7-2019    155.01—
                                  155.16
                                  151.01—
2019-2                2-4-2019    151.03;
                                  151.99
2019-3                3-4-2019    51.20;
                                  51.29
                                  91.01—
2019-4                7-1-2019    91.08;
                                  91.99
2020-1                1-6-2020    31.02
                                  10.99;
                                  70.99;
                                  94.99;
2020-2                5-4-2020    110.99;
                                  111.99;
                                  114.99;
                                  130.99;
                                  153.99
2020-4                8-3-2020    110.41
2020-6                12-7-2020   50.25
2021-1                1-4-2021    TSO Table III
2021-2                4-5-2021    TSO Table IV
2021-3                4-5-2021    TSO Table IV
2021-5                12-13-2021  TSO Table III
2022-2                2-7-2022    TSO Table I
2022-3                5-2-2022    54.20
2022-4                6-20-2022   TSO Table I
2022-5                6-20-2022   TSO Table I
                                  71.15—
2022-6                11-7-2022   71.19;
                                  71.99
2023-1                1-3-2023    TSO Table I
2023-2                1-3-2023    TSO Table I
                                  90.01—
2023-3, Series 2023   3-6-2023    90.08;
                                  90.99
2023-5                11-6-2023   54.01—
                                  54.06
                                  31.23;
2024-1                - -2024     32.15—
                                  32.25
2024-2                3- -2024    TSO Table II
2024-3                5-5-2024    Ch. 72, Schd. III
2024-4                5-20-2024   TSO Table I
2024-5                5-20-2024   TSO Table I
                                 
 
13.12.091   - -   54.34; 54.35
76   - -   152.04
109   - -   152.04
16   - -1910   92.58
20   - -1910   114.99
21   - -1910   92.08; 92.58
23   - -1910   70.02
33   - -1911   11.01
34   - -1911   31.17—31.18
35   - -1911   152.01; 152.02; 152.99
43   - -1913   50.01—50.28; 50.45—50.50; 50.99
50   - -1917   152.20—152.35; 152.99
52   - -1917   50.04; 50.08
57   - -1917   152.04; 152.99
58   - -1918   50.09
60   - -1918   152.03; 152.99
73   - -1920   152.06
85   - -1921   54.21—54.33
92   - -1925   92.01—92.07; 92.58
104   - -1928   130.07; 130.99
108   - -1929   Ch. 72, Schd. I
109   - -1930   Ch. 72, Schd. I; Ch. 72, Schd. II
118   - -1934   152.05
139   - -1946   92.20—92.36; 92.99
151   - -1951   Ch. 72, Schd. I
167   - -1956   150.20—150.27; 150.99
176   - -1959   92.50—92.58; 92.99
180   - -1960   70.03; 70.99
186   - -1962   50.04; 50.08; 50.09
187   - -1962   51.20—51.24; 51.99
193   - -1964   154.01—154.07; 154.99
196   - -1965   11.02
203   - -1969   50.04
204   - -1969   51.20
72-1   - -1972   51.20
72-2   - -1972   30.01—30.03
73-1   - -1973   31.30
74-2   - -1974   50.04
74-3   - -1974   51.20
76-1   - -1976   130.14
76-2   - -1976   130.13
78-20   - -1978   50.04
78-30   - -1978   51.20
79-1   - -1979   51.20
31   6-4-1979   TSO Table II
81-1   - -1981   51.20
81-2   - -1981   50.04
3, Series 1981   12-7-1981   TSO Table I
82-3   - -1982   31.31
82-4   - -1982   31.18
82-5   - -1982   51.23
82-7   - -1982   130.02—130.06; 130.08; 130.09; 130.15; 130.16; 130.18; 130.23
82-8   - -1982   50.01
82-10   - -1982   10.99
82-13   - -1982   110.15—110.20; 110.35—110.39
82-61   - -1982   54.33
-   2-7-1983   10.01—10.09; 10.99
85-9.63   - -1985   130.17; 130.99
85-9.73   - -1985   130.19; 130.99
86-1   - -1986   31.15
86-2   - -1986   31.16
88-1   - -1988   31.01
89-2   - -1989   153.01—153.09; 153.99
92-1   - -1992   32.01
94-1   - -1994   50.04; 50.09; 51.20—51.22
95-2   - -1995   94.01—94.05; 94.99
95-3   - -1995   156.001—156.004; 156.020—156.022; 156.035—156.039;
156.055—156.063; 156.075—156.080; 156.999
96-13.20   - -1996   113.01—113.07; 113.20—113.46; 113.60—113.68; 113.99
16.0   2-2-1998   TSO Table I
16.1   2-3-1998   TSO Table I
99-5.04.090   - -1999   110.21
99-9   - -1999   130.10
16.02 (2000)   8-7-2000   TSO Table I
16.03 (2000)   11-6-2000   TSO Table I
-, Series 2000   1-8-2001   10.99; 130.11; 130.99
3.08.010, Series 2001   8-21-2001   33.01—33.03; 33.15—33.19; 33.30—33.33;
2, Series 2002   8-5-2002   53.01—53.07
9.88.010, Series 2002   10-7-2002   131.01; 131.02; 131.99
-   1-10-2003   130.12; 130.99
13.06, Series 2003   2-17-2003   52.01—52.06
13.08, Series 2003   5-5-2003   51.25—51.28
16.4 (2003)   5-5-2003   TSO Table I
5.04.090, Series 2003   6-16-2003   110.17; 110.99
9.76, Series 2003   6-16-2003   130.21; 130.99
9.77, Series 2003   6-16-2003   130.22; 130.99
1, Series 2004   6-7-2004   TSO Table II
2, Series 2004   6-7-2004   70.01; 70.99
3, Series 2004   8-16-2004   110.21
1-2006   2-6-2005   110.41
2, Series 2006   8-7-2006   93.01—93.05; 93.99
4-2006, Series 2006   11-30-2006   51.01—51.06
2, Series 2007   5-22-2007   110.01
3, Series 2007   9-17-2007   130.20; 130.99
1-2009   7-6-2009   114.01—114.15; 114.99; 156.020; 156.041
2-2009   9-2-2009   150.40—150.44; 150.99
2010-3   6-21-2010   111.15—111.17; 111.99
2011-1   3-7-2011   TSO Table II
2011-4   9-6-2011   TSO Table II
2011-5   10-10-2011   110.40
2011-6   12-5-2011   TSO Table II
2013-1   3-4-2013   111.01; 111.02; 111.99
2013-2   6-3-2013   111.01; 111.02
2014-1   7-7-2014   71.30—71.34; 71.99
2015-2   4-6-2015   55.01
2015-3   6-1-2015   130.01; 130.11; 130.99
2016-1   4-18-2016   TSO Table IV
2016-2   10-3-2016   71.01; 71.99
2017-1   3-20-2017   71.01; 71.99
2017-2   4-3-2017   150.01—150.06
2017-3   5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2017-4   5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2017-5   5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2017-6, Series 2017   7-17-2017   33.02; 33.16; 33.31
2017-7   10-16-2017   156.040
2018-1   5-8-2018   TSO Table III
2018-2   6-18-2018   TSO Table I
2018-3   6-18-2018   TSO Table I
2018-4   10-1-2018   TSO Table III
2018-5   10-15-2018   TSO Table III
2018-6, Series 2018   11-5-2018   TSO Table IV
2019-1   1-7-2019   155.01—155.16
2019-2   2-4-2019   151.01—151.03; 151.99
2019-3   3-4-2019   51.20; 51.29
2019-4   7-1-2019   91.01—91.08; 91.99
2020-1   1-6-2020   31.02
2020-2   5-4-2020   10.99; 70.99; 94.99; 110.99; 111.99; 114.99; 130.99; 153.99
2020-4   8-3-2020   110.41
2020-6   12-7-2020   50.25
2021-1   1-4-2021   TSO Table III
2021-2   4-5-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-3   4-5-2021   TSO Table IV
2021-5   12-13-2021   TSO Table III
2022-2   2-7-2022   TSO Table I
2022-3   5-2-2022   54.20
2022-4   6-20-2022   TSO Table I
2022-5   6-20-2022   TSO Table I
2022-6   11-7-2022   71.15—71.19; 71.99
2023-1   1-3-2023   TSO Table I
2023-2   1-3-2023   TSO Table I
2023-3, Series 2023   3-6-2023   90.01—90.08; 90.99
2023-5   11-6-2023   54.01—54.06
2024-1   - -2024   31.23; 32.15—32.25
2024-2   3- -2024   TSO Table II
2024-3   5-5-2024   Ch. 72, Schd. III
2024-4   5-20-2024   TSO Table I
2024-5   5-20-2024   TSO Table I
 
