LA JARA, COLORADO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-3, passed 10-12-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-1
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF LA JARA,
COLORADO, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF LA JARA DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Board of
Trustees of the Town of La Jara are inadequately arranged and classified and
are insufficient in form and substances for the complete preservation of the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the municipality and for
the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of Legislature of the State of Colorado empower and
authorize the Board of Trustees of the Town of La Jara to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing and all new ordinances not heretofore
adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in
book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Board of Trustees of the Town of
La Jara has authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the
ordinances of the Town of La Jara of a general and permanent nature and
publication of such ordinance in book form, and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
and safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE TOWN OF LA
JARA, COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Board of Trustees of the Town of La
Jara as revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are
hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of
La Jara, Colorado."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Title I: General Provisions
Title III: Administration
Title V: Public Works
Title VII: Traffic Code
Title IX: General Regulations
Title XI: Business Regulations
Title XIII: General Offenses
Title XV: Land Usage
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Town of La Jara
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effective as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Town of La Jara on this
14th day of January, 2021.
                                          By:      /s/
                                                Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Town Clerk
[TOWN SEAL]
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Code
   
10.01   Adoption of code
   
10.02   Title and scope
   
10.03   Code supersedes prior ordinances
   
10.04   Adoption of secondary codes by reference
   
10.05   Repeal of ordinances not contained in code
   
10.06   Matters not affected by repeal
   
10.07   Ordinances saved from repeal
   
10.08   Changes in previously adopted ordinances
Definitions and Usage
   
10.20   Definitions
   
10.21   Computation of time
   
10.22   Title of office
   
10.23   Usage of terms
   
10.24   Grammatical interpretation
General Provisions
   
10.35   Titles and headings not part of code
   
10.36   Authorized acts
   
10.37   Prohibited acts
   
10.38   Timeliness of action
   
10.39   Purpose of code
   
10.40   Repeal of ordinances
   
10.41   Publication of ordinances
   
10.42   Amendments to code
   
10.43   Supplementation of code
   
10.44   Examination of code
   
10.45   Copy of code on file
   
10.46   Sale of code books
   
10.47   Severability
   
10.48   Inspections
   
10.49   Corporate seal
   
10.99   General penalty
CODE
§ 10.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The published code known as the La Jara Municipal Code, of which one copy is
now on file in the office of the Town Clerk and may be inspected during regular
business hours, is enacted and adopted by reference as a primary code and
incorporated herein as if set out at length. This primary code has been
promulgated by the town, as a codification of all the ordinances of the town of
a general and permanent nature, for the purpose of providing an up-to-date code
of ordinances, properly organized and indexed, in published form for the use of
the citizens and officers of the town.
§ 10.02 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   This code constitutes a compilation, revision and codification of all the
ordinances of the Town of La Jara, Colorado, of a general and permanent nature,
and shall be known as the La Jara Municipal Code.
§ 10.03 CODE SUPERSEDES PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   This code shall supersede all other municipal codes consisting of
compilations of general and permanent ordinances and parts of ordinances passed
by the Board of Trustees.
§ 10.04 ADOPTION OF SECONDARY CODES BY REFERENCE.
   Secondary codes may be adopted by reference, as provided by state law.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES NOT CONTAINED IN CODE.
   All existing ordinances and portions of ordinances of a general and
permanent nature which are inconsistent with any ordinance included in the
adoption of this code are hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistency
therein as of the effective date of the ordinance adopting this code, except as
hereinafter provided.
§ 10.06 MATTERS NOT AFFECTED BY REPEAL.
   The repeal of ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general
nature by §
10.05 shall not affect any offense committed or act done, any penalty or
forfeiture incurred or any contract, right or obligation established prior to
the time said ordinances and parts of ordinances are repealed.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   (A)   The continuance in effect of temporary and/or special ordinances and
parts of ordinances, although omitted from this code, shall not be affected by
such omission therefrom, and the adoption of this code shall not repeal or
amend any such ordinance or part of any such ordinance.
   (B)   Among the ordinances not repealed or amended by the adoption of this
code are ordinances:
      (1)   Creating, opening, dedicating, naming, renaming, vacating or
closing specific streets, alleys and other public ways;
      (2)   Establishing the grades or lines of specific streets, sidewalks and
other public ways;
      (3)   Creating specific sewer and paving districts and other local
improvement districts;
      (4)   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation or specific local
improvement district bonds;
      (5)   Making special assessments for local improvement districts and
authorizing refunds from specific local improvement district bond proceeds;
      (6)   Annexing territory to or excluding territory from the town;
      (7)   Dedicating or accepting any specific plat or subdivision;
      (8)   Calling or providing for a specific election;
      (9)   Authorizing specific contracts for purchase of beneficial use of
water by the town;
      (10)   Approving or authorizing specific contracts with the state, with
other governmental bodies or with others;
      (11)   Authorizing a specific lease, sale or purchase of property;
      (12)   Granting rights-of-way or other rights and privileges to specific
railroad companies or other public carriers;
      (13)   Granting a specific gas company or other public utility the right
or privilege of constructing lines in the streets and alleys or of otherwise
using the streets and alleys;
      (14)   Granting a franchise to a specific public utility company or
establishing rights for or otherwise regulating a specific public utility
company;
      (15)   Appropriating money;
      (16)   Levying a temporary tax or fixing a temporary tax rate;
      (17)   Relating to salaries; and
      (18)   Amending the official zoning map.
§ 10.08 CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   In compiling and preparing the ordinances of the town for adoption and
revision as part of this code, certain grammatical changes and other changes
were made in one or more of said ordinances. It is the intention of the Board
of Trustees that all such changes be adopted as part of this code as if the
ordinances so changed had been previously formally amended to read as such.
DEFINITIONS AND USAGE
§ 10.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Town Council of the Town of La Jara.
   CODE. The La Jara Municipal Code as published and subsequently amended,
unless the context requires otherwise.
   COUNTY. The County of Conejos, Colorado.
   C.R.S. The Colorado Revised Statutes, including all amendments thereto.
   DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
   IN THE TOWN. All territory over which the town has, or shall hereafter
acquire, the jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other
regulatory powers.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Colorado, the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and
all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MISDEMEANOR. Violation and is not intended to mean crime or criminal
conduct.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law,
an affirmation or declaration may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases
the words swear and sworn shall be equivalent to the words affirm and affirmed.
   ORDINANCE. A law of the town; provided that a temporary or special law,
administrative action, orders or directive may be in the form of a resolution.
   OWNER. As applied to a building, land, motorized vehicle, animal or other
real or personal property, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety or any other person with a
possessory interest in the whole or a part of said building, land, motor
vehicle, animal or other real or personal property.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, joint
venture, joint stock company, club, company, business, trust or other
organization acting as a group or unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer or employee of any of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. The next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real property and tangible and intangible personal
property.
   PUBLIC WAY. Includes any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, trail, right-of- way or other public thoroughfare.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SHALL and MUST. Mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Colorado.
   STREET. Includes any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, lane, court, place, square, curb or other public thoroughfare
in the town which has been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public
use, or such other public property so designated in any law of this state, and
each of such words shall include all of them.
   TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TOWN. The Town of La Jara, Colorado, or the area within the territorial
limits of the Town of La Jara, Colorado, and such territory outside of the town
over which the town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional
or statutory provision.
   WRITTEN. Includes printed, typewritten, photocopied, mimeographed,
multigraphed or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.21 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Except as provided by applicable state law, the time within which an act is
to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day;
however, if the time for an act to be done shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the act shall be done upon the next regular business day
following such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
§ 10.22 TITLE OF OFFICE.
   Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission
means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the town, or
his or her designated representative.
§ 10.23 USAGE OF TERMS.
   All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the
common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law
shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate
meaning.
§ 10.24 GRAMMATICAL INTERPRETATION.
   The following grammatical rules shall apply to this code and to town
ordinances.
   (A)   Any gender includes the other genders.
   (B)   The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and
vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
   (D)   Words and phrases not specifically defined shall be construed
according to the context and approved usage of the language.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.35 TITLES AND HEADINGS NOT PART OF CODE.
   Chapter and subchapter titles, headings, numbers and titles of sections and
other divisions in this code, or in supplements made to this code are inserted
in this code, may be inserted in supplements to this code for the convenience
of persons using this code, shall not be deemed to in any way restrict, qualify
or limit the effect of the provisions set forth and contained in such section
or division, and are not part of this code.
§ 10.36 AUTHORIZED ACTS.
   When an ordinance or this code requires an act to be done, which may as well
be done by an agent, designee or representative as the principal shall
construe, such requirement shall be construed to include all such acts
performed when done by an authorized agent, designee or representative.
§ 10.37 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Whenever in this code or any town ordinance any act or omission is made
unlawful, it includes causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting,
suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
§ 10.38 TIMELINESS OF ACTION.
   In all cases where any ordinance or this code requires any act to be done in
a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the
prompt performance of such duty, or for compliance with such notice.
§ 10.39 PURPOSE OF CODE.
   The provisions of this code, and all proceedings under them, are to be
construed with a view to affect their objectives and to promote justice.
§ 10.40 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   The repeal of any provision of this code shall not affect any right which
has accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or
proceedings as commenced under or by virtue of the provision repealed, nor the
tenure of an office of any person holding office at the time when such repeal
shall take effect. The repeal of any provision of this code or of an ordinance
shall not repeal the repealing clause of such ordinance or revive any provision
or any ordinance theretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.41 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances as soon as possible after their adoption shall be recorded in
a book kept for that purpose and authenticated by the signature of the Mayor
and Town Clerk. All ordinances of a general or permanent nature, and those
imposing any fine, penalty or forfeiture, shall be published in the Valley
Courier. Such ordinances shall not take effect until 30 days after such
publication, except for ordinances calling for special elections or necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety and
containing the reasons making the same necessary in a separate section. The
excepted ordinances shall take effect in five days. The reasons making the
ordinance necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health
and safety shall be set forth in a separate section.
§ 10.42 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Ordinances and parts of ordinances of a permanent and general nature, passed
or adopted as required by state law after the adoption of this code, may be
passed or adopted either in the form of amendments to this code or without
specific reference to this code. However, in either case, all such ordinances
and parts of ordinances shall be deemed amendments to this code, and all of the
substantive, permanent and general parts of said ordinances and changes made
thereby shall be inserted and made in this code as provided in §
10.43.
§ 10.43 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause supplementation of this code to be
prepared and printed from time to time as it may see fit. All substantive,
permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees or
adopted by initiative and referendum, and all amendments and changes in
temporary and special ordinances or other measures included in this code prior
to the supplementation and since the previous supplementation, shall be
included.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk, or someone authorized and
directed by the Town Clerk, to keep up to date one certified copy of the book
containing this code, to be filed in the office of the Town Clerk for the use
of the public.
§ 10.44 EXAMINATION OF CODE.
   The Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem or appointed Trustee and Town Clerk shall carefully
examine at least one copy of the code adopted to see that it is a true and
correct copy. Similarly, after each supplement has been prepared, printed and
inserted in this code, the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem or appointed Trustee and Town
Clerk shall carefully examine at least one copy of this code as supplemented.
The copy of this code as originally adopted or amended shall constitute the
permanent and general ordinances of the town and shall be so accepted by the
courts of law, administrative tribunals and all others concerned.
§ 10.45 COPY OF CODE ON FILE.
   At least one up-to-date copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the
Town Clerk at all times, and such code may be available for public use in the
office of the Town Clerk for inspection by any interested person at any time
during regular office hours. In addition, the Town Clerk shall keep a master
copy, which shall be the official code of the Town of La Jara. Such code may
not be removed from the Town Clerk’s office except upon proper order of a court
of law.
§ 10.46 SALE OF CODE BOOKS.
   Copies of this code book may be purchased from the Town Clerk upon the
payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
§ 10.47 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, provision or part thereof shall be held unconstitutional or invalid,
the remainder of this code shall continue in full force and effect, it being
the legislative intent that this code would have been adopted even if such
unconstitutional or invalid matter had not been included therein. It is further
declared that, if any provision or part of this code, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of this
code and the application thereof to other persons shall not be affected
thereby.
§ 10.48 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
provision of this code or any ordinance, or whenever there is probable cause to
believe that there exists an ordinance violation in any building or upon any
premises within the jurisdiction of the town, any public inspector of the town
may, upon presentation of proper credentials and upon obtaining permission of
the occupant or if unoccupied, the owner, enter such building or premises at
all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by ordinance. In the event the occupant, or if unoccupied, the
owner, refuses entry to such building or premises, or the public inspector is
unable to obtain permission of such occupant or owner to enter such building or
premises, the public inspector is empowered to seek assistance from any court
of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
   (B)   Authority to enter premises under emergency. Law enforcement officers
certified with the state, members of the Fire Department, other fire
departments operating under a mutual assistance agreement or automatic aid
agreement with the town, certified emergency medical technicians and paramedics
during the course of employment with a governmental agency are hereby granted
the authority to enter private residences within the town without invitation
from the occupant of the residence at any time such persons have reasonable
grounds to believe a medical emergency is in progress within the subject
premises and the occupant of such premises is incapable of consenting to the
entry because of such medical emergency.
   (C)   Announcement of purpose and authority to enter premises. Unauthorized
entry pursuant to division (B) above shall be permissible only after the
individuals seeking entry have announced both their purpose and authority in a
loud and conspicuous voice and have waited a reasonable period of time for the
occupant to respond before making entry.
§ 10.49 CORPORATE SEAL.
   A seal one and three-quarter inches in diameter, the impression which is as
follows: in the center, the inscription “Town of La Jara, Colorado”,
incorporated March 11, 1902 shall be and hereby is declared to be the seal of
the town.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-29-1902; Ord. 11, passed 8-26-1902)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, any person
convicted of violating a provision of this code in a Municipal Court of record
may be fined an amount not to exceed $2,650.
      (2)   (a)   The limitation on municipal court fines set forth in division
(A)(1) above shall be adjusted for inflation on January 1, 2014, and on January
1 of each year thereafter.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(2), INFLATION means the annual
percentage change in the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, consumer price index for Denver- Boulder, all items, all urban
consumers or its successor index.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating a provision of this code in a
Municipal Court which is not of record may be fined an amount not to exceed
$300.
   (C)   In fining a violator, the Municipal Judge shall not exceed the
sentence or fine limitations established by ordinance.
(C.R.S. § 13-10-113)
   (D)   Surcharges.
      (1)   Surcharges for traffic code offenses. A surcharge equal to 40% of
the fine imposed is hereby levied on each offence under the Model Traffic Code
for Colorado Municipalities as adopted by the Town of La Jara, resulting in a
conviction or a deferred judgment and sentence, which Municipal Court action is
charged pursuant to Summons and Complaint issued by the La Jara Police
Department. These surcharges shall be paid to the Clerk of the La Jara
Municipal Court by the defendant, and such sums paid shall be added to the
General Fund of the Town of La Jara.
      (2)   Surcharges for any and all other offenses. A surcharge equal to 40%
of the fine imposed is hereby levied on each offence under with respect to a
violation of any ordinance of the Town of La Jara providing for fines and
penalties for the violation thereof, resulting in a conviction or a deferred
judgment and sentence, which Municipal Court action is charged pursuant to
Summons and Complaint issued by the La Jara Police Department. These surcharges
shall be paid to the Clerk of the La Jara Municipal Court by the defendant, and
such sums paid shall be added to the General Fund of the Town of La Jara.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 10-8-2020)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   TOWN ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
38.   PROCUREMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Extension of Social Security benefits to employees and officers of the
town
§ 30.01 EXTENSION OF SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS TO EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS OF THE
TOWN.
   (A)   The 38th General Assembly of the state, in regular session, enacted a
statute, known as Chapter III 7 C.R.S. 1953, which is the enabling Act provided
for in § 218 of Public Law 7374, 81st Congress, which designated the Department
of Employment Security, State of Colorado, to act as the department to
implement the coverage of employees and officers under the said Old Age and
Survivors’ Insurance System. The town is hereby authorized to execute and
deliver to the Department of Employment Security a plan, or plans, and
agreement, required under § 5 of said enabling Act and the Social Security Act,
to extend coverage to employees and officers of the town and do all other
necessary things to effectuate coverage of employees and officers under the Old
Age and Survivors’ Insurance System.
   (B)   The Clerk is hereby authorized to establish a system of payroll
deduction to be matched by payments by the town to be paid into the
Contribution Fund of the state through the Department of Employment Security,
and to make charges of this tax to the Fund, or Funds, from which wage or
salary payments are issued to employees of the town. Such payments are to be
made in accordance with the provision of §§ 1400 and 1410 of the Federal
Insurance Contribution Act on all services which constitute employment within
the meaning of that Act. Payments made to the Department of Employment Security
shall be due and payable on or before the eighteenth day of the month
immediately following the completed calendar quarter, and such payments which
are delinquent shall bear interest at the rate of 0.5% per month until such
time as payments are made.
   (C)   Appropriation is hereby made from the proper fund, or funds, of the
town in the necessary amount to pay into the contribution fund as provided in §
5(c)(1) of the enabling Act and in accordance with the plan, or plans, and
agreement authority is given to the Mayor and the Clerk of the town to enter
into an agreement with the Department of Employment Security, which agreement
shall be in accordance with House Bill No. 291 and with paragraph 218 of the
Social Security Act.
(Ord. 112, passed 5-8-1956)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
31.01   Meetings
   
31.02   Resignation of officers
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Rules of procedure and order of business
   
31.05   Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.06   Compensation schedule
   
31.07   Terms of office
§ 31.01 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold one regular meeting on the second Thursday
of every month at 6:00 p.m. at the Town Hall. The Mayor or any two members of
the Board of Trustees shall have the power to call special meetings of the
Board, but no such meeting shall be held unless notice thereof shall have been
served on each member of the Board not absent from the town, by the Town Police
Chief, at least two hours before the time of the meeting, stating the time,
place and object of any such special meeting. All meetings of the Board of
Trustees shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 106, passed 5-4-1954)
§ 31.02 RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS.
   Resignation of any officers of the town, except the Mayor, must be addressed
to the Mayor in writing, and shall be placed before the Board of Trustees at
the next regular meeting for acceptance or rejection. A resignation of the
Mayor must be addressed directly to the Board of Trustees and brought before it
at a regular meeting.
(Ord. 106, passed 5-4-1954)
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   By the concurrent vote of any four members of the Board of Trustees, the
Mayor, any member of said Board or any officer of said town may be removed from
office; but no such removal shall be made without a charge in writing being
served upon said person at least three days prior to the time that a hearing
shall be held upon said removal, unless the officer against whom the charge is
made shall have removed out of the limits of the town. When any officer shall
cease to reside within the town limits, it shall be deemed good ground for his
or her removal from office.
(Ord. 106, passed 5-4-1954)
§ 31.04 RULES OF PROCEDURE AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following rules of procedure and order of business shall be adhered to
by the Board of Trustees at its meetings, unless it shall be temporarily
suspended by a unanimous vote of the members present.
   (A)   Rule 1. The Town Police Chief shall serve all notices of special
meetings and shall attend all meetings of the Board.
   (B)   Rule 2. On the passage of every ordinance and every resolution or
order to enter into a contract or for the appropriation of money, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded, if any two members demand it.
   (C)   Rule 3. Appointments to offices not elected shall be by ballot of the
Board of Trustees and the vote of a majority of the members present shall be
required.
   (D)   Rule 4. The following order of business shall be observed:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes of the last regular meeting and subsequent
special meetings and approving the same;
      (3)   Reports of officers;
      (4)   Reports of standing committees;
      (5)   Reports of special committees;
      (6)   Reading and allowance of bills;
      (7)   Petition and other communications;
      (8)   Unfinished business; and
      (9)   New business.
   (E)   Rule 5.
      (1)   Standing committees shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first
regular meeting after the election for a term of two years, and the person
first named on the committee shall be Chairperson thereof.
      (2)   The standing committees shall be as follows:
         (a)   Finance Committee;
         (b)   Police Committee;
         (c)   Fire Department Committee;
         (d)   Health and Sanitation Committee;
         (e)   Streets, Alleys and Sewers Committee; and
         (f)   Civic Improvements and Buildings Committee.
      (3)   Such other committees as the Board of Trustees shall deem necessary
may be appointed from time to time.
   (F)   Rule 6. Debates: no member shall speak more than twice on the same
general question or more than once on a previous question without the leave of
a majority of the Board nor more than once in any case until every member shall
have had an opportunity to speak. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order
and shall be undebatable. General proceedings shall be conducted under Robert’s
Rules of Order.
(Ord. 106, passed 5-4-1954)
§ 31.05 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first regular meeting after each election, the Board of Trustees
shall choose one of the Trustees as Mayor Pro Tem, who in the absence of the
Mayor from any meeting, or during the Mayor’s absence from the town, or in his
or her inability to act, shall perform his or her duties. At said meeting, the
Board of Trustees shall appoint a Town Clerk, Treasurer, Traffic Engineer,
Police Magistrate, Town Police Chief, Town Attorney and such other officers as
the Board may deem necessary, for a term of two years. The Board shall choose a
Clerk Pro Tem to perform the duties of the Town Clerk during his or her absence
or inability to act. Before proceeding to ballot for such officers the Mayor
shall appoint two members of the Board of Trustees as tellers, and at the
conclusion of the balloting the result shall be announced, giving the total
number of votes required to elect each candidate, and the number of votes cast
for each candidate. Whenever any candidate shall have received a majority of
votes cast, the Mayor shall so announce and shall announce that such candidate
has been duly elected. The Board shall thereupon direct the Clerk to issue a
certificate and deliver the same to the person elected to such office.
(Ord. 106, passed 5-4-1954)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Mayor. For the duties and responsibilities associated with the
position, the Mayor of the town shall receive as compensation the amount of
$100 per month plus a monthly credit against his or her water and sewer charges
for his or her principal residence equal to, but not more than, the amount
charged for any given month during the Mayor’s current term of office.
   (B)   Other members of the Board of Trustees. For the duties and
responsibilities associated with the position as a member of the Board of
Trustees, such member shall receive as monthly compensation an amount equal to,
but not more than, the water and sewer charges for his or her principal
residence for any given month during that member’s current term of office.
   (C)   Commencement of compensation. The compensation as herein provided for
the Mayor and members of the Boards of Trustees shall not take effect during
the current term for which such officer has been elected or appointed. The
compensation as herein provided shall take effect after the regularly scheduled
municipal election, which shall be April 1, 2014, and shall begin the month the
duly elected Mayor and the other members of the Board of Trustees have been
sworn in for the next term of office.
   (D)   Mandatory review. During the budget process for each even-numbered
year, the Board of Trustees shall consider adjustment of the amount of
compensation set forth in this section. As part of this review, the Board of
Trustees shall review compensation for elected officials provided by comparable
Colorado municipalities, using appropriate sources including, but not limited
to, the Colorado Municipal League. Any adjustment of compensation shall be by
ordinance only.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 31.07 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Four-year terms for Trustees. At the April 4, 1978, election, six
trustees shall be elected. The three candidates for Trustee receiving the
highest number of votes shall be elected for four-year terms, and the three
candidates for Trustee receiving the next highest number of votes shall be
elected for two-year terms. At the next subsequent regular election and at each
regular election thereafter, three Trustees shall be elected to serve four-year
terms.
   (B)   Four-year term for Mayor. At the April 4, 1978, election, and at the
regular election every four years thereafter, a Mayor shall be elected to serve
a four-year term.
   (C)   Vacancies. The Board of Trustees shall have power, by appointment, to
fill all vacancies in the Board or in any other elected office, and the person
so appointed shall hold office until the next regular election and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified. If the term of the person creating the
vacancy was to extend beyond the next regular election, the person elected to
fill the vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term. Where a vacancy or
vacancies exist in the office of Trustee and a successor or successors are to
be elected at the next election to fill the unexpired term or terms, the three
candidates for Trustee receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected
to four-year terms and the candidate or candidates receiving the next highest
number of votes, in descending order, shall be elected to fill the unexpired
term or terms.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 10-4-1977)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Town Manager
   
32.02   Town Clerk/Treasurer
   
32.03   Assistant Clerk/Court Clerk
   
32.04   Police Chief
   
32.05   Police Sergeant
   
32.06   Police officer
   
32.07   Maintenance Supervisor
   
32.08   Maintenance person
   
32.09   Municipal Judge
   
32.10   Court Clerk
   
32.11   Building Inspector
   
32.12   Town Attorney
§ 32.01 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Employment status. The Town Manager is an appointed position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Perform highly responsible administrative
and managerial work in serving as the chief administrative officer of the town.
The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Board of Trustees for the
efficient administration of the town’s affairs. The Town Manager serves at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Functions, duties and nature of work. The following examples are
illustrative only and not intended to be all inclusive:
      (1)   With the Town Clerk, will prepare, administer and monitor the
annual budget and capital improvement plans as required and necessary. The
Administrator also advises the Board as to the financial condition of the town
and ensures the preparation of monthly financial status reports and the like;
      (2)   Will ensure that state, federal, private foundation and the like,
grant applications are prepared to take advantage of all sources of additional
revenue to the town;
      (3)   Will establish, subject to Board approval, appropriate personnel
safety and risk management rules and regulations for governing officers and
employees of the town;
      (4)   Will ensure that that generally accepted accounting standards are
maintained to improve and update records management and financial accounting
systems to benefit the town;
      (5)   Will ensure that comprehensive plans and land use regulations
(e.g., zoning, subdivision) as required and necessary are maintained in the
town;
      (6)   Will review and analyze the delivery of local services to achieve a
greater cost-effectiveness in municipal operations;
      (7)   Will develop proposals to achieve intergovernmental cooperation
between town and other units of local government to realize cost savings in
such areas as joint purchasing, law enforcement, street repairs and
maintenance, animal control and the like as directed by the Town Board;
      (8)   Will work with department heads and employees to solve internal
organizational problems both within departments and across departmental lines;
      (9)   Will attend Town Board meetings and other committee meetings as
needed;
      (10)   Will meet with individuals, groups, community or regional
organizations and business or industrial concerns to represent the town and
discuss town policies;
      (11)   Will attend conferences and seminars to keep abreast of current
trends in the field of municipal management;
      (12)   With the Town Clerk, will prepare and approve agendas for Town
Board meetings;
      (13)   Will perform other such duties as may be prescribed by ordinance
or by directive of the Town Board;
      (14)   Will be in charge of all human resources management including all
hiring and firings; and
      (15)   All other things as assigned by the Town Board.
    (D)   Required knowledge, education, skills and abilities.
      (1)   Knowledge of departments and functions of local municipal
government;
      (2)   Knowledge of administrative practices and procedures;
      (3)   Ability to train, supervises, coordinate and motivate employees;
      (4)   Ability to explain, interpret and discuss town policies and
regulations;
      (5)   Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing;
      (6)   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships
with citizens, elected officials, department heads, employees and other
agencies or departments;
      (7)   Knowledge of planning and community development techniques and
practices;
      (8)   Knowledge of human resources management; and
      (9)   Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, Finance or Public
Administration; Masters preferred. Plus three years managerial experience in
either public or private sector.
§ 32.02 TOWN CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Employment status. The Town Clerk is a hired position and not an
appointed position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Responsible for all duties of a financial
or clerical nature along with responsibilities of a Certified Municipal Clerk
(CMC).
   (C)   Supervision received. Is responsible to the Town Manager.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. In charge of all Assistant Clerks and the Clerk
of Courts.
   (E)   Duties. Performs a combination of clerical tasks including:
      (1)   All duties specified in state law for the Clerk of a statutory
town;
      (2)   All duties specified in state law for the Treasurer of a statutory
town, including, but not limited to, maintenance of town accounting records in
a manner consistent with specifications of the State Auditor and GASB
standards, preparation of bills, statements and receipts for all town financial
transactions; and maintenance of town investments;
      (3)   Maintenance of town records and files, including observance of
specifications of State Archivist;
      (4)   Preparation and distribution of all town mail;
      (5)   Preparation and distribution of payroll, including maintenance of
personnel files;
      (6)   Meeting with the public, including taking of water/sewer bill
payments;
      (7)   Other related duties as assigned;
      (8)   Information of building permits;
      (9)   In charge of all elections; and
      (10)   Other duties as assigned by the Town Manager.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge, skills and abilities; working knowledge of basic
clerical tasks including filing, record keeping and billing procedures; working
knowledge of basic accounting procedures including accrual accounting; computer
skills and ability to work with the public;
      (2)   Desired education and experience AAS in Business Administration,
Finance or Accounting from a recognized college or three years experience as an
Assistant Clerk or legal secretary. Must either be a Certified Municipal Clerk
or be able to obtain CMC within four years of employment.
(Ord. 5, passed 5-7-1902)
§ 32.03 ASSISTANT CLERK/COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Employment status. Assistant Clerk is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Performs administrative support duties in
the areas of general office functions, monthly billings, collect water and
sewer payments, posting of payments, issue licenses, and greet the general
public.
   (C)   Supervision received. Is responsible to Town Clerk and Town Manager.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. None.
   (E)   Essential duties. Performs a combination of clerical tasks including:
      (1)   Performs backup and assists with official administrative duties on
behalf of the town;
      (2)   Assists Town Clerk with elections; orders supplies; provides public
with information; publishes notices;
      (3)   Assists Town Clerk in retaining records and filing documents.
Disposes of materials no longer necessary to keep. Assists in maintaining the
town’s official records; develops and updates retention and destruction
schedules. Researches minutes and documents for information requested;
      (4)   Prepares for and collects monies for utility bills, sales taxes
licenses, business license fees and other monies due the town;
      (5)   Assists with the processing of liquor licensing, posts notices and
advises applicants requesting liquor licenses. Issues all other town permits
and licenses;
      (6)   Answers the telephone and waits on customers at counter. Responds
to questions of the public; researches payments due, receives monies and
prepares receipts of same;
      (7)   Sorts, processes and distributes incoming and outgoing mail; and
      (8)   Perform other duties as assigned and required.
    (F)   Experience and training. High school diploma or GED equivalent. At
least two years of directly related office or clerical experience.
   (G)   Knowledge, skills and abilities.
      (1)   Skill and ability to keyboard efficiently and accurately while
using a computer;
      (2)   Possesses the knowledge, skill and ability to compose and format
business letters and minutes;
      (3)   Knowledgeable and able to communicate with the public in a
friendly, professional manner;
      (4)   Ability to use mathematical reasoning as necessary to carry out the
regulations and requirements of the position;
      (5)   Ability to utilize analytical skills and apply results; and
      (6)   Ability to use and apply technology.
§ 32.04 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Employment status. Police Chief is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement. The Police Chief shall plan and administer the law
enforcement program and activities of the town and do related work as required
and under the direction of the Town Manager.
   (C)   Distinguishing characteristics. The Police Chief has administrative
charge of the Police Department. He or she directs town law enforcement
activities subject to decisions of general policies of the town and to carry
out all the ordinances and resolutions of the town.
   (D)   Typical tasks. Plans organizes and directs the maintenance of law and
order, the protection of life and property, the regulation of traffic, the
apprehension, arrest and detention of law violators and the maintenance of
police records; analyzes operational and service demands and devises plans and
procedures; confers with citizens and town officials on law enforcement
policies; analyzes operational costs and prepares budget estimates; coordinates
town law enforcement activities with those of other agencies; directs the
apprehension of persons sought by other law enforcement agencies; attends
police conferences; supervises police personnel and enforces discipline and
training regulations; directs the assignment of employees and equipment;
supervises special studies and the preparation of comprehensive reports;
attends regular Board meetings without exception unless specifically excused;
attends special Board meetings if requested. Will make sure that in his or her
absence a police officer will be in attendance at every Board meeting without
exception. All other duties as assigned.
   (E)   Minimum qualifications.
      (1)   Education and experience. Combination of training and experience
equivalent to graduation from an accredited college or university with a degree
in law enforcement or related field, and extensive and increasingly responsible
experience in law enforcement work including supervisory and administrative
experience;
      (2)   Knowledge and abilities. Thorough knowledge of the principles,
problems and techniques of municipal police administration; thorough knowledge
of the technical and operating practices and methods of law enforcement and
crime prevention; thorough knowledge of police requirements and the limitations
on police authority; thorough knowledge of the laws governing custody of
persons; search and seizure and the rules of evidence; ability to analyze
police problems and to plan policies and procedures; ability to command a
police force; ability to establish and maintain effective public relations;
      (3)   Certification. Must have current post certification; and
      (4)   Reports to. Is responsible to the Town Manager
§ 32.05 POLICE SERGEANT.
   (A)   Employment status. Patrol sergeant is a hired position.
   (B)   Supervision received. Is responsible to the Chief of Police and the
Town Manager.
   (C)   Supervision exercised. Patrol officers.
   (D)   Duties. As directed by the Chief of Police; will perform general law
enforcement duties including:
      (1)   Patrol duty;
      (2)   Traffic control:
         (a)   Day to day traffic control; and
         (b)   Specific traffic control requested by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   Apprehension of suspect criminals;
      (4)   Acts as a liaison between the community and the town government;
      (5)   Participates in community safety programs and information session;
      (6)   Animal control: responsible for trapping/capturing animals which
pose an immediate threat to community safety. In such instances the police
officers will respond to the direction of the Chief of Police. A police officer
may act on his or her own, however, to apprehend a dangerous animal;
      (7)   Prepares reports on criminal investigation arrests, traffic
violations, animal control and other activities;
      (8)   Other related duties assigned;
      (9)   Investigate crimes;
      (10)   Responsible for training and certification of all officers to
include scheduling courses;
       (11)   Prepare work schedule for approval of Chief of Police;
      (12)   To be available (in a timely manner) to patrol officers and Chief
of Police should emergencies arise;
      (13)   To report any and all violations of this policy or policies of the
Police Department to the Chief of Police in a timely manner;
      (14)   Communicate all events, criminal trends or emergency information
which might cause officers to be harmed or cause harm to the Town Police
Department and the town, to the Chief of Police regardless of where the
information was obtained;
      (15)   Will become acting Police Chief due to any incapacitation of the
Police Chief; and
      (16)   All other duties as assigned.
   (E)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge and abilities: working knowledge of accepted police
practices and procedures; ability to work with the public, ability to perform
assigned tasks without close supervision;
      (2)   Desired education and experience: degree from accredited high
school or GED equivalent and five years experience in police work or B.A. or
B.S in police science or related filed; CLETA certification; and
      (3)   Current POST certification
§ 32.06 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Employment status. Police officer is a hired position.
   (B)   General description of duties. Performs police functions as directed
by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Supervision received. Is responsible to the Patrol Sergeant, Chief of
Police and Town Manager.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. None.
   (E)   Duties. As directed by the Patrol Sargent, and the Police Chief, will
perform general law enforcement duties including:
      (1)   Patrol duty;
      (2)   Traffic control including:
         (a)   Day to day traffic control; and
         (b)   Special traffic control when requested by the Police Chief.
      (3)   Apprehension of suspected criminals;
      (4)   Acts as a liaison between the community and the town government;
      (5)   Participates in community safety programs and information sessions;
      (6)   Animal control: responsible for trapping animals which pose an
immediate threat to community safety. In such instances the police officers
will respond to the direction of the Police Chief. A police officer may act on
his or her own, however, to apprehend a dangerous animal and will act in
coordination with the Maintenance Department for transportation of the animal
to the shelter;
      (7)   Prepares reports on criminal investigations, arrests, traffic
violations, animal control and other activities;
      (8)   Other related duties as assigned; and
      (9)   Investigation of crimes.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge and abilities. Working knowledge of accepted police
practices; ability to work with the public, ability to perform assigned tasks
without close supervision;
      (2)   Desired education and experience. Degree from an accredited high
school or GED equivalent and one-year experience in police work or a B.A. or B.
S. in police science or related field; CLETA certification; and
      (3)   Certification. Current POST certification.
§ 32.07 MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Employment status. Maintenance Supervisor is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Supervises and coordinates all water,
sewer and street maintenance for the town, maintains all parks, assists the
Police Department with animal control, and all other duties as assigned by the
Town Manager.
   (C)   Supervision received. Is directly responsible to Town Manager.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. Supervises the activities of all Maintenance
Department personnel;
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   Coordinates activities related to water, sewer and street
maintenance and general maintenance of town;
      (2)   Supervises maintenance personnel and develops work schedules;
      (3)   Maintains written report on work completed and/or scheduled on
water and sewer lines and streets;
      (4)   Develops budget proposals for the Maintenance Department;
      (5)   Is sure that regular checks are made of water and sewer lines;
      (6)   Attends regular Board meeting without exception unless specifically
excused; attends special Board meetings if requested; and
      (7)   Other related duties as assigned.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge, skills and abilities: working knowledge of water and
sewer systems and the potential problems involved in maintenance, knowledge of
street maintenance practices, ability to supervise and coordinate activities of
subordinates.
      (2)   Maintains current water and sewer licenses, state CDL and all other
licenses relevant to the smooth production of services to the town;
      (3)   Ability to maintain and operate heavy equipment, i.e., backhoe,
snowplows, mowing equipment and all other equipment of the town;
      (4)   Ability to repair water and sewer lines and instruct others in how
to do so;
      (5)   Knowledge of weed and insect control and maintenance of delivery
devices;
      (6)   Ability to teach others to perform all of the above duties; and
      (7)   Desired education and experience: degree from an accredited high
school or GED equivalent plus two years experience in water, sewer and street
maintenance, preferably one year of which was in a supervisory position.
§ 32.08 MAINTENANCE PERSON.
   (A)   Employment status. Maintenance person is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Responsible for all maintenance work
assigned by department head or Town Manager.
   (C)   Responsible to. Head of Maintenance Department or Town Manager.
   (D)   General duties.
      (1)   Makes repairs on streets, water and sewer line when directed to do
so;
      (2)   Cleans streets when directed;
      (3)   Responds to emergency calls for repair of broken sewer or water
lines;
      (4)   Snow plowing;
      (5)   Capable of emergency on call on weekends;
      (6)   Insect control;
      (7)   Weed control;
      (8)   Assist Police Department with animal control;
      (9)   Ability to operate town equipment;
      (10)   Willingness to attend all classes assigned and receive
certification in areas of expertise that will help the town;
      (11)   Is responsible for reporting potential maintenance problems to the
department head; and
      (12)   All other related duties as assigned.
§ 32.09 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   Employment status. Municipal Judge is an appointed position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Presides over the Municipal Court on a
monthly basis.
   (C)   Supervision received. Accountable to Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. Shall supervise the activities of the Court
Clerk.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   Presides over sessions of the Municipal Court and renders decisions
on traffic violations and minor offenses under the jurisdiction of the
Municipal Court; and
      (2)   Provides current written reports on dispositions to the Town Board
at each regular meeting.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge, skills and abilities. A working knowledge of the
Municipal Court system; the ability to deal with the public; and
      (2)   Desired education and experience. Preferably B.A. or B.S. degree
from an accredited college and prior experience in a legal field.
§ 32.10 COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Employment status. Court Clerk is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Maintains all records for the Municipal
Court.
   (C)   Supervision received. Responsible to the Municipal Court Judge and the
Town Clerk.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. None.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   Maintains all records for the Municipal Court;
      (2)   Assembles the court docket;
      (3)   Keeps records of all court proceedings; and
      (4)   Other related duties as assigned.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Ability to use computers, file and record cases, ability to meet
the public, and the ability to respectfully deal with all court defendants;
      (2)   Ability to take payments for fines and prepare statements for the
State DMV regarding the deduction of point from driver’s licenses;
      (3)   Ability to issue summons and warrants for the court as directed by
the Judge;
      (4)   Ability to work effectively with the Municipal Judge;
      (5)   Ability to work effectively with the Town Prosecutor; and
      (6)   Desired education and experience: a degree from an accredited high
school or GED plus one year’s experience as a clerk.
§ 32.11 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Employment status. Building Inspector is a hired position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Inspects buildings and construction
projects to determine if state and municipal building code regulations have
been met.
   (C)   Supervision received. Responsible to Town Manager.
   (D)   Supervision exercised. None.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   Issues building permits and inspects buildings to determine if
state and municipal regulations are met;
      (2)   Interprets regulations and codes to builders and property owners
and assists in altering construction plans to meet established standards;
      (3)   Assists in making modifications and additions to the Municipal
Building Code;
      (4)   Attends regular Town Board meetings and special meetings if
required and reports to the Town Manager; and
      (5)   Makes regular drives around town to look for unauthorized and
unpermitted building.
   (F)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Knowledge, skills and abilities: knowledge of state and municipal
building regulation and codes; knowledge of construction techniques;
      (2)   Will attend ongoing training to keep current with changing Building
Codes and practices; and
      (3)   A degree from and accredited high school and ten years’ experience
in the construction field or four years as a Building Inspector.
§ 32.12 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Employment status. An appointed position.
   (B)   General statement of duties. Advise Town Board on all legal issues and
oversee preparation of all town ordinances and resolutions. Work directly with
the Town Manager on all legal issues of the town.
   (C)   Supervision received. Reports to the Town Board.
   (D)   Qualification. Must be a licensed attorney in the state able to
practice law in the state.
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Adoption
   
33.03   Qualifications, terms, vacancies
   
33.04   Powers
   
33.05   Meeting
   
33.06   Zoning Commission
Other Boards, Commissions, and Committees
   
33.15   Creation of advisory boards, commissions, and committees
   
33.16   Appointment and membership
   
33.17   Qualifications of members
   
33.18   Meetings
   
33.19   Quorum
   
33.20   Not applicable to Planning Commission
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The Board of Trustees of the town hereby finds, determines and declares that
it is necessary for the development and growth of the town and its future
additions, and for the purpose of promoting the general welfare, health, safety
and prosperity of its citizens, as well as effecting economy and efficiency in
governmental and administrative functions, including, among other things,
adequate control of traffic; density of population; to promote safety from fire
and other dangers; to effect wise and efficient expenditures of public funds;
to set up adequate provisions for public utilities and other municipal
services; and that an overall master plan should be provided, and a commission
should be established for the administration thereof.
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 33.02 ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. Title 31, Article 23, Part 1, there is
hereby created the Town Planning Commission to consist of seven members; there
shall be four ex officio members consisting of the Mayor, one of the
administrative officials selected by the Mayor, a member of the Board selected
by the Mayor, and a member of the Board selected by the Board; the balance of
the membership shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Board
of Trustees. All members of such Commission shall be bona fide residents of the
town, and if any member ceases to reside in the town, his or her membership on
said Commission shall immediately terminate.
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 33.03 QUALIFICATIONS, TERMS, VACANCIES.
   The members of the Town Planning Commission shall serve in such capacity
without compensation, and the appointed members shall hold no other municipal
office, except that one such appointed member may be a member of the Zoning
Board of Adjustments or Appeals. The terms of ex officio members shall
correspond to their respective official tenures, except the term of the
administrative official selected by the Mayor shall terminate with the term of
the Mayor selecting him or her. The term of each appointed member shall be six
years or until his or her successor takes office, except that the respective
term of one member first appointed shall be two years, one member shall be four
years, and one member shall be six years. Members other than the members of
representing the Board may be removed, after public hearings, by the Mayor for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. The Mayor, or the Board
of Trustees, as the case may be, shall file a written statement of reasons for
such removal. Vacancies occurring otherwise and through the expiration of term
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the Mayor in the
case of members elected or appointed by him or her, or by the Board of Trustees
in the case of members elected or appointed by the Board.
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 33.04 POWERS.
   The Town Planning Commission shall have all the powers granted and shall
perform all of the duties imposed by C.R.S. Title 31, Article 23, Part 1. The
Commission shall elect its Chairperson from among the appointed members and
create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election. The Commission
shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month. It shall adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public
record.
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 33.05 MEETING.
   The Town Planning Commission shall be organized and proceed to function at
an initial meeting, to be held not later than 30 days after the appointment of
the members of the Town Planning Commission by the Mayor
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 33.06 ZONING COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Article 23, Part 2, the Planning Commission of
the town is hereby appointed the Zoning Commission and is charged with the
responsibilities of such Zoning Commission as specified in the statutes.
(Ord. 1975-3, passed 8-12-1975)
OTHER BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES
§ 33.15 CREATION OF ADVISORY BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall be empowered to create advisory boards,
commissions, committees and similar panels (hereinafter referred to as
"committee" or "committees" in this
chapter 33) from time to time in order to further the public health, safety,
comfort and welfare of the town and its constituents by conducting research on
and evaluation of issues of public policy, and by making recommendations to the
Board of Trustees for further consideration. The term advisory means that such
panels are subordinate to the Board of Trustees, which has the ultimate legal
and financial authority to establish and articulate policy for the town, and
thus such committees are recommending bodies only.
   (B)   Committees may be temporary (ad hoc) or permanent in nature. All
permanent committees shall be created by a separate ordinance and, unless
otherwise specified in that ordinance, are governed by the provisions of this
chapter 33, §§
33.15 et seq. Temporary committees may be created by the Board of Trustees by
simple motion at any time for the consideration of any particular question or
matter of limited scope or duration. Temporary committees are governed by the
provisions of this
chapter 33, §§
33.15 et seq.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.16 APPOINTMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
   Members of committees shall be filled by appointment by the Board of
Trustees, unless otherwise provided by ordinance. Each temporary (ad hoc)
committee shall consist of up to two members of the Board of Trustees and such
other members as the Board of Trustees deems appropriate. All regular members
shall have equal voting privileges on all questions. The members of all
committees shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.17 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   All members of a committee are required to be a bona fide resident and
qualified elector of the town; an employee of the town; an owner of real
property in the town; or an owner of a business in the town.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.18 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Committees shall have regular meeting schedules. Committees shall meet
not less than once monthly unless a meeting is cancelled. Meetings may be
cancelled or rescheduled due to lack of a quorum or lack of adequate business
to discuss, with notice of such cancellation or rescheduling posted as would be
done for regular meetings.
   (B)   The minutes of each meeting of all committees, whether permanent or
temporary, shall be made and kept. Such minutes shall be a record of the
proceedings. In addition to the minutes, all agendas, reports, and other papers
and transactions of all committees shall be filed with the Town Clerk and
retained in accordance with town procedures as well as state law on retention
of public records. Copies of minutes shall be provided to the Board of
Trustees, as well as other reports and documents as appropriate from time to
time.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.19 QUORUM.
   The presence of three members shall be necessary for a quorum. The roll
shall be taken at the beginning of each meeting. If a quorum is not available,
a smaller number of members may convene and have discussion, but no formal
action can occur nor can a vote to make a recommendation be made, except that a
new meeting date, time and place may be set.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 33.20 NOT APPLICABLE TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The provisions of
chapter 33, from §§
33.15 to
33.19, do not apply to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
predated these general provisions and is governed by §§
33.01 to
33.06.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 3-17-2021)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Write-in candidate affidavit
   
34.02   Election may be cancelled; when
Eligibility Requirements
   
34.15   Definitions
   
34.16   Eligibility of employees or close relatives of an employee to hold
municipal office
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 WRITE-IN CANDIDATE AFFIDAVIT.
   No write-in vote for any municipal office shall be counted unless an
affidavit of intent has been filed with the Town Clerk by the person whose name
is written in prior to 20 days before the day of the election indicating that
such person desires the office and is qualified to assume the duties of that
office if elected.
(Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-10-1982; Ord. 1992-1, passed 3-12-1992)
§ 34.02 ELECTION MAY BE CANCELLED; WHEN.
   If the only matter before the voters is the election of persons to office
and if, at the close of business on the nineteenth day before the election,
there are not more candidates than offices to be filled at such election,
including candidates filing affidavits of intent, the Town Clerk, if instructed
by resolution of the Board of Trustees of the town either before or after such
date, shall cancel the election and by resolution declare the candidates
elected. Upon such declaration, the candidates shall be deemed elected. Notice
of such cancellation shall be published, if possible, in order to inform the
electors of the town, and notice of such cancellation shall be posted at each
polling place and in not less than one other public place.
(Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-10-1982; Ord. 1992-1, passed 3-12-1992)
ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
§ 34.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSE RELATIVE. Any person who is a husband, wife, parent, child, brother or
sister, brother- in-law or sister-in-law, uncle or aunt, uncle-in-law or aunt-
in law, nephew or niece, or nephew-in-law or niece-in-law of a person presently
employed or to be employed by the town.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who works for the town in any position or department,
whether full-time or part-time, in return for compensation.
   MUNICIPAL OFFICE. The office of Mayor of the town or a member of the Board
of Trustees of the town.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 34.16 ELIGIBILITY OF EMPLOYEES OR CLOSE RELATIVES OF AN EMPLOYEE TO HOLD
MUNICIPAL OFFICE.
   (A)   No person who is an employee of the town, or who after being duly
elected or appointed as Mayor or a member of the Board of Trustees of the town
becomes an employee shall be eligible to hold or retain a municipal office
during that person’s period of employment or for a period of one year after the
termination of such employment, whether by retirement, removal as provided by
law or resignation.
   (B)   No person who is a close relative of an employee of the town shall be
eligible to hold or retain a municipal office during the employee’s period of
employment or for a period of one year after the termination of such person’s
employment, whether by retirement, removal as provided by law or resignation.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-12-2004)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Prohibiting Smoking in all Town-Owned Buildings
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Where smoking is prohibited
 
   
35.99   Penalty
PROHIBITING SMOKING IN ALL TOWN-OWNED BUILDINGS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tractor, backhoe, grader or any other similar type of
maintenance equipment, owned or leased by the town the cab of which occupied by
the operator thereof is an enclosed area, irrespective that windows thereof may
be opened.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, police cruiser, maintenance vehicle,
firefighting equipment or vehicle, or snow plow owned by or leased by the town,
the cab of which occupied by the operator thereof is an enclosed area,
irrespective that windows thereof may be opened.
   SMOKING. The carrying of a lighted pipe, lighted cigar or lighted cigarette
of any kind and includes the lighting of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any
kind.
   TOWN-OWNED BUILDING. Any and all buildings and any enclosed, indoor area
owned by or leased by the Town of La Jara.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 5-12-1994)
§ 35.02 WHERE SMOKING IS PROHIBITED.
   Smoking is prohibited in all town buildings, town motor vehicles and town
equipment.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 5-12-1994) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted in the Municipal Court of the town of a violation of
any term, provision or section of this chapter may be fined in an amount not to
exceed $300.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 5-12-1994)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Emergency Management Council
   
36.04   Duty of Emergency Management Council
   
36.05   Director of Emergency Management
   
36.06   Disasters; empowerment
   
36.07   Duty of town officers and employees
   
36.08   Functions and duties
   
36.09   Liability
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   The declared purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and
carrying out of plans, including mock or practice drills, for the emergency
management of persons and property within this town in the event of a disaster,
and to provide for the coordination of the emergency management and disaster
functions of this town with all other public agencies and affected private
persons, corporations and organizations. Any expenditures made in connection
with such emergency management and disaster activities, including mutual aid
activities, and mock or practice drills, shall be deemed conclusively to be for
the direct protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the town.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters. It shall not include, nor does any provision of this
chapter apply to any condition relating to a labor controversy.
   DISASTER. Actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire,
flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake or other similar public calamity.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL.
   The Town Emergency Management Council is hereby created and shall consist of
the following;
   (A)   The Mayor, who shall be Chairperson;
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management, who shall be Vice Chairperson;
   (C)   Such deputy directors and chiefs of operating emergency management and
disaster departments, services or divisions as are provided for by resolution
pursuant to this chapter; and
   (D)   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official group or organizations emergency
management as may be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Town Council.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.04 DUTY OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COUNCIL.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Emergency Management Council, and it is
hereby empowered, to review and recommend for adoption by the Town Council,
emergency management and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances
and resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such
plans and agreements. The Emergency Management Council shall meet upon call of
the Chairperson, or in his or her absence from the town or inability to call
such meeting, upon the call of the Vice Chairperson.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.05 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Director of Emergency
Management. Such officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Director is hereby empowered:
      (1)   To control and direct the effort of the emergency management
organization of this town for the accomplishment of the purposes of this
chapter;
      (2)   To direct coordination and cooperation between divisions, services
and staff of the emergency management organization of this town, and to resolve
questions of authority and responsibility that may arise between them; and
      (3)   To represent the emergency management organization of this town in
all dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to emergency management
and disaster.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.06 DISASTERS; EMPOWERMENT.
   In the event of disaster as herein provided, the Director is hereby
empowered:
   (A)   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related
to the protection of life and property as affected by such disaster; provided,
however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the Town Council;
   (B)   To obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of the life and property of the people,
and bind the town for the fair value thereof, and if required immediately, to
commandeer the same for public use;
   (C)   To require emergency services of any town officer or employee, to
command the aid of as many citizens of this community as he or she thinks
necessary in the execution of his or her duties; such persons shall be entitled
to all privileges, benefits and immunities as are provided by state law for
registered emergency management worker volunteers; and
   (D)   To requisition necessary personnel or material of any town department
or agency.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.07 DUTY OF TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All officers and employees of this town, together with those volunteer
forces enrolled to aid them during a disaster, and all groups, organizations
and persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons pressed
into service under the provisions of §
36.06(C), be charged with duties incident to the protection of life and
property in this town during such disaster, shall constitute the emergency
management organization of the town.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.08 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The functions and duties of the town emergency management organization
shall be distributed among such divisions, services and special staff as the
Town Council shall prescribe by resolutions.
   (B)   The Town Council shall concurrently with the adoption of this chapter,
adopt a resolution setting forth the form of organization, establishment and
designation of divisions and services, the assignment of functions, duties and
powers, the designation of officers and employees. Insofar as possible, the
form of organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the
recommendations of the federal government and the civil defense, an agency, of
the state.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.09 LIABILITY.
   No individual firm, association, corporation or other party, owning,
maintaining or controlling any building or premises who voluntarily and without
compensation grants to the town a license or privilege or otherwise permits
said town to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such
building or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual
impending, mock or practice attack, or their successors in interest, or the
agents or employees of any of them, shall be subject to liability for injuries
sustained by any person while in or upon said building or premises as a result
of the condition of said building or premises or as a result of any act or
omission in connection with the upkeep or maintenance thereof, (except a
willful act of misconduct) when such person has entered or gone into or upon
said building or premises for the purpose of seeking refuge therein during
destructive operations or attacks by enemies of the United States or during a
mock or practice attack or test ordered by lawful authority.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed $250 for
any person during a disaster to:
   (A)   Willfully to obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
management organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation
issued pursuant to this chapter, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon
him or her by virtue of this chapter;
   (B)   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued
pursuant to this chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to give, or be
likely to give assistance to the enemy, or to imperil the lives or property of
inhabitants of this town, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or
protection thereof; and
   (C)    To wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the State Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 118, passed 6-10-1958; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 37: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Business and Occupation Tax
   
37.01   Levy of tax
   
37.02   Effective date
   
37.03   Filing statement
   
37.04   Failure to pay
   
37.05   Inspection of records
   
37.06   Local purpose
   
37.07   Taxes in lieu of other taxes and the like
   
37.08   Non-waiver
Sales Tax
   
37.20   Purpose
   
37.21   Definitions
   
37.22   Reserved
   
37.23   Property and services taxed
   
37.24   Exemptions
   
37.25   Amount of tax
   
37.26   General provisions
   
37.27   Collection, administration and enforcement
   
37.28   Revenues derived; disposition
Use Tax
   
37.40   Purpose
   
37.41   Limitations
   
37.42   Motor and other vehicle use tax collection
   
37.43   Construction and building materials use tax collection
Tax Incentives for Start-Up Retail Business Establishments
   
37.55   Definitions
   
37.56   Collection of sales tax
   
37.57   Tax abatements
 
   
37.99   Penalty
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.01 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   It is hereby levied on and against each telephone utility company
operating within the town a tax on the occupation and business of maintaining a
telephone exchange and lines connected therewith in the town and of supplying
local exchange telephone service to the inhabitants of the town.
   (B)   The annual amount of tax levied hereby shall be equal to $3.50 per
telephone account for which local exchange telephone service is provided within
the corporate limits of the town on the effective date as provided in §
37.02 and upon each anniversary of the effective date.
(Ord. 1976-1A, passed 12-29-1976; Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax levied by this subchapter shall commence on January 1, 1977, and
shall be due and payable in 12 equal monthly installments with the first such
installment due 30 days after the effective date.
(Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.03 FILING STATEMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date as provided in §
37.02, each telephone utility company subject to this subchapter shall file
with the Town Clerk, in such form as the Clerk may require, a statement showing
the total telephone accounts for which local exchange telephone service was
provided within the corporate limits of the town on the effective date.
   (B)   Such statement shall be filed within 30 days after each anniversary of
the effective date showing such accounts on the anniversary date.
(Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If any telephone utility company subject to the provisions of this
subchapter shall fail to pay the taxes as herein provided, the full amount
thereof shall be due and collected from such company, and the same together
with an addition of 10% of the amount of taxes due shall be and hereby is
declared to be a debt due and owing from such company to the town.
   (B)   The Town Attorney, upon direction of the Board of Trustees, shall
commence and prosecute to final judgment and determination in any court of
competent jurisdiction an action at law to collect the said debt in the name of
the people of the state.
(Ord. 1976-1A, passed 12-29-1976; Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.05 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   The town, its officers, agents or representatives shall have the right at
all reasonable hours and times to examine the books and records of the
telephone utility companies which are subject to the provisions of this
subchapter and to make copies of the entries or contents thereof.
(Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.06 LOCAL PURPOSE.
   The tax herein provided is upon occupations and businesses in the
performance of local functions and is not a tax upon those functions relating
to interstate commerce. It is expressly understood that none of the terms of
this subchapter be construed to mean that any telephone utility company is
issued a franchise by the town.
(Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.07 TAXES IN LIEU OF OTHER TAXES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The tax herein provided shall be in lieu of all other payments by or
fees and taxes on any telephone utility subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, other than ad valorem taxes, and in addition, shall be in lieu of
any free services furnished the town by any said telephone utility.
   (B)   A business upon which an occupation tax is imposed by virtue of this
subchapter shall not be required to pay any other occupational tax imposed by
any other ordinance heretofore adopted or which may be hereinafter adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the town.
(Ord. 1976-1A, passed 12-29-1976; Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
§ 37.08 NON-WAIVER.
   It is understood that the town does not hereby waive its right to amend this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1976-1A, passed 12-29-1976; Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
SALES TAX
§ 37.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a sales tax upon the sale at
retail of tangible personal property and the furnishing of certain services in
the town, pursuant to the authority granted to incorporated towns of the state
by C.R.S. Title 29, Article 2, as amended. This subchapter shall be so
construed and interpreted as to effectuate the general purpose of making it
uniform with the sales tax of the state, levied by C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26,
as amended.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the definition of words herein contained
shall be as said words redefined in C.R.S. § 39-26-102, as amended, and said
definitions are incorporated herein.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.22 RESERVED.
§ 37.23 PROPERTY AND SERVICES TAXED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid a sales
tax in the amount as in this subchapter provided, upon the sale at retail of
tangible personal property and furnishing of certain services, as provided in
C.R.S. § 39-26-104, as amended.
   (B)   The amount subject to tax shall not include the amount of any sales or
use tax imposed by C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26, as amended.
   (C)   The gross receipts from sales shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax imposed by C.R.S. Title 39,
Article 26, as amended, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
   (D)   No sales tax shall apply to the sale of construction and building
materials, as the term is used in C.R.S. § 29-2-109, as amended, if such
materials are picked up by the purchaser and if the purchaser of such materials
presents to the retailer a building permit or other documentation acceptable to
such local government evidencing that a local use tax has been paid or is
required to be paid.
   (E)   No sales or use tax shall apply to the sale of food purchased with
food stamps. For the purposes of this division (E), FOOD shall have the same
meaning as provided in 7 U.S.C. § 2012(g), as such section exits on October 1,
1987, or is thereafter amended.
   (F)   No sale or use tax shall apply to the sale of food purchased with
funds provided by the special supplemental food program for women, infants and
children, 42 U.S.C. § 1786. For the purposes of this division (F), FOOD shall
have the same meaning as provided in 42 U.S.C. § 1786, as such section exists
on October 1, 1987, or is thereafter amended.
   (G)   No sales tax shall apply to the sale of tangible personal property at
retail or the furnishing of services if the transaction was previously
subjected to a sales or use tax lawfully imposed on the purchaser or user by
another statutory or home rule city and county, city or town equal to or in
excess of that sought to be imposed by the town. A credit with respect to such
transaction equal in amount to the lawfully imposed local sales or use tax
previously paid by the purchaser or user to the previous statutory or home rule
city and county, city or town. The amount of the credit shall not exceed the
sales tax imposed by the town.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the value of
construction and building materials on which a use tax has previously been
collected by an incorporated town, city or county shall be exempt from the
town, city or county sales tax if the materials are delivered by the retailer
or his or her agent to a site within the limits of such town, city or county.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.24 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be exempt from taxation under the provisions of this
subchapter, all of the tangible personal property and services which are exempt
under the provisions set forth in C.R.S. Title 39, Article 26, as amended,
which exemptions are incorporated herein by this reference, except the
exemption allowed by C.R.S. § 39-26-709, as amended, for the purchases of
machinery or machine tools, and except the exemption of sales and purchases of
electricity, coals, gas, fuel oil and coke as provided in C.R.S. § 39-26-707,
as amended, and except the exemption for sales of food specified in C.R.S. §§
39-26-715 and 39-26-724, as amended.
   (B)   All sales of tangible personal property on which a specific ownership
tax has been paid or is payable shall be exempt from sales tax when such sales
meet both of the following conditions:
      (1)   The purchaser is a nonresident of, or has its principal place of
business outside of the town; and
      (2)   Such tangible personal property is registered or required to be
registered outside the limits of the town under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.25 AMOUNT OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed upon all sales of tangible personal property and the
furnishing of certain services, as specified in §
37.23, a 3% sales tax upon the sale at retail of tangible personal property and
the furnishing of certain services as provided herein.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.26 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, all retail sales are consummated,
at the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to a destination outside
the limits of the town or to a common carrier for delivery to a destination
outside the limits of the town.
   (B)   In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
town, or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated for the purpose of the sales tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be determined by the provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Article
26, as amended, and by rules and regulations promulgated by the Department of
Revenue of the state.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.27 COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The collection, administration and enforcement of the sales tax
imposed by this subchapter shall be performed by the Executive Director of the
Department of Revenue of the state in the same manner as the collection,
administration and enforcement of the state sales tax. Accordingly, the
provisions of C.R.S. Title 39, Articles 26 and 21 and C.R.S. Title 29, Article
2, as amended, and all rules and regulations promulgated by the Executive
Director of the Department of Revenue pertaining to such collection,
administration and enforcement are incorporated herein by this reference.
   (B)   At the time of making his or her return of the tax, as required by
this subchapter, every retailer shall be entitled to subtract from the tax so
remitted a sum equal to 3.334% of said tax as his or her fee, said fee to be
known as the vendor’s fee.
   (C)   If said retailer shall be delinquent in remitting said tax, he or she
shall forfeit the vendor’s fee unless good cause can be shown for such
delinquent remittance.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.28 REVENUES DERIVED; DISPOSITION.
   The disposition of sales and use tax revenues generated by the terms and
provisions of this subchapter shall be used within the various budgets of the
town, and the town shall be authorized to collect and spend all such revenues
from such sales and use tax and any investment earnings thereon without regard
to any spending, revenue-raising or other limitations contained within the
Colorado Constitution Article X, § 20, such amounts to constitute voter-
approved revenue and spending changes.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
USE TAX
§ 37.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a use tax of 3% thereof, for the
privilege of using, or consuming in the town any construction and building
materials, purchased at retail, and for storing, using or consuming in the town
any motor and other vehicles on which registration is required, purchased at
retail.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.41 LIMITATIONS.
   In no event shall the use tax imposed by this subchapter extend or apply to:
   (A)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property, the
sale of which is subject to a retail sales tax imposed by the town;
   (B)   The storage, use or consumption of any tangible personal property
purchased for resale in the town either in its original form or as an
ingredient of a manufactured or compounded product, in the regular course of a
business;
   (C)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property brought
into the town by a nonresident thereof for his or her own storage, use or
consumption while temporarily within the town; however, this exemption does not
apply to the storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property brought
into this state by a nonresident to be used in the conduct of a business in
this state;
   (D)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by the
United States government or the state, or its institutions or political
subdivisions, in their governmental capacities only, or by religious or
charitable organizations in the conduct of their regular religious or
charitable functions;
   (E)   The storage, use or consumption of tangible personal property by a
person engaged in the business of manufacturing or compounding for sale, profit
or use any article, substance or commodity, which tangible personal property
enters into the processing of or becomes an ingredient or component part of the
product or service which is manufactured, compounded or furnished and the
container, label or the furnished shipping case thereof;
   (F)   The storage, use or consumption of any article of tangible personal
property the sale or use of which has already been subjected to a legally
imposed sales or use tax of another statutory or home rule town, city or city
and county equal to or in excess of that imposed by this subchapter. A credit
shall be granted against the use tax imposed by this subchapter with respect to
person’s storage, use or consumption in the town or city of other tangible
personal property purchased by him or her in a previous statutory or home rule
town, city or city and county. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the
tax paid by him or her by reason of the imposition of a sales or use tax of the
previous statutory or home rule town, city, or city and county on his or her
purchase or use of the property. The amount of the credit shall not exceed the
tax imposed by this subchapter;
   (G)   The storage, use, or consumption of tangible personal property and
household effects acquired outside of the town and brought into it by a
nonresident acquiring residency;
   (H)   The storage or use of a motor vehicle if the owner is or was, at the
time of purchase, a nonresident of the town and he or she purchased the vehicle
outside of the town for use outside the town and actually so used it for a
substantial and primary purpose for which it was acquired and he or she
registered, titled and licensed said motor vehicle outside of the town;
   (I)   The storage, use or consumption of any construction and building
materials and motor and other vehicles on which registration is required if a
written contract for the purchase thereof was entered into prior to the
effective date of such use tax; and
   (J)   To the storage, use of consumption of any construction and building
materials required or made necessary in the performance of any construction
contract bid, let or entered into at any time prior to the effective date of
this use tax subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.42 MOTOR AND OTHER VEHICLE USE TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   The 3% use tax provided for herein shall be applicable to every motor
vehicle for which registration is required by the laws of the state and no
registration shall be made of any motor or other vehicle or which registration
is required, and no certificate of title shall be issued for such vehicle by
the Department of Revenue or its authorized agents until any tax due upon the
use, storage or consumption thereof pursuant to this subchapter has been paid.
   (B)   The use tax imposed by this subchapter shall be collected by the
authorized agent of the Department of Revenue in this county.
   (C)   The proceeds of said use tax shall be paid to the town periodically in
accordance with an agreement entered into by and between the town and the
Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 37.43 CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS USE TAX COLLECTION.
   (A)   The collection of the use tax for construction and building materials
shall be administered by the Board of Trustees of the town.
   (B)   The collection and administration of the use tax imposed by this
subchapter shall be performed by the Board of Trustees of the town, in
substantially the same manner as the collection, administration and enforcement
of the state sales and use tax.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 11-9-2000; Ord. 2000-5, passed 11-9-2000)
TAX INCENTIVES FOR START-UP RETAIL BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 37.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FULL CALENDAR YEAR. The period of time from January 1 of any year to the
last day of December of the same year, both dates inclusive.
   NEW BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT OR ENTERPRISE. Any new, start-up commercial
retail business establishment or enterprise to be located within the
incorporated limits of the town that has not theretofore ever maintained a
commercial retail sales establishment or enterprise within the incorporated
limits of the town. Successors in interest to an established commercial retail
business that has existed within the incorporated limits of the town before the
adoption of this subchapter shall not be deemed to be a NEW BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENT OR ENTERPRISE as contemplated by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 37.56 COLLECTION OF SALES TAX.
   Upon the issunce of a retail sales tax license by the State Department of
Revenue, any new, start-up commercial retail business or enterprise located
within the incorporated limits of the town shall collect the full amount of
retail sales tax levied by the state and the town at their then respective
rates.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 37.57 TAX ABATEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may hereafter, by resolution, duly adopted at a
regular or special meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present, after due
and proper notice as required by law, at its sole and absolute discretion, but
being under no obligation to do so, either expressed or implied, grant sales
tax incentives to any proposed new, start-up retail commercial business
establishment or enterprise expected to have not less than $50,000 in gross
retail sales revenue in the first 12 month of of its existence, such tax
incentive to be by way of a refund back to the owner or owners of such new
retail business establishment or enterprise of all or any part of the town’s
allocable share of sales tax collected by and attributed to said new retail
business establishment or enterprise on a sliding scale to be determined on a
case-by-case basis as the Board of Trustees may, by such resolution find
necessary and advisable,
   (B)   For purposes of clarification, the term SLIDING SCALE shall mean that
for the first calender year, or any portion thereof, the Town Board may refund
to the new, start-up retail business owner or owners all or any part of the
town’s allocable share of sales tax revenue remitted by the State Department of
Revenue to the town attributed to said new retail business. For the next
subsequent full year or years, the town may withhold so much of its allocable
share of sales tax revenue collected by the new business owner or owners and
remitted to the town by the State Department of Revenue as the Board of
Trustees by resolution then duly adopted determines, refunding the balance
thereof to the owner or owners of the new business establishment or enterprise,
   (C)   After the expiration of a period not to exceed 36 months after the
establishment of said new, start-up retail business establishment or
enterprise, the town shall retain all of its allocable share of sales tax
revenues collected by said new business establishment and remitted to the town
by the State Department of Revenue with nothing to be refunded back to the
owner or owners of said new business establishment or enterprise.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 9-9-2004)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any officer, agent, or manager of a telephone utility company which
is subject to the provisions of §§
37.01 through
37.08 shall fail, neglect or refuse to make or file the annual statement of
accounts provided in §
37.03, the said officer, agent, manager or person shall, on conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine not less than $25 nor more than $300; provided, that each
day after said statement shall become delinquent during the said officer,
agent, manager or person shall so fail, neglect or refuse to make and file such
statement shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1976-4, passed 12-29-1976)
CHAPTER 38: PROCUREMENT
Section
   
38.01   Application
   
38.02   Definition of procurement
   
38.03   Authority to purchase
   
38.04   Small purchases
   
38.05   Other purchases
   
38.06   Emergency purchases
   
38.07   No circumvention
§ 38.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the procurement of materials, supplies, services
and construction entered into by the town. When the procurement involves the
expenditure of federal funds, the procurement shall be conducted in accordance
with any mandatory applicable federal law and regulations. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the town from complying with the terms and conditions of
any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law. This chapter
does not create or confer any right or entitlement upon any person to bid on or
receive an award of any town contract.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.02 DEFINITION OF PROCUREMENT.
   Procurement shall mean the purchasing, renting, leasing or other acquisition
of any materials, supplies, services or construction. It shall also include all
functions that pertain to obtaining any material, service or construction,
including the description requirement, the selection and solicitation of
sources and the preparation and award of a contract.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.03 AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE.
   The Town Manager is hereby designated as the Purchasing Officer responsible
to make procurements, solicit bids and proposals, administer contracts and make
written determinations and recommendations for each of their departments.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.04 SMALL PURCHASES.
   Any procurement not exceeding $1,000.00 may be made in accordance with the
procedures set forth below.
   (A)   Procurements up to $1,000.00 may be approved by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Whenever practical or advantageous, a reasonable number of vendors
shall be solicited for quotations. Quotations may be oral or written, and the
award shall be made to the vendor providing the lowest responsive and
responsible quotation.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall document such purchases and report them to the
Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting at the latest. The Town Manager
may, but is not required to, report procurements at any special meeting. If a
procurement is reported at a special meeting, it need not be reported at the
next regular meeting.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.05 OTHER PURCHASES.
   Any procurement not exceeding $1,000 may be made in accordance with the
procedures set forth below.
   (A)   Procurements greater than $1,000 must be approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   A reasonable number of vendors (ordinarily a least three) shall be
solicited for quotations. Quotations may be oral or written, and the award
shall be made to the vendor providing the lowest responsive and responsible
quotation. The name of the vendors and the dated and amount of each quotation
shall be recorded, and such record shall be maintained for one year from the
date of the purchase.
   (C)   When the Purchasing Officer determines that the use of formal bidding
is advantageous to the town, procurements may be entered by use of competitive
sealed proposal method.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.06 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency which requires immediate purchase of
materials, professional services or construction, the Town Manager is empowered
to procure such emergency needs by informal, open-market procedure as
expeditiously as possible, at the lowest obtainable price. A written
determination of the basis for the emergency and for the selection of the
particular contractor shall be made by the Town Manager. The written
determination shall be presented to Board of Trustees at the next open meeting.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
§ 38.07 NO CIRCUMVENTION.
   Procurements shall not be artificially divided so as to constitute a small
purchase under this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-17-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
53.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
54.   WATER ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Tenant’s Non-Payment of Water and/or Sewer Charges
   
50.01   Fee owner ultimately responsible; fees; charges
   
50.02   Non-payment; lien
TENANT’S NON-PAYMENT OF WATER AND/OR SEWER CHARGES
§ 50.01 FEE OWNER ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE; FEES; CHARGES.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-35-402(1)(f) et seq., the town may collect, in
advance or otherwise, from any owner of any real property connected to the
town’s water and/or sewer facilities or receiving services therefrom, rates,
fees, tolls and charges, or any combination thereof, for the services furnished
by, or the direct or indirect connection with, or the use of, or any commodity
from such water and/or sewage facility, or both, including, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, minimum charges for the availability of
service, tap fees, disconnection fees and reasonable penalties for any
delinquencies, including, but not necessarily limited to, interest on
delinquencies from any due date at a rate not exceeding 1% per month or
fraction thereof, reasonable attorney fees and other costs of collection
whenever any rate, fees, tolls and charges, or any combination thereof, remain
unpaid by such owner’s tenant who occupied or who occupies said premises and
who neglects, fails and refuses and continues to neglect, fail and refuse to
pay the same after such rates, fees, tolls, charges or any combination thereof
have become due and payable and have been properly and lawfully assessed.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 3-9-1989)
§ 50.02 NON-PAYMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   Pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-35-617 and with respect to the town’s sewage
system, in the event any tenant of an owner neglects, fails or refuses to pay
when due, after assessment of the same by the town of any rates and charges as
fixed by the ordinances of the town and thereafter the owner, after
notification of such tenant’s neglect, failure and refusal to pay the same,
likewise neglects, fails and refuses to pay when due and after assessment the
rates and charges fixed by the Board of Trustees of the town for the connection
with and use of said sewer, the user thereof shall not be disconnected from
said sewage system or refused the use of said sewer unless the user thereof is
outside the municipal limits, but the rates and charges due therefor may be
certified by the Clerk of the town to the Board of County Commissioners in
which said delinquent owner’s property is located on or before November 1 of
each year and thereupon and until paid shall be a lien upon the real property
so served by said sewage connection. The lien shall be levied, certified,
received or collected by sale, annually from year to year by the proper county
officials, as are county taxes, and the proceeds thereof shall be remitted each
month to the town.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by law, and with respect to the town’s water
supply system, in the event any tenant of an owner neglects, fails or refuses
to pay when due, after assessment of the same by the town of any rates and
charges as fixed by the ordinances of the town and thereafter the owner, after
notification of such tenant’s neglect, failure and refusal to pay the same,
likewise neglects, fails and refuses to pay when due and after assessment the
rates and charges fixed by the Board of Trustees of the town for the connection
with and use of said water, the user thereof may be, at the option of the town,
disconnected from said water system and refused the use of said water and, in
addition, the rates and charges due therefor may be certified by the Clerk of
the town to the Board of County Commissioners in which said delinquent owner’s
property is located on or before November 1 of each year and thereupon and
until paid shall be a lien upon the real property so served by said water
connection. The lien shall be levied, certified, received or collected by sale,
annually from year to year by the proper county officials, as are county taxes,
and the proceeds thereof shall be remitted each month to the town.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 3-9-1989)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
Water System
   
51.015   Name of system
   
51.016   Water system property; injury; tampering; trespass
   
51.017   Fire hydrants
   
51.018   Permit to tap; application; information required
   
51.019   Permit to tap; signing; records; copies
   
51.020   Taps; where permitted
   
51.021   Size; orifice; equipment belongs to town
   
51.022   By whom made; expenses; service pipe requirements
   
51.023   Unauthorized act
   
51.024   Testing connections; payment of charges and fines
   
51.025   Maintenance and repair of fixtures
   
51.026   Permit to install fixtures and to turn on water
   
51.027   Turning water on; license; required
   
51.028   Failure to have
   
51.029   Repairs to system; turning off water
   
51.030   Tap fees for connections
   
51.031   Water rates; responsibility in multiple-tenant property
   
51.032   Water use during fires; prohibited for private purposes
   
51.033   Wasting water
   
51.034   Water use outside town
   
51.035   Lien for unpaid charges
Sewer System
   
51.050   Connection with system; required within the exterior boundaries of the
town
   
51.051   Privies and water closets prohibited
   
51.052   Penalty for failure to connect
   
51.053   By whom made
   
51.054   Laying line therefor; requirements
   
51.055   Penalty for violation
   
51.056   Sand traps for wash racks; grease traps for commercial establishments;
required
   
51.057   Inspecting; cleaning
   
51.058   Violations of §§
51.056 and
51.057
   
51.059   Sewer connection charges within town and annexed area
   
51.060   Permit; billing; collection
   
51.061   Delinquency
   
51.062   Sewer use charges outside town; schedule
   
51.063   Payment, collection; outside town
   
51.064   Depositing receipts
Rates for Sewer and Water
   
51.075   Water and sewer charges; manner of determining; amending rates
   
51.076   Use calculation and partial use
   
51.077   Businesses and residential combined rate
   
51.078   Excessive use charge
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Town of La Jara duly elected
or appointed as the governing body of the town and its respective successors in
office.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Volunteer Fire Department of the Town of La Jara and
also the Volunteer Fire Department of the Northwest Conejos Fire Protection
District.
   GREASE TRAP. A device in which the grease content of sewage is intercepted
and congealed, and from which grease may be skimmed or otherwise removed for
proper disposal.
   MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR. The town employee who is primarily responsible for
the maintenance and repair of the physical assets of the town, whether located
within or without the town’s incorporated limits, such to include, but not
limited to, the water and sewer operations and any property or appliances
constituting or being a part of such water and sewer system, buildings, storage
facilities incidental to said water and sewer systems. The term shall also
include any employee of the town under the direct control and supervision of
the primary MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
   PERSON. In addition to a natural person, shall include, when the context
requires, legal entities such as, but not limited to, corporations, limited
liability companies and other fictitious legal entities.
   SAND TRAP or MUD TRAP. A device in which the sand and/or mud content of
sewage is intercepted, allowed to settle therein, and from which sand and/or
mud may be removed for proper disposal.
   TOWN CLERK. The Clerk, and if applicable, the Assistant Clerk or their
respective successors appointed by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
   TOWN SEWER SYSTEM. The waste water collection system constructed by the town
and all of its incidental facilities as may be modified, replaced or expanded
from time to time.
   TOWN WATER SYSTEM. The water works constructed by the town and used to
supply the town and its inhabitants and commercial business establishments with
water from its municipal wells and all of its incidental facilities as may be
modified, replaced or expanded from time to time.
   WASHRACK. Any facility, structure or device that is plumbed to the town’s
sanitary sewer system, the purpose of which is to collect vehicle wash water or
wash water the source of which is from any commercial activity, such as, but
not limited to, the washing of vegetables in sorting and packing operations.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.015 NAME OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water works constructed and maintained by the town and used to
supply the town and its inhabitants with water, shall be known as the town’s
water system.
   (B)   Such water system and all things pertaining thereto shall be under the
control of the Board of Trustees, who shall direct the maintenance and
operation thereof, and the construction of all additions thereto, and in all
cases not particularly provided for by ordinance, shall determine in what
manner and upon what terms water may be taken from the water system by any
water consumer and the character of the connections and appliances which may be
made or used therewith.
   (C)   Every owner of any inhabited building, whether residential,
educational, recreational or commercial, regularly used or to be used by human
inhabitants situated within the incorporated limits of the town and which is
dependent on a supply of potable water must have as its source of water only
that water derived from the town’s water supply system and no other source.
   (D)   The owner of any property, whether such property is used for personal,
recreational, residential or business purposes shall be solely responsible at
all times for all expenses incurred in either the installation, repair or
maintenance of the water line from the building or structure located on such
person’s property to the point of connection with the town’s water meter. Any
repairs or maintenance from the point of connection with the town’s water meter
and points downstream therefrom shall be the sole and separate responsibility
of the town. In no event and under no circumstances shall the town be deemed,
expressly or by implication, to be solely responsible for such repairs,
installation or maintenance work on such property owner’s property
   (E)   Notwithstanding the terms and provisions of division (D) above,
nothing contained herein shall be construed to impose upon the town any
responsibility, expressed or implied, with respect to any area outside of the
incorporated limits of the town, the intent being that, with respect to any
unincorporated area that is presently served or may be served by the town’s
municipal water supply system in the future, such to include, but not limited
to, all that area lying east of Main Street South and lying south of the town’s
23 acres, the town’s responsibility with respect the furnishing of water to
such unincorporated area shall be limited to the repair and maintenance of the
town’s water meter, and no other. All other charges, including, but not limited
to, installation of water and water lines and water meter shall be the sole and
exclusive responsibility of the property owner.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any provision of divisions (C) and (D)
above shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as hereinafter set forth in §
51.999. Each day during which such owner or occupant shall fail to comply with
any provision of divisions (C) and (D) above shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 2017-2, passed 6-8-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 WATER SYSTEM PROPERTY; INJURY; TAMPERING; TRESPASS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or in anywise damage any
property or appliances constituting or being a part of such water system, or
any fences, guards, rails, boxes, covers, buildings or storage facilities
constructed and used to protect the water system or any part thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the Maintenance
Supervisor, or any employee of the town under his or her supervision or any
other person authorized by the Board of Trustees to operate the water system,
to trespass upon the water system or the grounds upon which the same are
constructed, to tap or make connection therewith or in any manner to interfere
with the water system or the property or the appliances constituting the water
system or any part thereof, or to meddle or interfere with any pipe, valve or
appliances used in regulating the flow of water in the water system, or any
part thereof, or to change or alter the position of any valve or appliance
regulating the flow of water in any pipe line of the water system.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or tamper with or
attempt to alter or change the flow of any well or wells which are a part of
the water system or in any way connected therewith.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, dump or deposit in
any pipe, reservoir, well, filter or any part whatsoever of the water system,
any substance or material which will in any manner injure or obstruct the same
or any material or substance which will contaminate or pollute or which would
tend to contaminate or pollute the water in the water system or in any pipe,
reservoir, filter, sedimentation basin, well or any appliance forming a part of
the water system, or in any manner to obstruct the water system or pollute the
water therein.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All fire hydrants shall be under the control and shall be kept in
repair by the Maintenance Supervisor and shall be tested at least semi-annually
to see if the same are in working order. In case of fire, the members of the
Fire Department, and such other persons as the Maintenance Supervisor shall
authorize, shall have free access to the fire hydrant. No other person shall
open or operate any fire hydrant. It shall be unlawful for any other person to
open or operate any fire hydrant without permission of the Maintenance
Supervisor, or draw water therefrom, or destroy the approach thereto.
   (B)   Wrenches for fire hydrants shall be furnished by the Maintenance
Supervisor to the Fire Department, whether the Department be a voluntary or
paid Department, for the use of its members and to such other persons as the
Maintenance Supervisor may deem proper. It shall be unlawful for any person to
whom any wrench is so furnished to permit the same to be taken from the place
of deposit, or to be used by any other person for any other purpose than that
authorized by Maintenance Supervisor.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 PERMIT TO TAP; APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tap to or make any connection
with any pipe line or water main forming a part of the town water system, or to
take or use any water from the water system without first having made
application and obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Any person desiring to tap to pipes or mains of the water system, or
make any connection therewith, or use water therefrom shall make application
therefor in writing for a permit to do so to the Town Clerk on a form to be
used for that purpose, therein agreeing to pay such rates for the use of water
as may then or thereafter be established by an appropriate resolution adopted
by the Board of Trustees from time to time, and also agreeing to conform to and
be governed by such rules and regulations that may be adopted by an appropriate
resolution by the Board of Trustees for the governing and control of the town
water system or any part thereof, which application shall also state the nature
or character of the tap or connection or appliance to be made with the water
system, the full legal names of the owners of such property, the name or names
of the tenants for such property, if any, the location by lot, block, and
street number thereof, the number of taps, the premises upon which water is
sought to be used, the character and size thereof, the nature of which it is to
be used, and in all cases, every application shall be accompanied by a tender
of sufficient money to pay not less than the minimum rate for the use of water
and all other charges of every kind until the next period of collection water
rates or charges.
   (C)   If the application for connection or use of water falls within the
provisions of this subchapter, the Town Clerk shall issue a permit which shall
be subject to all the matters provided for in the application and in this
subchapter. If the application shall include any provision for connection with
the town’s water system or use of water not specified in this subchapter, the
Town Clerk shall, at the next meeting of the Board of Trustees, refer the same
to the Board of Trustees for their action thereon, and if granted, he or she
shall there upon issue a permit.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 PERMIT TO TAP; SIGNING; RECORDS; COPIES.
   All permits shall be signed by the Maintenance Supervisor and countersigned
by the Town Clerk and shall set forth the name of the person for whose benefit
they shall be granted, the date thereof, the point on the water main at which
the tapping is to be done, the size and number of taps and stop cocks, the
premises to which the water is to be connected, the use to be made of the water
and the number and character of the appliances through which the same is to be
used. The Town Clerk shall keep a duplicate record of all permits issued in a
book or books kept for such purpose.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.020 TAPS; WHERE PERMITTED.
   (A)   No connection with the water system or use of water therefrom shall be
made through any extension of the service line of any other premises. Whenever
any person desires to tap the water main line and there is no main line in the
street adjoining his or her premises, and the town is unable to extend the
same, and the property owners will not join in the extension of the same, as by
law provided, such person may take water to his or her premises by connecting a
private line at his or her expense, in the street under the direction of the
Maintenance Supervisor to a point opposite his or her premises, which private
pipe line shall be treated as a water main line and a water meter shall be
placed therein opposite such premises. If any person desires to tap or extend
such private pipeline, adding thereto additional taps, he or she shall first
procure the written consent of the owners thereof, and shall, also, procure the
regular permit from the Town Clerk, and thereupon a tap may be put in the usual
way, at the expense of the applicant. Whenever a regular main line is laid
along where such private pipeline exists, the town may at its expense at any
time discontinue such private pipeline and make all connections with the
regular water main line. In all other cases where private service lines have
been laid on public or private grounds and the owners desire or are required to
make connections with the regular water mainline, it shall be done at the
expense of such owner or water consumer.
   (B)   In all cases where service lines have been constructed from a single
tap to different houses, buildings or premises, and a separate stop cock
accessible to the Maintenance Supervisor has been placed on the line leading to
each house, building or premises so that water can be easily turned or shut off
from the premises, the continued use of such water extension will be permitted
until main waterline is laid in the street in front of such house, building or
premises, at which time connections shall be made with such main water line at
the expense of the owner or consumer, and all service through the extension
lines shall thereupon be discontinued.
   (C)   If any premises shall have an extension of service line without a
separate stop cock, it will be required immediately to connect with the water
main line in front of the premises if there be such water main line, or lay a
private water main line and connect therewith as above provided.
   (D)   In no instance shall water be provided under this section to any
premises, house, building or lot unless a separate water meter is installed for
each premises, house, building or lot.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 SIZE; ORIFICE; EQUIPMENT BELONGS TO TOWN.
   Except in cases where the Maintenance Supervisor shall grant permission for
a connection or a meter of a greater size than herein provided for the use of
water, no meter inserted in or connected with the service line shall have an
orifice of a greater diameter than one inch and no less than three-quarters of
an inch, and every such connection for residential property shall be of
polyethlene pipe, and such service lines shall be connected with such stop by
polyethlene pipe and the service line shall extend from the main line to the
exterior property line, at which point shall be placed a meter, stop cock and
cover, or if there be no curb line, then at such point as the Maintenance
Supervisor shall direct, and so that the same shall be accessible to the
Maintenance Supervisor for the purpose of turning on or shutting off water by
means thereof.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.022 BY WHOM MADE; EXPENSES; SERVICE PIPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Maintenance Supervisor or some person acting under his or her
authority shall make all water meter connections, lay connecting service pipes
and place stop cock as provided in §
51.021, whenever a permit therefor shall have been granted as herein provided,
and in such connection, the material to be furnished and the labor to be
performed and the manner of doing the same shall be as follows. All service
pipes shall be polyethylene pipe of appropriate strength. The corporation cock,
curb stop cock and service pipe must be of the size specified in the permit.
   (B)   The polyethylene pipe shall test at 200 PSI shall extend from the
water main to the curb stop cock and meter box, which shall be placed on the
lot line. In any portions of the town where curbs and gutters may hereafter be
installed, the curb stop cock and meter box shall be placed at points within
the lot line to be designated by the Maintenance Supervisor.
   (C)   The town will furnish the corporation cock, curb stock cock, meter
box, saddle for converse joint pipe, tapping machines and repairs for the same.
The town shall furnish the above named material and piping, and shall put in
the connections from the water main to the curb line, and shall have exclusive
control of the same. An extra charge may be made at the option of the
Maintenance Supervisor to cover the additional expenses made necessary by
making connections when the ground is frozen. The consumer shall at his or her
own expense furnish all other material, tools and labor to make the finished
connections; all material shall be strictly first class and all work shall be
done in a substantial and workmanlike manner. Any work done or material
contrary to the requirements of this section shall be done over or refurnished
by the consumer upon direction of the Maintenance Supervisor.
   (D)   All service pipes shall be laid at least five feet below the
established grade of the street from the main to the gutter, and in all places
at least five feet below the surface of the ground, unless the State Plumbing
Code provides otherwise.
   (E)   In making excavations in avenues, streets, alleys or other places for
the purpose of laying service pipes or making repairs, or for any other
purpose, the earth removed must be kept and deposited in a manner that will
occasion the least inconvenience to the public, with provision for the passage
of water along the gutter, and a safe passageway for foot travel. The
backfilling of all trenches shall be settled with water if practicable, and
shall be tamped in order that the excavated material may be consolidated into
the place so as to leave the street in as good condition as before excavation.
All excavations in the street shall be made in conformity to the ordinances of
the town and in a workmanlike manner, and suitable barricades and guards shall
be placed around such excavations sufficient to protect all persons from injury
and damage, and, also, from twilight until sunrise, sufficient amber lights
shall be kept lighted near such excavation in order to protect all persons from
injury or damage thereby, and the persons making such excavation shall be
liable for all injuries or damages resulting from his or her failure to so
guard and place danger signals on and around such excavations in order to give
proper warning and to protect persons and property from injury on account of
such excavations.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.023 UNAUTHORIZED ACT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the Town Clerk to issue any permit for any
connection with the water system or any other purpose, or in any manner other
than by this section provided; or for the Maintenance Supervisor to permit any
tap or connection to be installed or made contrary to the ordinance of the
town, or until a permit has been issued and delivered to him or her, or
contrary to or in excess of the provisions thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any water consumer to use water through any
tap or service connection with the water main contrary to the provisions of
this subchapter, or to turn on water to his or her premises, lot, buildings or
house when the water has been shut off.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 TESTING CONNECTIONS; PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND FINES.
   No water shall be turned on for any premises, house, building or lot by the
Maintenance Supervisor or any other person until the water rate has been paid
according to the provisions of this chapter, and in case any person shall fail
to pay for use of water and all other charges, as provided, or shall otherwise
violate any of the provisions hereof, the person so offending may be deprived
by the Maintenance Supervisor or by order of the Board of Trustees, or upon
conviction thereof before the Municipal Court of the town or other court of
competent jurisdiction, in addition to the fines and penalties herein provided,
of the use of water from the water system until all fines, penalties, costs,
damages and lawful charges of every kind shall have been fully paid and until
such offense or offenses shall have ceased.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.025 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF FIXTURES.
   (A)   The owner and/or user of any premises for which a connection is made
and a stop cock with meter box and cover placed as aforesaid shall keep such
stop cock with meter box and cover placed as aforesaid in good condition at his
or her expense so that the Maintenance Supervisor shall be able to turn on and
shut off water from the service pipes at any time. From the stop cock and meter
box to in and upon his or her premises, the owner and user shall provide his or
her own pipe and plumbing which shall be constructed and placed so as to comply
with all ordinances upon plumbing and shall, at his or her expense at all time
keep all pipes, fixtures and appliances on his or her premises tight and good
working order so as to prevent waste of water.
   (B)   In case any pipe or fixture shall break or become imperfect, the owner
shall forthwith repair the same and keep the same in repair. In the event of
failure or refusal of the owner to so repair the same, the Maintenance
Supervisor may, upon notice to the owner thereof, shut off all water from the
premises.
   (C)   In case the Maintenance Supervisor shall on inspection ascertain that
any plumbing or fixtures on any premises are so defective, he or she shall
notify the owner or user of water to repair the same immediately, and if not
repaired within a reasonable length of time not to exceed 96 hours, he or she
may shut off the water from the premises and the same shall remain shut off
until such plumbing and fixtures are repaired.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.026 PERMIT TO INSTALL FIXTURES AND TO TURN ON WATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or other person to place any
plumbing fixtures for the use of water on any premises whatsoever without a
permit therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or other person to turn water on
to any premises when shut off for any reason without a permit from the
Maintenance Supervisor, or in cases of new plumbing, to leave the water turned
on without such permit.
   (C)   Any plumber or other person who shall violate the provisions of this
section, upon conviction, shall be fined as hereinafter provided, and if such
violation be by a plumber, his or her plumber’ license shall be subject to
forfeiture to the extent permitted by law if the Board of Trustees so elect.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.027 TURNING WATER ON; LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   If any person shall turn on or use water without having a license therefor,
or who after the water is turned on, shall fail to pay the water rates as in
this chapter provided, or in any amendment with respect thereto, or, if using a
meter, shall fail to pay for such services as in this chapter provided, or in
any amendment with respect thereto 31 days after the mailing of assessment and
demand for the payment thereof to the last known address of the person
occupying, or the owner of, any premises, house, building or lot to which such
water was furnished, the Board of Trustees may order the prosecution of such
person or offender in the Municipal Court of the town, and upon conviction
thereof, such person or offender shall be fined as hereinafter set forth in §
51.999. Whether or not the Town Board orders the prosecution of the offender as
herein provided, the Maintenance Supervisor shall nevertheless shut off water
to said premises, house, building or lot to which such water was furnished
until such fine and all costs, penalties and dues or charges for water shall
have been paid, and until he or she has collected the sum of $100, or such
greater amount as determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time by an
appropriate resolution for his or her services in turning on the water, which
money he or she shall at once pay over to the Town Clerk. No charge, however,
will be imposed in instances of necessary repairs or preservation of property.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 FAILURE TO HAVE.
   (A)   If, after a license shall have been issued, it shall be ascertained
that water is being used on any premises contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Maintenance Supervisor to shut off all
water from the premises until the proper license shall have been procured.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having a license to suffer or
permit any other person not having, a license to take or use water through his
or her fixtures or appliances, in any manner whatsoever, and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined as hereinafter provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 REPAIRS TO SYSTEM; TURNING OFF WATER.
   The Board of Trustees reserves the right to cause the water to be shut off
from any street main when it deems it necessary for repairing the same or
making connections or extensions of the same, or for the purpose of clearing
the same, or for any necessary work in repairing the pipe line or other
appliances or connections of the water system and in case of repair on the pipe
line or in case of scarcity or for any other reason may temporarily restrict
the use of water, and if need be for any reason, may forbid sprinkling and
otherwise regulate the time, place and manner or use of water and purpose for
which the same may be used, as occasion may require. In case of an emergency
the Board of Trustees may, by proclamation, restrict or regulate the use of
water until the next meeting of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.030 TAP FEES FOR CONNECTIONS.
   The tap fees to be paid to the town for connections to said town water
system for all connections after the effective date of this chapter shall be
$1,250. The Board of Trustees reserves the right to change the rates from time
to time by an appropriate resolution adopted at any regular or special meeting
of the Board at which a quorum is present and only after notice to all water
users.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.031 WATER RATES; RESPONSIBILITY IN MULTIPLE-TENANT PROPERTY.
   In the case of multiple-tenant property, only one meter shall be installed
and it shall be the owner of the property thereof to make allocation as he or
she sees fit among his or her tenants and, in any event, the owner of such
property shall be solely responsible for the payment of the water charges as
determined by meter readings from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.032 WATER USE DURING FIRES; PROHIBITED FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any water consumer or other person to turn on or
use any water for any other than domestic use during any fire, or while the
Fire Department is using water for fire purposes.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 WASTING WATER.
   Any person having a license to use water from the town water system is
encouraged not to permit, suffer or allow water to run to waste upon his or her
premises, building, house or lots.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.034 WATER USE OUTSIDE TOWN.
   The town may furnish and provide water for persons or property outside the
incorporated areas of the town upon the terms and rate as set by the Board of
Trustees from time to time. Priority shall first be given to town inhabitants
and commercial business establishments located within the incorporated limits
of the town prior to providing such outside-of-town services.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.035 LIEN FOR UNPAID CHARGES.
   All rates and charges for the use of water upon the property to which it is
delivered shall be and remain a lien against such property until the same shall
be paid. To the extend permitted by law, the Town Clerk shall certify to the
Board of County Commissioners the amount of unpaid rates and charges and the
property to which such pertains by no later than the day prior to the last day
of such permitted certification.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.050 CONNECTION WITH SYSTEM; REQUIRED WITHIN THE EXTERIOR BOUNDARIES OF THE
TOWN.
   (A)   Every owner of any inhabited buildings or buildings regularly used or
to be used by human inhabitants situated within the incorporated limits of the
town shall have such building or buildings connected to the town’s sewer
system.
   (B)   The owner of any property, whether such property is used for personal,
recreational, residential or business purposes, shall be solely responsible at
all times for all expenses incurred in either the installation, repair or
maintenance of the sewer line from the building or structure located on such
person’s property to the point of connection with the town’s main sewer line.
Any repairs or maintenance from the point of connection with the town’s main
sewer line and points downstream therefrom shall be the sole and separate
responsibility of the town. In no event and under no circumstances shall the
town be deemed, expressly or by implication, solely responsible for such
repairs, installation or maintenance work on such property owner’s property.
   (C)   In the event repair and/or maintenance of an existing sewer line for
which the property owner is solely responsible, or in the event of the
installation of a new sewer line on such owner’s property, such sewer line
shall consist of not less than SDR 35 grade pipe or better, and shall be bedded
on not less than 12 inches of either three-quarter inch washed gravel or washed
pea gravel, such bedding to occur the entire length of the sewer line from the
property owner’s structure to the point of connection with the town’s main
sewer line.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 51.051 PRIVIES AND WATER CLOSETS PROHIBITED.
   Open privies, water closets, cesspools or septic tanks shall not be allowed
on any property situated within the incorporated limits of the town.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
51.050(A) or
51.051 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as hereinafter set forth in §
51.999. Each day during which such owner or occupant shall fail to comply with
any provision of §§
51.050(A) or
51.051 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 BY WHOM MADE.
   It shall be unlawful for person not a licensed plumber licensed by the state
or his or her duly licensed assistant to make any taps for connection with the
sewer system of the town. The quality of workmanship shall first be approved by
the town’s Maintenance Supervisor before a permit is issued for the occupancy
of such building to which such connection is made.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 LAYING LINE THEREFOR; REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not a licensed plumber licensed by the
state to lay any sewer line in the town in any public street or avenue for the
purpose of connecting with the town sewer system unless such line be laid in
accordance with the grade and alignment established by the town’s Maintenance
Supervisor or his or her assistant under his or her supervision.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.055 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
51.053 and
51.054 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined as hereinafter set forth in §
51.999.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 SAND TRAPS FOR WASH RACKS; GREASE TRAPS FOR COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS;
REQUIRED.
   Every garage, both public and private, every filling station and every other
place within the town limits of the town which contains a washrack of any
description or other washing facility which is used for the purpose of, or is
ever used for, washing motor vehicles of any kind whatsoever, or other
commercial washing operation which is connected to the sanitary sewer system of
the town, and any commercial business establishment within the town’s limits,
such as, but not limited to, restaurants and retail business establishments
operating and maintaining food processing facilities generating or utilizing
fat or grease, whether of animal or other source, intended to be disposed by
and through the town’s sanitary sewer system, shall establish and maintain a
sand or mud trap in connection with such washrack or washing facility or a
grease trap in connection with such commercial establishment. Such trap shall
be so located as to catch sand, mud, grease and other matter washed from motor
vehicles or grease from commercial business establishments as referenced above
and to prevent the same from getting into the town’s sewer system and shall be
built in compliance with the plans and specifications as prepared by the
Maintenance Supervisor of the town or the town’s Engineer, the size thereof to
be not less than five cubic feet in volume.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 INSPECTING; CLEANING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of garages in the town, whether public or
private, or commercial business establishments as referenced in §
51.056 to not inspect such sand or grease traps frequently and to keep the same
cleaned out and working effectively. It shall be the duty of the Maintenance
Supervisor to inspect all such sand traps in garages and grease traps in
commercial establishments as often as in his or her judgment shall be necessary
and to order the same cleaned when he or she finds them to contain mud, grease,
or other matter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 VIOLATIONS OF §§
51.056 AND
51.057.
   If any person shall fail or refuse to obey any order of the Maintenance
Supervisor given pursuant to the provisions of §§
51.056 and
51.057 inclusive as hereinabove set forth, or if any owner or person in charge
of a place of business within the town shall maintain a commercial washrack or
other washing facility therein or a commercial business establishment
referenced in §
51.056 without having the same connected with a sand or grease trap that
complies with the provisions of §§
51.056 and
51.057, or if any person shall in any other manner violate any other provisions
of §§
51.056 and
51.057, such person, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined, notwithstanding
the provisions as set forth in §
51.999, not less than $50 for the first day of noncompliance; not less than
$100 for the second day of noncompliance, and not less than $150 for the third
day of noncompliance, increased by increments of $50 per day after the fourth
day, up to a maximum of $300 per day. Each day of noncompliance shall be deemed
to be a separate and distinct offense. If any person or business entity shall
fail to maintain good and sufficient sand or grease traps or controls and as a
result thereof, damage is caused to the sewer system, then such damages shall
be paid by the owners of the said property, occupant or business entity causing
the same. In the event of failure or refusal of said owner, occupant or
business entity to pay such damages as assessed, the town may bring such action
as it deems necessary and proper in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel
the payment thereof, and in connection with such proceedings, the town shall be
awarded its reasonable attorney fees incurred in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES WITHIN TOWN AND ANNEXED AREA.
   (A)   The rate of charge for each connection made to any dwelling unit or
other building situated whether situated within or without the incorporated
limits of the town to the town’s sewer system shall be at such rate as the
Board of Trustees may, from time to time, determine by an appropriate
resolution duly adopted by the Board at any regular or special meeting at which
a quorum was present. No connection shall hereafter be made with such sewer
system until the required fee shall have been paid to the Town Clerk and a
permit to make such connection issued by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   At the discretion of the Board of Trustees, for the purpose of
extending the town’s sewer system to territories lying outside the incorporated
limits of the town, no such extension shall be made unless the user shall pay
all charges incurred in making such connection, in addition to a tap fee of
$500. The Board of Trustees reserves the right to change the rates from time to
time by an appropriate resolution adopted at any regular or special meeting of
the Board at which a quorum is present and only after notice to all sewer
users.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any such new connection
with the sewer system without first obtaining the permit, and paying the fee
prescribed. The tap fees to be paid to the town for connections to said town
sewer system for all connections after the effective date of this chapter shall
be $500. The Board of Trustees reserves the right to change the rates from time
to time by an appropriate resolution adopted at any regular or special meeting
of the Board at which a quorum is present and only after notice to all water
users, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as hereinafter set forth in
§
51.999.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 PERMIT; BILLING; COLLECTION.
   Sewer charges shall be entered upon bills for sewer charges against the
premises. The owners or occupants of premises connected with the town’s sewer
system shall be billed by the Town Clerk each month for the charges hereby
established. Any property owner or occupant may pay the charges hereby fixed
for the first six months of any year during July of any year, or for the entire
year during January of any year, if they desire to pay such in advance.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.061 DELINQUENCY.
   If any person using the sewer system shall neglect, fail or refuse to pay
the rates and charges fixed by this chapter for connection with or use of the
sewer system, such person and the premises occupied by him or her shall not be
disconnected from the use of the sewer system, but the charges due from any
such person shall be filed by the Town Clerk with the Board of County
Commissioners within ten days after such date, together with a statement
showing the names of the persons so delinquent and the description of the real
property served by sewer connections for which charges fixed in this chapter
are so delinquent. Such charges shall thereupon become a lien upon such real
property and shall be collected in the manner provided by C.R.S. § 31-35-617;
provided, however, that charges so imposed upon real property which is not
subject to taxation or lien under the constitution or laws of this state by
reason of its ownership, character or use, may be collected by any appropriate
action in the County or District Court of the county.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.062 SEWER USE CHARGES OUTSIDE TOWN; SCHEDULE.
   Under and by virtue of the authority conferred upon the governing bodies of
towns by C.R.S. § 31-35-701 to fix rates for the use of the sewerage systems of
the municipalities in this state by owners of property in unincorporated
territory without the boundaries thereof, such rates established by the Board
of Trustees from time to time by an appropriate resolution adopted at any
regular and special meeting at which a quorum is present, and after notice
thereof, shall be deemed to be just, reasonable and necessary whether such
connection has been heretofore made or shall be hereafter made.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.063 PAYMENT, COLLECTION; OUTSIDE TOWN.
   (A)   The rates and charges established herein shall become effective upon
the publication of this chapter as hereafter set forth. The rates so specified
shall be paid on a monthly basis and shall be due and payable on the first day
of each month, and if not paid during the month in which they become due, shall
become delinquent. The sewer charges as by this chapter provided may be entered
upon bills for water charges against the same premises as additional separate
items.
   (B)   The owner or occupants of premises that are outside the incorporated
limits of the town and that are not connected with the town’s water system, but
connected to the town’s sewer systems shall be billed by the Town Clerk each
month, unless such charges are paid in advance for one or more months. If such
sewer charges are not paid during the month in which they become due, the
charge shall be considered delinquent. All delinquent charges shall be
certified by the Town Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners or to the
County Treasurer, which ever is applicable under then existing law, together
with a statement showing the name or names of the person or persons so
delinquent and the legal description of the property served by the sewer
connection for which charges as fixed herein are delinquent. Such charges so
imposed upon real property that is not subject to taxation or lien under the
Constitution or laws of this state by reason of ownership, character, or use
may be collected by any appropriate action in the County Court or the District
Court of the county.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.064 DEPOSITING RECEIPTS.
   Revenue derived from the rates and charges fixed and established by this
chapter, whether water charges or sewer charges, shall be placed in the town’s
bank account established and maintained for its Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund
and as may be required by law or other ordinances adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the town.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
RATES FOR SEWER AND WATER
§ 51.075 WATER AND SEWER CHARGES; MANNER OF DETERMINING; AMENDING RATES.
   (A)   The amount charged and the amount collected for water and sewer by the
town shall be such amounts as fixed from time to time by a resolution duly
adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees reserves the right to amend at any time the rate
to be charged for the furnishing of water and/or sewer services, including the
right to change the rates to be charged for connection to the town’s sewer
system and water system. Any changes in rates shall be made by means of an
appropriate resolution duly made and adopted at any regular or special meeting
of the Board of Trustees at which a quorum was present throughout; provided,
however, that no changes in rates shall be made without first giving written
notice to such property owner mailed to each property owner by first-class mail
at his or her or its last known address no later than 30 days prior to the
effective date of the rate change.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.076 USE CALCULATION AND PARTIAL USE.
   The use period for the water system shall be from meter reading to the
subsequent month’s meter reading, and the use period for the sewer system shall
be from the first day of each month to the last day of each month. The
connection or use to either the water system or sewer system for any portion of
the month shall result in a full month’s billing charge.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.077 BUSINESSES AND RESIDENTIAL COMBINED RATE.
   Any building that is used for both business and single living quarters shall
be charged the minimum monthly in-town or out-of-town fee, as the case may be,
for water plus such additional usage charge as determined by monthly meter
readings, and for applicable monthly in-town or out-of-town sewer rate, as the
case may be, as established by the Board of Trustees by resolution from time to
time. With respect to any building that is used for business(es) and/or
multiple living quarters, the charge for each such unit shall be the minimum
monthly in-town or out-of-town fee, as the case may be, for water plus such
additional usage charge as determined by monthly meter readings for the total
unit, and for each such unit, the applicable monthly in-town or out-of-town
sewer rate, as the case may be, as established by the Board of Trustees by
resolution from time to time. All of the foregoing shall apply whether or not
the units, and any of them, are occupied.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.078 EXCESSIVE USE CHARGE.
   Any user of the service of the town’s sewer system making excessive and
abnormal use over and above usual and normal use as determined by the average
daily inflow meter readings at the town’s sewer lagoons shall be subject to a
rate to be determined by Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sections of this chapter that provide for fines and penalties:
Section Subject
Section   Subject
51.016(A) Injury to water system
51.016(B) Trespass upon water system
51.016(C) Interference with flow of wells
51.016(D) Deposit of foreign object in water supply
51.017(A) Unauthorized operation of fire hydrant
51.017(B) Impermissible use of fire hydrant wrenches
51.018    Unlawful connection to water system without permit
51.023(A) Unlawful issuance of permit by town clerk
51.023(B) Unlawful for consumer to turn on water when it has been turned off
51.024    Failure to pay for use of water
51.026(A) Unlawful to place plumbing fixtures before issuance of permit
51.026(B) Unlawful to turn water on when shut off
51.026(C) Forfeiture of plumbing license
51.027(A) Turning water on without permit or turning on water after shut off
51.027(B) Permitting water to be taken for use by a non-licensee
51.032    Use of water during fires
51.052    Failure to connect to sewer system-privies
51.053    Unlawful connection to sewer system unless authorized by maintenance
          supervisor
51.054    Unlawful laying of sewer lines
          Penalties for violating §§
51.055    51.053 and
          51.054
51.057    Inspecting sand traps - grease traps -private garages, commercial
          establishments
51.058    Violations of sections 3.7.1 through3.8.1 inclusive
51.059(C) Unlawful to connect to sewer system without permit
 
   (B)   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to
this chapter.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of the chapter or who
shall fail or refuse to obey any lawful order or direction of the Board of
Trustees of the town or of the Maintenance Supervisor made under or pursuant to
this chapter, or in carrying out any of its provision shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as hereinafter
provided for each and every offense, and each day that any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall exist, shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
      (2)   Except as may otherwise be provided herein above, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision set forth in this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 for the first violation thereof; not
less than $200 for the second violation thereof, and not more than $300. The
Municipal Judge shall have no discretion to suspend such fine and/or
imprisonment.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 8-24-2006; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Adoption
   
52.02   Addition or modification
   
52.03   Application
   
52.04   Interpretation
§ 52.01 ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Article 16, Parts 1 and 2 and C.R.S. Title 30,
Article 15, Part 4, there is hereby adopted by reference Appendix B: Example
Ordinance as promulgated by the State Department of Public Health and
Environment that relates to the protection of the town’s public water supply
system from contamination or pollutants that could enter the distribution
systems by backflow from a customer’s water supply system through the service
connection. The purpose of this chapter and Appendix B adopted by reference
herein is to provide a system of regulation that is consistent with state laws
and regulations. Three copies of said Appendix B adopted herein are on file in
the office of the Clerk of the town.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 52.02 ADDITION OR MODIFICATION.
   The said adopted Appendix B is subject to the following deletions, additions
or modifications.
   (A)   Section (3): applicability of said Appendix B is deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following new Section (3):
      “This ordinance applies to all commercial, industrial, multi-family and
single-family residence service connections with the town’s water supply system
and to any person outside the exterior boundaries of the town who are, by
contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s water system. Unless
provided otherwise herein, this ordinance shall apply with equal force to
single-family residential service connection at which, upon inspection, there
is a cross-connection, including, but not limited to, fire suppression
sprinkler systems, frost-free water taps and home lawn sprinkler systems. Not
exempt from the provisions of this ordinance are car wash establishments that
derive their water supply from the town’s municipal system.”
   (B)   Section (5): requirements of said Appendix B is modified by the
additional of a new subparagraph M. to read as follows:
      “M.   In all instances where it is determined that a cross-connection is
found to exist, the town’s Maintenance Supervisor or the Town Manager, who ever
chooses to exercise jurisdiction with respect thereto, shall specify the exact
type of device to be installed at such cross-connection site.”
   (C)   Section (8), subparagraph a.: right of entry of said Appendix B is
modified by the addition of a new sentence at the end of the present
subparagraph a. to read as follows:
      “If, after such right of entry and inspection, it is determined that the
presence of a cross- connection presents a clear and present danger to the
health, safety and welfare of the customers of the town’s water distribution
system, the town’s Maintenance Supervisor or the Town Manager, whoever chooses
to exercise jurisdiction with respect thereto, shall order the immediate turn
off to the town’s water supply system until the cross-connection is
eliminated.”
   (D)   Section (9), subparagraph a.: violations and penalties of said
Appendix B is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new
penalty provisions:
      “If, upon an inspection as herein provided, it is determined that there
exists a cross-connection that poses a clear and present danger to the health,
safety and welfare of the users of the town’s water supply system, the person,
firm or corporation shall be so notified of such violation. Such person, firm
or corporation shall be given ten business days following such notification to
commence the elimination of such cross-connection in accordance with the
requirement set down by the town’s Maintenance Supervisor or the Town Manager,
whoever chooses to exercise jurisdiction with respect thereto, and upon the
failure or refusal of such person to comply with such order, such person shall
be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which any provision of either or all of such Appendix B is
violated, continued or permitted, and upon conviction shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $300 nor more than $1,000.”
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-14-2016; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 52.03 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to every site, whether within or outside the
corporate limits of this municipality if such site is served with municipal
water, the use of which this municipality has jurisdiction and authority to
regulate, and shall apply with equal force at any such site where a cross-
connection is found to exist.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 52.04 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be so interpreted and construed so as to effectuate it
general purpose with Appendix B of the State Department of Public Health and
Environment and the State Plumbing Code providing for a uniform system of
regulation of a municipality’s source of potable water to its customers.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 7-14-2016)
CHAPTER 53: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
53.01   Mandatory lawn irrigation and watering restrictions
   
53.02   Enforcement
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 MANDATORY LAWN IRRIGATION AND WATERING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter and on May 12 of each
subsequent year, and ending May 31, 2004, and on May 31 of each subsequent
year, it shall be unlawful for any consumer of municipal water or other person,
or for the owner of any property using municipal water to cause, permit, suffer
or allow any person to irrigate, sprinkle or otherwise apply water from the
municipal water system to any lawns or gardens or other area of land on which
grass, gardens, or shrubs are grown except according to the following
schedules:
 
Area                                                                              Restrictions
                                                                                  Monday,
                                                                                  Wednesday
                                                                                  and Friday
For all premises lying north of Third Street of the town, or any extension        only from 5:
thereof to the east or the west if premises lie outside the incorporated limits   00 a.m. to
of the town                                                                       10:00 a.m.
                                                                                  and from 5:
                                                                                  00 p.m. to
                                                                                  10:00 p.m.
                                                                                  Tuesday,
                                                                                  Thursday and
For all premises lying south of Third Street of the town, or any extension        Saturday
thereof to the east or the west if premises lie outside the incorporated limits   only from 5:
of the town, including, but not limited to, premises lying south of County Road W 00 a.m. to
(commonly known as the “Peterson Road”) and west of Highway 285               10:00 a.m.
                                                                                  and from 5:
                                                                                  00 p.m. to
                                                                                  10:00 p.m.
 
   (B)   The watering of lawns, gardens and shrubs on days and times other than
permitted days and times as hereinabove set forth is prohibited.
   (C)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter and until its repeal
or amendment thereof, it shall be unlawful for any consumer of municipal water
or other person, or for the owner of any property using municipal water to
cause, permit, suffer or allow any water derived from the municipal water
system to be given, sold, delivered or utilized to or by any consumer thereof
in any area lying outside of the areas now being served by municipal water.
Notwithstanding the terms and provision of this division (C), nothing contained
herein shall prohibit the town, by and through its Maintenance Department, to
furnish and provide water derived from the town’s municipal water system to
governmental entities such to include, but not limited to, the County Road and
Bridge Department, the Colorado Department of Transportation, the County Weed
District and other political subdivisions of the state, or to Excel Energy
Corporation, the Centurytel Telephone or such other utility companies and
suppliers, at no cost to such consumer so long as the town continues to
receive, as it has in the past, from such governmental entities and utility
companies the furnishing of street cleaning and sweeping services, painting of
center stripping of town streets not otherwise part of the state highway,
system, paving and road base materials, the relocation of underground and
overhead wires and cables, and matters and activities of a similar nature, it
being the express and specific intent to the Board of Trustees that such mutual
cooperative efforts are for the ultimate benefit of the citizens of the town at
a minimal cost thereof.
   (D)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter and until its repeal
or amendment thereof, it shall be unlawful for any consumer of municipal water
or other person, or for the owner of any property using municipal water to
cause, permit, suffer or allow any water derived from the municipal water
system to be utilized in the washing of a motor vehicle except on the days and
times of day as set forth in division (A) above applicable to the area in which
such washing is to occur. For purposes of this chapter, the definition of a
MOTOR VEHICLE shall be as set forth in C.R.S. § 42-1-102(58), as amended.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful in the course of the washing of a motor vehicle
as otherwise permitted by this chapter to conduct such activity utilizing a
hose not having at the discharge end thereof a nozzle designed to restrict the
flow of water while at the same time increasing the discharge pressure thereof.
   (F)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter and until its repeal
or amendment thereof, it shall be unlawful for any consumer of municipal water
or other person, or for the owner of any property using municipal water to
permit, suffer or allow any person not a full-time resident of the area served
by the municipal water system to engage in the washing of such nonresident
person’s motor vehicles with water derived from the municipal water system.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all real property within
the incorporated limits of the town, whether publicly or privately owned, and
all land outside of the incorporated limits of the town that is served by the
town’s municipal water utility system.
   (H)   With respect to all land outside of the incorporated limits of the
town that is served by the town’s municipal water utility system, the
provisions of this section may be enforced by a suit for injunctive relief in
any court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit
the town from seeking the awarding of costs and reasonable attorney fees in the
event injunctive relief is granted.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. 2004-5,
passed 10-13-2004) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the issuance of summonses and
complaints in accordance with the State Municipal Court Rules of Procedure.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any consumer or other person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished by a minimum fine of not less than
$100, which fine shall not be suspended by the Municipal Court; upon a second
conviction of such consumer or other person for a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished by a minimum
fine of not less than $200, which fine shall not be suspended by the Municipal
Court; upon a third and each subsequent conviction of such consumer or other
person for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a maximum fine of, but not less than, $300,
which fine shall not be suspended by the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Each day during which a violation of any provision of this chapter
occurs or continues shall constitute a separate violation under this chapter.
Upon a third or subsequent conviction of such consumer or other person for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine
imposed by this section, the Municipal Court may order the shutting off of such
water user’s water supply for a period of one week, being permitted, however,
to limit water use for health and sanitary purposes only,
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 2003-2, passed 6-12-2003)
CHAPTER 54: WATER ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Establishment of the Enterprise
   
54.03   Enterprise excluded
   
54.04   Governing body
   
54.05   Powers of the Enterprise
   
54.06   Enterprise obligations and town obligations
   
54.07   Transactions in the name of the town
   
54.08   Findings of the Board of Trustees
   
54.09   Termination
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. C.R.S. Title 37, Article 45.1, Part 1.
   DISTRICT. Includes municipalities.
   GRANT. In the context of the Act, means a cash payment of public funds made
directly to a water activity enterprise by the state or a local governmental
entity or a district, which cash payment is not required to be repaid.
   WATER ACTIVITY. Includes, but not be limited to, the diversion, storage,
carriage, delivery, distribution, collection, treatment, use, reuse,
augmentation, exchange or discharge of water, as well as the provision of
wholesale or retail water or wastewater or stormwater services and the
acquisition of water or water rights.
   WATER ACTIVITY ENTERPRISE. To include any water activity business owned by a
district, which enterprise receives under 10% of its annual revenue in grants
from all state and local governments combined and which is authorized to issue
its own revenue bonds pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ENTERPRISE.
   The town hereby establishes the enterprise as an agency of the town and
formally designates it as the “Town of La Jara, Colorado, Water Activity
Enterprise”. It shall be the purpose of the Enterprise to pursue or continue
all the town’s water activities as defined in the Act, including water
acquisition or water project or facility activities, including the
construction, operation, repair and replacement of water or wastewater
facilities, using revenues and income generated by and earned or acquired in
connection with such water activities and held and managed in the town’s Water
Enterprise Fund. As between the town and the Enterprise, all water activities
will be deemed done and furnished by the Enterprise.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.03 ENTERPRISE EXCLUDED.
   Pursuant to and in accordance with the Act, the Enterprise shall be excluded
from the provisions of the amendment, and shall be entitled to impose rates,
fees, tolls and charges; collect and spend revenues; issue revenue bonds; and
construct, operate and maintain facilities and provide water services; all
without reference or regard to the limitations contained in the amendment.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.04 GOVERNING BODY.
   The members of the Board of Trustees shall serve as the governing body of
the Enterprise and shall be known collectively as the Board of Directors of the
Enterprise (the “Board”). Acting as the Board, the Board of Trustees may
exercise the town’s legal authority relating to water activities as defined in
the Act. The Board hereby is directed to take all actions necessary to cause
the Enterprise to comply with all applicable laws.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.05 POWERS OF THE ENTERPRISE.
   The Enterprise shall have all powers and authority granted to water activity
enterprises by the provisions of the Act, including, but not limited to, the
power to conduct and continue water activities as defined in the Act; the power
to contract, with any person or entity, including other districts as defined in
the Act and other water activity enterprises as defined in the Act; and the
power to issue and reissue revenue bonds through its governing body in
accordance with and through the provisions of C.R.S. § 37-45.1-104(2).
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.06 ENTERPRISE OBLIGATIONS AND TOWN OBLIGATIONS.
   In consideration of the Enterprise’s commitment to provide water services
for which the town actually is obligated and to pay, from revenues and income
in the Water Enterprise Fund, debt service on general obligation bonds and
notes of the town issued in the past to finance the acquisition, construction
and installation of water rights, facilities and appurtenances, the town hereby
agrees to continue to provide administrative services for the Enterprise and
its activities, to continue to hold title to and own all of the assets
currently owned by the town and necessary to the operation of the Enterprise,
and to impose and collect all rates, fees, tolls and charges for water
activities pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Article 35, Part 4.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.07 TRANSACTIONS IN THE NAME OF THE TOWN.
   Any and all transactions of the Enterprise may be done in the name of the
town or in the name of the Enterprise and neither this section nor any
transaction entered into pursuant, to it shall alter or abrogate the
relationship of the town and the Enterprise as established in §
54.02 and further clarified from time to time in joint resolutions that may
hereafter be adopted by the town and the Enterprise.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.08 FINDINGS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees of the town hereby makes the following findings with
respect to the establishment of the Enterprise.
   (A)   The town’s Water Enterprise Fund, water rights, water facilities and
appurtenances all shall comprise the Enterprise which shall be and is the water
activity business owned by the town.
   (B)   The Enterprise shall be and is an agency of the town for the purposes
and within the meaning of the following:
      (1)   C.R.S. Title 24, Article 10, Part 1, the Colorado Governmental
Immunity Act;
      (2)   C.R.S. Title 29, Article 1, Part 6, the Colorado Local Government
Audit Law;
      (3)   C.R.S. Title 29, Article 1, Part 1, the Local Government-Budget Law
of Colorado; and
      (4)   All other local, state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   (C)   The establishment of the Enterprise is necessary to provide a secure
water supply for domestic use by the inhabitants of the town and other domestic
customers of the Enterprise; to continue to provide water for agricultural uses
currently being practiced within the incorporated limits of the town, to supply
water for food processing, recreational and all other beneficial uses, to
treat, reclaim, conserve, recharge, augment, exchange or reuse water supplies;
and to provide wholesale and retail water supply and wastewater services.
   (D)   The town has the authority to conduct water activities as defined in
the Act and is the sole owner of the Enterprise as required by the Act. The
town has bonding authority for water activities pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31,
Article 35, Part 4, all as required by the Act.
   (E)   The Enterprise receives under 10% of its annual revenues in grants (as
defined in the Act) from all state and local governments combined and the town
has not received nor does it expect to receive for the remainder of fiscal year
1983 any of its revenue from such sources.
   (F)   Pursuant to the Act, the Enterprise is authorized to issue its own
revenue bonds.
   (G)   The Enterprise does not, and shall not, levy any tax whatsoever, nor
shall any rates, tolls, fees or charges imposed or collected by the Enterprise
ever be deemed to be taxes for any purpose under any law, rule or regulation,
whether local, state or federal.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
§ 54.09 TERMINATION.
   The Enterprise shall remain in existence at the will of the Board of
Trustees and in accordance with law. In the event that the Enterprise is
terminated by operation of law or by act of the Board of Trustees, any and all
assets of the Enterprise, immediately and without the need for further action,
shall be deemed to be and shall be assets of the town.
(Ord. 1993-2, passed 12-9-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption
   
70.02   Interpretation
   
70.03   Definitions
 
   
70.99   Violations
§ 70.01 ADOPTION.
    Pursuant to Title 31, Article 16, Parts 1 and 2, C.R.S., there is hereby
adopted by reference Part 1-20, inclusive, of the 2020 edition of the Model
Traffic Code for Colorado, as therein after amended, promulgated and published
as such by the Colorado Department of Transportation, Safety and Traffic
Engineering Branch, 4201 East Arkansas Avenue, EP 700, Denver, Colorado 80222,
and as therein after modified and republished by the Town of La Jara, Colorado
as its version of the Model Traffic Code in 2022. The subject matter of the
Model Traffic Code relates primarily to comprehensive traffic control
regulations for the Town. The purpose of this Article and the code adopted
herein is to provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with state law
and generally conforming to similar regulations throughout the State and the
Nation.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 70.02 INTERPRETATION.
This Article shall be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate its general
purpose to conform with the State’s uniform system for the regulation of
vehicles and traffic. Article and section headings of this Article and the
adopted Model Traffic Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in
any manner affect the scope, meaning or extent of the provisions of any article
or section thereof.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 11-10-2022)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word “shall”
is mandatory and not merely directory or discretionary.
   MODEL TRAFFIC CODE FOR COLORADO MUNICIPALITIES. The edition of the Model
Traffic Code for Colorado Municipalities as promulgated by the State Department
of Transportation, last adopted by the Board of Trustees of the town.
   TOWN OF LA JARA MODEL TRAFFIC CODE. The Model Traffic Code above referenced
as modified, amended, and republished by the Town of La Jara, Colorado.
   TOWN ORDINANCE. Any ordinance of the Town of La Jara, the violation of which
provides, upon conviction thereof, fines or penalties and/or imprisonment.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 11-10-2022)SURCHARGES
§ 70.99 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Article of this Chapter for which no specific penalty has been provided or for
which the sole penalty provided is a fine, which violations are hereby deemed
traffic infractions. All provisions of the Model Traffic Code (referenced in
Section
70.01 above and as the same may be from time to time republished) which have
been deemed “traffic infractions” in identical substantive provisions of Title
42, C.R.S., are hereby deemed traffic infractions under this Chapter and are
thereby “decriminalized.” (Reference is made to the “common code” appendix to
Title 42, C.R.S., published by Bradford Publishing Co., 1741 Wazee Street,
Denver, Colorado 80202 [and as the same may be from time to time amended] for
classification and compilation of such traffic infractions.) A traffic
infraction shall be a civil matter for which punishment by imprisonment shall
not be available, and for which a penalty assessment notice shall be issued.
Every person who is convicted of a traffic infraction is subject to a penalty
of at least ten dollars ($ 10.00), but not more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for a first offense within any twenty-four-month period, exclusive of
any court costs and surcharges.
   (B)   For any violation of any provision of this Title VII which is a
traffic infraction, no trial by jury shall be available, no arrest warrant
shall be issued for failure to appear or to pay, no privilege against self-
incrimination shall apply, the standard of proof shall be a preponderance of
the evidence, and the conduct of all proceedings applicable to such a violation
shall otherwise be in conformity with those generally applicable to civil
matters.
   (C)   For any violation of any provision of this Title VII which is a
traffic infraction, the Municipal Court may enter a judgment of liability by
default against the defendant for failure to appear or to pay, and may assess
such penalty, together with such court costs and surcharges, as are established
by law. The Municipal Court may establish, by written order, rules and
regulations for the administration of any violation of this Title VII which is
a traffic infraction, including but not limited to schedules establishing the
amount of penalties payable without a court appearance. The Municipal Court
will utilize Colorado State procedures for any penalty assessment notice which
constitutes a traffic infraction. Any penalty assessment notice which is paid
within twenty (20) days of issuance of said notice shall result in the
following reduction in points:
      (1)   A four-point or three-point violation will be reduced to a two-
point violation.
      (2)   A two-point violation will be reduced to a one-point violation.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the following
provisions of this Chapter, which violations are hereby deemed not to be
traffic infractions. Every person convicted of a violation of the following
provisions of this Chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00), exclusive of any court costs and surcharges, or by
imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment:
      (1)   Section 107 of the Model Traffic Code, Obedience to police
officers.
      (2)   Section 1101 of the Model Traffic Code, where the speed as driven
is twenty (20) miles per hour or more over the lawful speed.
      (3)   Section 1103 of the Model Traffic Code, Minimum speed regulation.
      (4)   Section 1105 of the Model Traffic Code, Speed contest.
      (5)   Section 1401 of the Model Traffic Code, Reckless driving.
      (6)   Section 1402 of the Model Traffic code, Careless driving.
      (7)   Section 1409 of the Model Traffic Code, No insurance.
      (8)   Section 1413 of the Model Traffic Code, Eluding or attempting to
elude a police officer.
      (9)   Section 1903 of the Model Traffic Code, Stopping for school buses.
      (10)   Any injury accident.
      (11)   Any single offense over four (4) points.
      (12)   Noninjury accidents where estimated damage exceeds two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00).
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 11-10-2022)
CHAPTER 71: INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
71.03   Leaving of wrecked vehicles on street
   
71.04   Junked or inoperative vehicles and trailers on private property
   
71.05   Parking of certain vehicles; time limits on street; extension into
street
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle valued principally because of its age of
25 years or more since its date of manufacture, or licensed as an antique
vehicle by the state, or other state with similar license provisions.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not capable of being promptly started
and driven under its own power upon a street or highway.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the incorporated limits of the Town of La
Jara that is not a street or highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A vehicle propelled by a source of power other than human power,
which source is contained within or on the vehicle itself, such vehicle being
designed to travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, runners or
slides and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include,
but not be limited to: automobiles; airplanes; trucks; motorcycles; motor
scooters; tractors; buggies; and wagon. The term VEHICLE shall not include
antique vehicle as defined in this section.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004)
§ 71.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the incorporated limits of the
town, and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the town for
such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to
appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 LEAVING OF WRECKED VEHICLES ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, wrecked, inoperable or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the incorporated limits of the
town.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 JUNKED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES AND TRAILERS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Trustees of the town hereby declares that the
keeping of any wrecked, partially wrecked, junked or inoperative trailer or
vehicle, or part thereof, on any property within the incorporated limits of the
town is a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner of any
such vehicle, trailer or parts, or any person who is in charge or in control of
any property within the town, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, to permit or allow any wrecked, partially wrecked, junked or
inoperative vehicle, trailer or parts thereof to remain on such property. This
section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle, trailer or parts in an
enclosed building, in a storage place or depository maintained by the town for
impounded vehicles, or completely concealed from public view by adequate
fencing or landscaping.
   (B)   Investigation and notice of violation. The Chief of Police or his or
her designee is hereby authorized to investigate any vehicle left at any place
within the town and which reasonably appears to be in violation of division (A)
above or lost, stolen or unclaimed. If after investigation there is probable
cause for believing a violation of this chapter exists, the person making the
investigation shall serve a notice of such violation upon the owner or occupant
of the premises on which such vehicle is located, advising such person of the
violation and ordering its removal within ten days from the date of the notice.
Such notice may be served by personal delivery or by mailing the same by
certified mail to the last known address of the owner or to the address of the
premises, if occupied. No summons and complaint shall be issued for any
violation of this chapter which occurs on private property until the expiration
of ten days from the date of the notice of violation. In the event that the
owner of the vehicle or the person in possession of the premises on which such
vehicle is located cannot be found for a period of 14 days, then and in that
event the summons and complaint alleging the violation of this section may be
issued against the vehicle, describing the same by make, year, and model. The
Chief of Police or his or her designees is hereby authorized to go on private
property for the purpose of making an investigation for any violation of
division (A) above for the purpose of determining ownership and condition of
any vehicle reasonably appearing to be in violation of any of the provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES; TIME LIMITS ON STREET; EXTENSION INTO
STREET.
   (A)   The owner of a motor home, mobile home, camper, trailer, recreational
vehicle or any other trailer designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle shall be
allowed to park such mobile home, motor home, camper, trailer, recreational
vehicle or any other trailer designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle, or the
guests of a homeowner or tenant shall be allowed to park such motor home,
mobile home, camper, trailer, recreational vehicle or any other trailer
designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle on any street of the town so long as
such parking is on the same side of the street fronting the property of the
owner or tenant of such motor home, mobile home, camper, trailer, recreational
vehicle or any other trailer designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle, or the
guests thereof, and so long as the parking thereof is confined to the area
delineated by the exterior property lines of such owner or tenant extended at
right angles to the street and so long as the parking thereof shall not pose a
traffic hazard. In no event shall such motor home, mobile home, camper,
trailer, recreational vehicle or any other trailer designed to be pulled by a
motor vehicle be parked upon any street of the town so as to extend outward
into the street a distance in excess of ten feet measured at right angles to
the curb. The restrictions delineated in this division (A) are subject to such
additional regulations in division (B) below.
   (B)   No person shall at any time park, place, locate or keep any truck
tractor drawing a semitrailer or trailer not connected to a truck tractor upon
any public street, alley, park or way of the town, or on any railroad property
or railroad right-of-way in a residentially zoned areas of the town, provided
that such truck tractors may make necessary stops not exceeding five minutes in
length, or emergency stops, and may make stops for the purpose of making
deliveries.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle upon a street, alley, highway or other
public rights-of-way for the principal purpose of greasing, painting or
repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004; Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-9-2004) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted in the Municipal Court of the town of a violation
of any term, provision or section of this chapter may fined an amount not to
exceed $300.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the power of the Municipal
Court to take such action as the Court may deem appropriate, in the sound
exercise of its discretion, to summon, try and punish any person who may be
found in contempt of said Court arising from violations of any term or
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-2, passed 7-8-2004)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions and terms
   
72.02   Prohibited activities for all-terrain vehicles
   
72.03   Prohibited activities for mini-bikes
   
72.04   Prohibited activities for go-carts
   
72.05   Prohibited activities for snowmobiles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle that is designed to travel
on two wheels, three wheels or four wheels or tracks, depending on type of
manufacture and model, in contact with the ground that is designed primarily
for the use of public streets, roadways or highways, and that is generally and
commonly used to transport persons for recreational purposes.
   GO-CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that is designed to travel on four
wheels in contact with the ground, that it not designed for use on public
streets, roadways or highways and which is generally used to transport persons
for recreational purposes.
   MINI-BIKE. Any self-propelled vehicle that is designed to travel on two
wheels in contract with the ground that is not designed for use on public
streets, roadways or highways, and that is generally used to transport persons
for recreational purposes.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle primarily designed or altered for
travel on snow or ice when supported in part by skis, bells or cleats.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES FOR ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a two-wheeled, three-wheeled
or four-wheeled all-terrain vehicle upon any street, alley, roadway, highway,
driveway, barrow ditch, sidewalk area, park, any other public way or public
place or public parking area, either within or outside the corporate limits of
this municipality, the use of which this municipality has jurisdiction and
authority to regulate. The provision of this chapter shall not apply when the
all-terrain vehicle is being used for specific events designated by the town
acting by and through its Board of Trustees, Police Department or Fire
Department, or when the all-terrain vehicle is being used in connection with
farming or agricultural purposes or when the all-terrain vehicle is being used
for snow removal only.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES FOR MINI-BIKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mini-bike upon any street,
alley, roadway, highway, driveway, barrow ditch, sidewalk area, park, any other
public way or public place or public parking area either within or outside the
corporate limits of this municipality, the use of which the municipality has
jurisdiction and authority to regulate.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES FOR GO-CARTS.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a go-cart upon any street,
alley, roadway, highway, driveway, barrow ditch, sidewalk area, park, any other
public way or public place or public parking area, either within or outside the
corporate limits of this municipality, the use of which this municipality has
jurisdiction and authority to regulate.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES FOR SNOWMOBILES.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile upon any
street, alley, roadway, highway, driveway, barrow ditch, sidewalk area, park,
any other public way or public place or public parking area either within or
outside the corporate limits of this municipality, the use of which this
municipality has jurisdiction and authority to regulate.
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties herewith set forth in full shall apply to this
chapter.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions adopted
in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, may be, at the discretion
of the Municipal Judge of the town, fined in accordance with the following:
 
Classification Minimum to Maximum Fine
First offense  $25 to $300
Second offense $50 to $300
Third offense  Discretion of the Court to $300
 
(Ord. 1998-1, passed 7-9-1998; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through streets
   
II.   Temporary stop signs
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Traffic signals authorized
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Spruce Street from First Street to Fourth Street in the
town is hereby designated as a through street. Signs bearing the word “stop”
shall be placed in the center or at the side of all streets crossing such
through street at or within 30 feet of their intersection with such through
street.
         (b)   The driver of any vehicle on any such cross street where such
signs are in place shall come to a full stop before driving upon such through
street, either for the purpose of turning into or of crossing the same.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees of the town at any time hereafter may
designate any other street, or part of a street, in the town as a through
street by resolution adopted at any meeting of said Board and when “stop” signs
shall be placed on streets crossing such through street or streets the drivers
of vehicles upon such cross streets shall be governed by the same regulations
as are set forth in division (A)(1) above for drivers on streets crossing
Spruce Street.
      (3)   No person shall intentionally injure, deface, remove or destroy any
“stop” sign or other sign erected by authority of the Board of Trustees of the
town on any streets or sidewalks of said town for the purpose of regulating
traffic.
      (4)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this division (A)
shall on conviction thereof be fined not less than $1, nor more than $25 for
each offense.
   (B)   (1)   Portions of the streets constituting the right-of-way of State
Highway No 17, when constructed and improved, shall remain through streets; the
Board of Trustees acknowledges the right of the State Department of Highways to
place signs and warnings at points selected by the Department for the purpose
of informing the traveling public that the portions of the streets are through
streets and for the purpose of requiring such stops and speeds and other
traffic controls as may be necessary to protect the traveling public in the use
of said portions of the streets. No commercial activity or encroachment shall
be permitted within the right-of-way boundaries of said streets.
      (2)   On no portion of any state highway or connecting link within the
said town shall any person violate any of the provisions of C.R.S. Title 42,
nor any of the laws amending the same, or any of the rules or regulations
issued in pursuance thereof.
      (3)   Every person convicted of any violation of this division (B) shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
   (C)   When official signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of
vehicles shall stop or yield as required by said signs at every intersection
before entering any of the following streets or parts of streets.
Name of Street Portion affected (terminal limits)
Name of   Portion affected (terminal limits)
Street
          Intersection of First Street with Broadway Street
          Intersection of Second Street with Broadway
Broadway  Intersection of Third Street with Broadway
          Intersection of Fifth Street and Broadway
          Intersection of Sixth Street with Broadway
County    Intersection of Willow Drive with said County Road
Road at
east town Intersection of Haven Lane with said County Road
limit
County    Intersection of Broadway with said County Road (State Highway 136)
Road at   Intersection of Walnut Street with said County Road (State Highway 136) two stop
south     signs: one for east-bound traffic; one for west-bound traffic
town      Intersection of Willow Drive with said County Road (State Highway 136)
limits
(State    Intersection of County Road at east town limits with County Road at south town
Highway   limits (State Highway 136)
136)
First     Intersection of Mulberry Street and First Street
Street    Intersection of Walnut Street with First Street
Fourth    Intersection of Broadway with Fourth Street
Street    Intersection of Poplar Street with Fourth Street
          Intersection of Mulberry Street with Main Street
Main      Intersection of railroad right-of-way north of Main Street and Main Street
Street    (immediately east of Kelloff’s Market building and immediately west of La Jara
          Town Hall)
          Intersection of Broadway with Main Street to east town limits
Mulberry  Intersection of First Street with Mulberry Street
Street    Intersection of Third Street with Mulberry Street
          Intersection of Fourth Street with Mulberry Street
          Intersection of Granada Court with Poplar Street
Poplar    Intersection of First Street with Poplar Street
Street    Intersection of Main Street with Poplar Street
          Intersection of Third Street with Poplar Street
          Intersection of Fifth Street with Poplar Street
Richfield Intersection of Poplar Street with Richfield Road
Road      Intersection of Granada Court with Richfield Road
Second    Intersection of Mulberry Street with Second Street
Street
Spruce    North town limit to south town limit
Street
Third     Intersection of Mulberry with Third Street
Street
Walnut    Intersection of Second Street with Walnut Street
Street    Walnut Street from south of Main Street to south town limit
 
(Ord. 47, passed 4-8-1930; Ord. 126, passed - -1965; Ord. 1982-2, passed 11-10-
1982; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
SCHEDULE II. TEMPORARY STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of any school district which maintains a school
or schools in the town is hereby authorized to place temporary stop signs in
the streets adjoining, or within one block of, any school building or buildings
in said town during the hours when pupils are entering or leaving any such
building. Such signs shall have the words “Stop - School” or similar words
thereon in letters at least six inches in height. The drivers of all vehicles
shall come to a complete stop before passing any such sign when placed in any
such street.
   (B)   Any person who shall be found guilty of violating this schedule shall
be fined in a sum not less than $1, nor more than $15.
(Ord. 55, passed 9-10-1935)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   When official signs are erected giving notice thereof, the speed limit shall
be as specified for the following intersections or approaches thereto and upon
the following streets or portion thereof.
 
Name of Street or Intersection    Portion Affected (Terminal        Speed Limit
                                  Limits)
                                  From west town limit to
Main Street                       intersection of Spruce Street     20 mph
                                  (U.S. Highway 285)
                                  South of intersection of Third
                                  Street with Poplar Street to      30 mph
                                  south town limit
                                  The portion of County Road (State
                                  Highway 136) lying north of the
                                  center stripe thereof from the
Poplar Street (State Highway 136) intersection of said County Road
                                  with Broadway to just west of     30 mph
                                  intersection of said County Road
                                  with County Road at east town
                                  limit and immediately adjacent
                                  and contiguous with the Thomas
                                  Subdivision
Poplar Street                     From Main Street north to north   20 mph
                                  town limit
Spruce Street                     From north town limit (U.S.       40 mph
                                  Highway 285) to south town limit
                                  Main Street and Poplar Street
State Highway 136                 south of Main Street to just      25 mph
                                  south of intersection of Poplar
                                  Street with Third Street
 
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 11-10-1982)
SCHEDULE IV. TRAFFIC SIGNALS AUTHORIZED.
   Traffic-control signals of the type indicated herein are authorized to
regulate traffic at the following named locations:
 
Location                                    Type of Signal
One Main Street just east of the            Left turns at intersections only
intersection of Spruce and Main
The southeast corner of the intersection of Left turns at intersections only
Main Street and Walnut Street
The northwest corner of the intersection of Left turns at intersections only
Main Street and Walnut Street
All corners except the northeast corner of
the intersection of Main Street and Poplar  No U turn
Street
The southeast corner of the intersection of No U turn (applicable to east bound
Main Street and Walnut Street               traffic)
Center stripe of Main Street just east of
the intersection of Main Street with Spruce No U turn
Street
 
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 11-10-1982)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking
   
II.   Parking prohibited at all times
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking is hereby prohibited at those points along the portions of
streets constituting the right- of-way of State Highway No. 17 which are within
20 feet of any intersection; that parking when and where permitted shall be
parallel as provided by law for parallel parking; that upon the basis of
engineering and traffic investigations by the Department of Highways it has
been determined that a reasonable and true prima facia speed hour in the
business district and a minimum of 35 mph on the remaining portions, provided
that standard signs are erected giving notice of the authorized speed as
provided by C.R.S. 42-4-111 and laws amending same.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no parking whatsoever on any roadway or
contiguous shoulder of any state highway or connection link within the said
town during the times and at the places where snow removal operations are in
progress.
      (2)   There shall be no piling of snow from parking lots or other private
off-street areas on to the highway.
   (C)   Every person convicted of any violation of this schedule shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Ord. 126, passed - -1965; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   When official signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time park a vehicle upon any of the following described streets or parts of
streets.
 
Name of Portion affected (terminal limits)
Street
Spruce  The portion of Spruce Street lying west of the center stripe thereof and
Street  immediately adjacent and in front of Harvey’s Sinclair Station, said portion
(U.S.   more particularly described as the west portion of U.S. Highway 285 from the
Highway intersection of Main Street north approximately 100 feet
285)
Spruce  The portion of Spruce Street lying east of the center stripe thereof from the
Street  intersection of Main Street and Spruce Street to the first eastbound-westbound
        alley lying south of Main Street
Spruce  The portion of Spruce Street lying west of the center stripe thereof from the
Street  intersection of Fourth Street and Spruce Street to the south town limit
 
(Ord. 1982-2, passed 11-10-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions and terms
   
90.02   Rabies control
   
90.03   Reporting dog bites
   
90.04   Dog license
   
90.05   Dogs running at large
   
90.06   Impound generally
   
90.07   Notice of knowledge violation
   
90.08   Dog pound
   
90.09   Maximum number of dogs
   
90.10   Safety provisions
   
90.11   Prohibited animals
   
90.12   Poultry and rabbits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Leaving behind a dog alone or permitting the dog to be deserted
in circumstances which would cause the dog to fend for itself and have no human
to control or to take care of it. A person commits the crime of dog ABANDONMENT
if the person, knowingly, unknowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence
leaves a dog at a location without providing minimum care and control of the
dog.
   DOG. Any animal of the canine species, regardless of sex.
   DOG, CASTRATED MALE. Any male dog on which alternative surgery of the
genital organs has been performed by a licensed veterinarian so that such dog
is no longer capable of reproducing.
   DOG, FEMALE. Any dog of the female gender on which no alternative surgery of
the genital organs has been performed.
   DOG, MALE. Any dog of masculine gender, not castrated.
   DOG, SPAYED FEMALE. Any female dog on which an ovariectomy or
ovarohysterectomy has been performed by a licensed veterinarian.
   HARBORING. The occupant of any premises on which a dog is kept or to which
it customarily returns for food and care is presumed to be HARBORING or keeping
the dog within the meaning of this chapter.
   OWNER. Every person in possession of or who harbors or keeps any dog or who
shall suffer any dog to remain about his or her premises.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under control of the
owner or an authorized person, either by leash, chain or cord not to exceed ten
feet in length. A dog within the automobile or other vehicle of its owner shall
be deemed to be upon the owner’s premises.
   VACCINATION, INOCULATION or VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of the
dog with vaccine approved by the State Department of Health for use in the
prevention of rabies.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog that inflicts unprovoked bites or otherwise attacks any
person, either on public or private property; acts in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, or in apparent attitude of attack; approaches any person in such manner
when said dog is upon the streets, sidewalks or any public ground or place
within the town. Any dog that bites or attacks a person who is unlawfully
trespassing upon, breaking into or otherwise destroying or defacing its owner’s
property shall be deemed to be provoked within the meaning of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 90.02 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Vaccinations. Every person owning or harboring a dog five months and
one day of age or older for 30 or more days shall have such dog vaccinated
against rabies with an approved vaccine by a licensed veterinarian. Such
vaccination shall be performed immediately following such acquisition or if a
puppy upon reaching the age of five months and one day. All rabies vaccinations
must be performed by a licensed veterinarian, licensed by the state and all
appropriate license tags must be attached to the dog’s collar and worn by the
dog at all times. In addition, the owner or harborer of said dog must retain
all appropriate paper work in regards to the rabies vaccination, with date of
vaccination and signed by the aforementioned veterinarian.
   (B)   Certificate of vaccination.
      (1)   Upon vaccination, the veterinarian administering the vaccine shall
execute and furnish to the owner of the dog, as evidence thereof, a certificate
of vaccination.
      (2)   The veterinarian shall retain a duplicate copy. Such certificate
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or harborer
of the inoculated dog;
         (b)   The date of the inoculation;
         (c)   The type of vaccine used;
         (d)   The year and series number of the rabies tag; and
         (e)   The breed, age, color and sex of the inoculated dog.
   (C)   Rabies tags. Concurrent with the issuance and delivery of the
certificate of vaccination referred to in division (B) above, the owner of the
dog shall attach to the collar or harness of the vaccinated dog, a metal tag,
serially numbered and bearing the year of issuance and the name of the
jurisdiction of the state.
   (D)   Duplicate tags. In the event of loss or destruction of the original
rabies tag provided in division (C) above, the owner of the dog shall obtain a
duplicate tag from the veterinarian issuing the original tag.
   (E)   Designation of qualified person. All veterinarians who are duly
registered and licensed as such by the state and who also have an established
practice within the state are hereby designated as authorized to vaccinate dogs
against rabies and to execute certificates of vaccination as provided by law.
   (F)   Proof. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or harbors any dog
to fail or refuse to exhibit his or her copy of the certificate of vaccination
upon demand to any person charged with enforcement of this chapter.
   (G)   Dog is of such age that it cannot be vaccinated. In the event that a
dog is of such age that it cannot be vaccinated prior to obtaining a license,
the owner shall obtain from a veterinarian, qualified and authorized to
vaccinate dogs against rabies, a statement that such dog is not of age to be
vaccinated and stating that when such dog may be vaccinated, and the owner
shall present satisfactory evidence to the Town Clerk that said dog has been so
vaccinated within ten days after the date certified by said veterinarian.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 REPORTING DOG BITES.
   (A)   Duty to report. Any person having knowledge of a dog bite shall
immediately report the incident to the Police Department of the town or to the
Public Health Veterinary Section of the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Quarantine of dogs. Any dog who has bitten a person shall be observed
for a period of ten days, from the date of the bite. The procedure and place of
observation shall be designated by the Town Manager. Confinement shall be in
the town’s designated pound. Such confinement shall be at the expense of the
owner. Stray dogs whose owners cannot be located shall be confined in the
town’s designated pound. The owner of any dog that has been reported as having
inflicted a bite on any person shall on demand produce said dog for quarantine
as prescribed in this section. Refusal to produce said dog constitutes a
violation of this section, and each day of such refusal shall constitute a
separate and individual violation.
   (C)   Removal of dogs from quarantine. It shall be unlawful for any person
to remove from any place of isolation or quarantine any dog which has been
isolated or quarantined as authorized, without the consent of the impounding
authority.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOG LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses generally.
      (1)   All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the town
shall be licensed and registered annually on or before January 1 of each year,
and each owner shall annually pay to the Town Clerk, for the use and benefit of
the town, the following license fees:
 
Female dogs         $15
Male dogs           $15
Spayed female dogs  $5
Castrated male dogs $5
 
      (2)   The owner shall state at the time of application for a license, and
upon printed forms provided for such purposes by the town, his or her name and
address, telephone number and the name, breed, color, sex and whether such dog
has been spayed or castrated, as is the case may be, for each dog owned or kept
by him or her.
   (B)   License expiration. All dog licenses issued hereunder shall expire
December 31 of each year, and the full amount shall be paid for any fraction of
the licensing year if the dog has been kept or harbored by a resident of the
town.
   (C)   License displayed. The license tag shall be attached to a collar,
harness or other device and shall be worn with the rabies tag by the licensed
dog at all times, and shall not be removed from any dog by an unauthorized
person. The original dog license receipt and rabies vaccination certificate
shall be retained by the owner or harborer for inspection by any person charged
with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Rabies vaccination. No dog shall be licensed without proof of rabies
vaccination as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   False and stolen documents. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make use of, or have in his or her possession or under his or her control, a
stolen, counterfeit or other form issued in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   Transferability. Dog licenses are not transferable and it shall be
unlawful for any person to attach any license or rabies tag to any dog other
than the dog for which such tag was already issued.
   (G)   Nonapplicability of provisions. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the town,
nor to certified service dogs, properly trained to assist persons with
disabilities, when such dogs are actually being used by persons with
disabilities for the purpose of aiding them; provided however, if a dog whose
owner is a nonresident shall remain in the town more than 30 days, such dog
shall be licensed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or harborer of any dog in the town
to permit the same to run at large within the town. A dog shall be deemed to be
running at large when off or away from the premises of the owner, possessor or
keeper thereof and not under the control of such owner, possessor or harborer
or his or her agent, servant or a member of his or her immediate family, either
by leash, cord, chain, not more than ten feet in length.
   (B)   Female dogs in heat. It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of
any female dog to permit the same to create a nuisance by attracting other dogs
to the premises, and the same is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. If,
after notice by the Police Department, the owner or harborer of the said female
dog, the Police Department may take up and impound the said female dog and the
said female dog shall not be released from impoundment unless the owner or
harborer establishes that he or she has the proper facilities for caring for
and confining the said female dog.
   (C)   Nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner or keeper to harbor,
maintain or permit on any lot, parcel of land or premises under his or her
control any dog which by any sound or cry shall disturb the peace and comfort
of the inhabitants of the neighborhood or interfere with any person in the
reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   (D)   Running on owner’s premises. The provisions of this chapter do not
prohibit dogs from running at large on the premises of the owner or person
having charge of such dog.
   (E)   Abandonment of dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to abandon any dog within the town, or cause such to be done.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUND GENERALLY.
   (A)   Impound generally. It shall, be lawful for all police officers and
such other persons duly authorized by the Town Manager to impound any dog which
is not wearing proper license and rabies tags as herein provided, or any dog
which is running at large and is not under leash control, or any dog which they
reasonably feel to be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
whether such dog is wearing a dog tag or not. It shall be lawful for the police
officer or any person duly authorized to impound dogs to go upon private
property for the purpose of catching any dog to be impounded. Any person
authorized to capture and impound a dog under the provisions of the chapter is
authorized to use such means as are reasonably necessary to capture such dog;
provided, however, that tranquilizer guns or other tranquilizing devices shall
be used only as a last resort when a dog cannot be safely caught and impounded
because of its dangerous or vicious propensities, such dog may be summarily
slain.
   (B)   Notice to owner or harborer of dog. Upon the impounding of any dog it
shall be the duty of the person impounding such dog to notify the owner
thereof, if known. If the owner is not known, there shall be posted at the
bulletin board of the Town Hall, for a period of not less than five days, a
notice containing a description of the dog impounded.
   (C)   Procedure for release of vicious dog when complaint has been filed;
authority of Municipal Judge to order destruction of dog. If a vicious dog
complaint has been filed in the Municipal Court of the town against the owner
or harborer of any impounded dog for a violation of this chapter, then such dog
shall not be released from impoundment except on order from the Municipal
Judge. In addition to any penalties which may be provided for in this chapter,
for a violation of this chapter, the Municipal Judge shall require such owner
or harborer of the said dog to pay the fees herein provided for in this section
as well as all fees that pertain to the boarding of such dog, and shall have
the authority, upon making a finding that such dog constitutes a clear and
present danger to the citizens of the community, to order that such dog be
destroyed in a humane manner by a licensed veterinarian.
   (D)   Disposal of dog whose owner or harborer cannot be located. If a
complaint has not been filed in Municipal Court because the owner or harborer
of an impounded dog is not known or cannot be located and such dog has not been
claimed within five days from the date of impoundment, not counting the first
day of impoundment, the dog may be destroyed in any humane manner by a licensed
veterinarian or it may be put up for adoption only to persons not residing in
the city limits of the town by an approved pound authorized by the Town
Manager.
   (E)   Redemption fees. Any owner or harborer of a dog desiring to redeem
such dog from the pound shall pay the town the sum of $20 per day as an
impoundment fee, but not including the day of impounding. No dog shall be
released from the pound until the owner shall have paid all charges for
impounding the dog, the additional charges for maintaining the dog and until
the dog has been licensed, registered and vaccinated in accordance with this
chapter.
   (F)   Confinement of certain dogs. There shall be no release of any vicious
dog unless suitable provisions are made for it by its owner to protect the
public against these propensities, and no female dog in heat shall be released
unless the owner has facilities for caring for and confining such dog.
   (G)   Release upon compliance with provisions of chapter. It is the duty of
the town to release any dog from the pound of the town upon receipt of
satisfactory proof of ownership thereof, upon payment of any fee due to the
town, and upon presentation of proof of vaccination for rabies and proper
licensing and registration of such dog in accordance with this chapter. Any dog
that is not picked up by the harborer or the registered owner of said dog after
five days, the dog shall be considered abandoned and will be placed for
adoption. The only exceptions to this rule shall be if the dog is waiting for a
court date under the vicious dog rule, division (F) above.
   (H)   Unlawful release from impoundment. It shall be unlawful for any person
to release any dog from impoundment except in the manner provided for in this
chapter and upon the payment of the required fee, or for any person to enter
upon the premises where the dogs are impounded except by the permission of and
while accompanied by a person duly authorized to perform official duties under
this chapter.
   (I)   Abandoned dog. All dogs held by the designated pound for a period of
more than five days that are not redeemed by the owner or harborer are
considered to be abandoned and may be put up for adoption, but not to any
resident of the town.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NOTICE OF KNOWLEDGE VIOLATION.
   Notice of knowledge of violation of this chapter is not necessary for
prosecution of the owner or harborer. For the purpose of prosecution for
violation of this chapter, it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a
conviction, to prove notice or knowledge on the part of the owner or harborer
of the dog in question that such dog was violating any of the provisions of
this chapter at the time and place charged, it being the purpose and intent of
this chapter to impose strict liability upon the owner or harborer of any dog
for the actions, conduct and condition of the dog.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 90.08 DOG POUND.
   A suitable dog pound shall be provided by the town, within or without the
city limits. All dogs that are detained for whatever reason shall be
immediately transported to (or done as soon as applicable) to the appointed
pound or shelter for the purpose of boarding and caring for any dog impounded
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 90.09 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS.
   (A)   The maximum number of dogs at any one residence shall be limited to
three per residence. Any additional dogs will be assessed an additional cost as
set by this chapter.
   (B)   Puppies under the age of five months shall be considered exempt from
this provision; however after the age of five months and one day they shall be
deemed to be of such an age to be required to have a license and all applicable
vaccinations that pertain to other provisions in this chapter as well as to be
considered in the maximum number of dogs per residence.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 SAFETY PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct the police officer, pound master or any other person duly authorized
to perform official duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, swine, sheep, or goats shall be housed or
maintained within the limits of the town, nor within a distance of 50 feet from
the limits of the town.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-7-1954)
§ 90.12 POULTRY AND RABBITS.
   All poultry and rabbits kept within the limits of the town shall be properly
housed in clean, well ventilated pens or houses free from vermin or disease. No
poultry or rabbits shall be permitted to run at large within the limits of the
town.
(Ord. 107, passed 9-7-1954)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
according to the following:
Violation Fine
Violation                                                                        Fine
Failure to have a dog vaccinated against rabies                                  $40
Failure to place collar and registration tag upon the dog                        $20
Failure to produce the dog reported as having inflicted a bite                   $200
Failure to register and license the dog with the Town Clerk                      $40
Keeping or harboring a dog which is a nuisance                                   $100
Over limit of 3 dogs per residence per dog                                       $25
Permitting a dog to run at large
   First offense                                                              $50
   Second offense within a 12-month period                                    $100
   Third offense within a 12-month period                                     $250
      The Municipal Judge shall, upon conviction for the third time of any
person on the charge of permitting a dog to run at large within a 12-month
period, order the dog to be destroyed as a public nuisance or order the dog to
be set for adoption by anyone except a resident of the town
Unlawful removal of dog from town pound                                          $500
Vicious dog
                                                                                 A fine
   Keeping or harboring a vicious dog in violation of the provisions of this  not to
chapter as herein provided                                                       exceed
                                                                                 $500
   Second offense and all subsequent offenses for keeping or harboring a vicio$1,000
dog
                                                                                 A fine
Violation of any other provision of this chapter not specifically set forth      not to
above                                                                            exceed
                                                                                 $500
 
(Ord. 2014-7, passed 11-13-2014; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.00   Legislative findings and statement of purpose
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Declared nuisances
   
91.03   Abatement of nuisances
§ 91.00 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is necessary and desirable in the public interest to enact a nuisance
Chapter of the La Jara Municipal Code in order to abate nuisances by
eliminating conditions on property in the Town which continually and repeatedly
increase blight, cause disease, annoyance to neighbors, impair quality of life
and depress property values.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BRUSH. Voluntary growth of bushes, limbs, shrubs, sage, and similar
vegetation which is growing, or has grown out of place, or uncontrolled,
whether live or dead, and includes all cuttings from trees, bushes, and
shrubbery.
   COMMON LAW NUISANCE. Any nuisance which has been declared to be such by
state courts or statutes or known as such at common law.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, tractor, motorcycle or self-
propelled vehicle which is in a condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or
partially dismantled, discarded, abandoned or unable to perform the functions
or purpose for which it was originally constructed. The existence of any of the
following conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is inoperable:
      (1)   Absence of an effective registration plate upon such vehicle.
      (2)   Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks,
chains or other supports.
      (3)   Absence of one (1) or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the
lawful operation of the vehicle upon the streets and highways.
   JUNK. means any old, used or secondhand materials of any kind, including,
without limitations, cloth, rags, clothing, furniture, refrigerators or
freezers, used motor vehicles or the parts thereof or therefrom; electronic and
communication equipment, machinery, equipment and parts thereof, which are no
longer in use; any used building material, boards or other lumber, cement
blocks, bricks, or other building material; tractors, trucks, motorsports,
machinery, motorcycles, or automobiles; or any other Chapter or thing commonly
known and classified as junk.
   LITTER. The scattering or dropping of rubbish, trash, or other matter,
organic, inorganic, or mineral.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. A substance, act, occupation, condition, or use of
property, which is of such nature and continues for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public.
      (2)   In any way renders the public insecure in life or in the use of
property.
      (3)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, or other
public way.
      (4)   Offend the public decency.
   TRASH. Any grass clippings, leaves, hay, straw, manure, shavings, ashes,
toppings, twigs, and includes garbage, rubbish, all rejected waste food, meat,
vegetables, fruit, organic and inorganic matter, tin cans, plastic containers,
polyurethane, manure, shavings, ashes, clippings, twigs, and all matter of
waste substances, glass, paper, boxes, bottles, discarded building materials,
sweepings, and other like materials.
   WEED. An unsightly, useless, troublesome or injurious growing herbaceous
plant, and includes all rank vegetable growth which exhales unpleasant and
noxious odors, and plants classified as noxious weeds by the State of Colorado
or Conejos County, native and non-native vegetation which poses an unsightly
appearance or a fire hazard.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 91.02 DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The following acts, results, and conditions or use of property are declared
to be nuisances:
   (A)   Accumulation to constitute nuisances. Whenever there exists in or upon
any lot or piece of ground within the limits of the Town any damaged
merchandise, litter, trash, rubbish, garbage, wrecked car, inoperable vehicles,
or other wrecked vehicles, or an accumulation of junk vehicles or junk of any
type upon any private or public property, except in areas specifically zoned in
Chapter 153 of this Code for said purposes or otherwise designated by the Town
for such purposes, the existence of any such material or items shall constitute
a nuisance and shall be a violation of this Chapter.
   (B)   Violations of building and zoning regulations. It is unlawful and
constitutes a public nuisance for any person to maintain any property, building
or any other structure in the Town in a condition which is in violation of the
building code or the Zoning Ordinance of the Town.
   (C)   Trash thrown in street, vacant lot, etc. No trash, rubbish, or garbage
of any kind or nature whatsoever or any other material shall be thrown or swept
into any street, sidewalk, gutter, sewer intake, alley, vacant lot or other
property. It is unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited or cast into any
street, alley or public place or upon any private property, without the consent
of the owner or occupant thereof, any rubbish, trash, handbill, circular,
paper, inflammable substance or filth. Violation of this subsection shall
constitute a nuisance.
   (D)   Responsibility and removal of trash or rubbish on residential,
commercial, and industrial premises.
      (1)   It is the duty of every person, whether owner, lessee or renter of
any vacant lot, building or premises, including any place of business, hotel,
restaurant, dwelling house, apartment, tenement or any other establishment, at
all times to maintain the premises in a clean and orderly condition, permitting
no deposit or accumulation of trash, rubbish or materials contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter, other than those ordinarily attendant upon the use
for which such premises are legally intended. All plaster, broken concrete,
bricks, cinder blocks, stones, wood, roofing material, wire or metal binding,
sacks or loose discarded or unused material of any kind resulting from the
wrecking, constructing or reconstructing of any room, basement, wall, fence,
sidewalk or building shall be promptly removed or discarded in such a manner as
not to be scattered about by the wind or otherwise, and as soon as possible be
removed by the person responsible for such work. Such person shall be held
responsible for any scattering of such refuse upon adjacent property.
Fermenting, putrefying, odiferous or unsightly garbage, rubbish or trash dumped
in the open or uncollected at the proper time due to failure of any owner or
occupant of property within the Town limits to comply with the terms of this
Chapter, or any other rule or regulation under this Chapter, is a nuisance and
a violation of this Chapter.
      (2)   Discarded rubbish, including automobile parts, stoves, furniture,
and junkyard refuse shall be removed periodically from business establishments
by the proprietor so that the premises are clean and orderly at all times. Silt
and similar deposits from automobile wash racks shall be removed by the
establishment creating such deposit. Any accumulation of rubbish that is highly
explosive or flammable which might endanger life or property shall be removed
from the Town or to such places as approved by the Chief of Police. Such
removal shall be effected by the establishment responsible therefor. Violation
of this subsection shall constitute a nuisance.
      (3)   Vehicle regulation for garbage removal. All vehicles used for the
collection and removal of garbage shall be fitted with a good and substantial
watertight tank with a close-fitting top to prevent the escape or spilling of
any of the contents therefrom. All vehicles used for the collection and removal
of rubbish or trash shall be so equipped as to prevent the escape or spilling
of any rubbish or trash. All such vehicles shall be thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected at least twice each week. No vehicle shall remain for a longer time
at any one (1) place, on public streets or alleys, than is necessary for
loading all garbage, rubbish and trash.
      (4)   Garbage transport permits and containers. Transporting of garbage,
manure, trash, leaves, grass, or tree limbs upon any street in this Town in a
vehicle which is not fitted with a tightly enclosed cover thereon so as to
prevent any portion of such refuse to be scattered or thrown into such street
is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It is a violation of this Chapter and a
public nuisance for any person to haul or transport for hire over any street or
alley within the Town any garbage, rubbish, or trash without first obtaining a
permit to do so, or in any vehicle not inspected and approved by the Town
Manager; to keep or maintain any garbage can or other receptacle for garbage in
an unsanitary condition or in such manner as to be exposed to flies; to permit
any garbage can or other receptacle for garbage, rubbish or trash to remain
unscreened or uncovered so that the contents thereof may be dragged out by dogs
or other animals, or blown out or scattered by wind.
   (E)   Stagnant water, contaminated or impure well or cistern.
      (1)   Ditches, sloughs, and man-made water holding devices containing
stagnant water, which may provide a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other
insects, are deemed a nuisance.
      (2)   Excavations exceeding five (5) feet in depth, cisterns and wells or
excavations used for storage of water are declared to be a public nuisance
unless the same are adequately covered with a locked lid or other covering
device weighing at least sixty (60) pounds or are securely fenced with a solid
fence to a height of at least six (6) feet.
      (3)   Any well or cistern on any property within the limits of the Town,
whenever a chemical analysis or other proper test at the location of the same
shows that the water of the well or cistern is probably contaminated, impure or
unwholesome, is deemed a nuisance.
      (4)   Every owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or other person in possession
of any premises or any part thereof, upon which there is located a well
containing contaminated, impure or unwholesome water, must abandon the use of
the same and cause the same to be filled with earth or such other material as
may be designated by the Town Manager or Chief of Police; failure to do so is
deemed a nuisance.
   (F)   Contamination of property, public streets, streams, and water supply.
      (1)   The throwing or depositing of any animal or vegetable substance or
both, any dead animal, excrement upon any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or
public or private grounds shall be deemed a nuisance.
      (2)   The accumulation of any stale, putrid or stinking fat or grease or
other stale matter on any property in the Town is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
      (3)   The throwing or depositing in the Town of anything specified in
Subsection (a) above, or any other substance that would tend to have a
polluting effect, into the water of any stream, ditch, pond, well, cistern,
trough, or other body of water, whether artificially or naturally created, or
so near any such place as to be likely to pollute the water, shall be deemed a
nuisance.
   (G)   Sewer inlet. Any Chapter or materials accumulated in any storm drain,
sewer, sewer line, inlet, system or privy vault that shall have a sewer
connection, which causes or might cause such storm drain, sewer line, sewer
system, inlet or privy vault to plug, back up, or become noxious or offensive
to others or injurious to public health, are hereby declared to be nuisances.
   (H)   Discharge of noxious or hazardous liquids.
      (1)   The discharge out of or from any house or place of foul or noxious
liquid or substance of any kind whatsoever into or upon any adjacent ground or
lot or into any street, alley or public place in the Town is hereby declared a
nuisance.
      (2)   The discharge of any flammable or hazardous liquid or substance
onto any lot, residence, building or other property in the Town in such a
manner as to constitute a hazard or danger to persons or property is also
hereby declared a nuisance.
   (I)   Accumulation or storage of weeds, etc.
      (1)   It is unlawful and constitutes a nuisance for any person to pile,
store or allow to accumulate any weeds, manure, or animal feces on any lot or
real estate within the Town in such quantities which could harbor and conceal
harmful vermin, rodents, or insects, or which is unsafe, unhealthy, or
unsightly to persons or the public.
      (2)   Permitting to grow or remain declared nuisance. Every person being
the owner, occupant, tenant or in control of any lot or parcel of land within
the Town, or person having a contractual relationship with the owner which
allows him or her to list the property for sale, who permits or allows the
growth, decay or presence of chico, sagebrush, greasewood, thistles, weeds,
noxious weeds, or other waste vegetation or growth of any grass or native
vegetation in excess of eight (8) inches in height on any premises, or in to
the alleys, sidewalk and parking areas appurtenant to the property, is guilty
of creating, continuing and suffering a nuisance to exist. Property owners,
lessees and persons in possession of any property in the Town shall be
responsible for maintaining their property (and any adjacent property of the
Town which may be appurtenant to the rear, front and side of such property,
including to the center of alleyways, front and side islands and other property
to the curb line of the street) in compliance with this Section.
   (J)   Handbills, posters, and placards. Any sign, handbill, poster, placard
or painted or printed matter which is stuck, posted, or pasted upon any public
right-of-way, any public or private residence or other structure or any power
pole, fence, or live tree without the permission of the owner, agent or
occupant of the residence, structure, power pole, fence, live tree, or right-
of-way shall be deemed a nuisance. Any permitted signs, handbills, posters,
placard or painted or printed matter shall be removed within three (3) days
after expiration of the advertised event by any person placing or responsible
for placing the same.
   (K)   Accumulation of excessive firewood. Accumulation of an excessive
amount of firewood or kindling at or upon a lot or residence in such a manner
as to cause a fire hazard, unsightly annoyance, or depreciation of neighboring
property values to others is deemed a nuisance. Such firewood shall not be
stored on public rights-of-way.
   (L)   Snow and tree debris removal required. It is the duty of the owner,
tenant or occupant of any lot, block or parcels of land, or any part thereof,
situated within the Town to clean the snow or tree debris off the sidewalk
abutting thereon within twenty-four (24) hours after the fall of such snow or
other tree debris. Such snow or tree debris accumulation is declared to be a
nuisance; and whoever is owning, renting or occupying any such premises and
fails or neglects to clean the snow or tree debris from the sidewalk is guilty
of a violation of this Chapter.
   (M)   Dead animal removal. The body of any animal which has died, and which
is undisposed of after twelve (12) hours after death is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be the responsibility of every owner, lessee and/or person
in possession of such property to promptly dispose of said animal. In addition,
any person placing said animal on a Town right-of-way or other Town property
shall be considered to have violated this Chapter.
   (N)   Exposure or conveyance of anything prejudicial to health. It is
unlawful and constitutes a nuisance for any person to expose, convey, place or
cause to be exposed, conveyed, or placed in any street or public place any
substance, animal, or thing to the prejudice of the public health.
   (O)   Burning, creating smoke or odors.
      (1)   It is unlawful and constitutes a nuisance for any person to create
smoke or odors from the burning of trash, leaves, weeds, refuse or other
material, which creates an annoyance to others.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, tenant, corporation, or entity
owning, occupying, or managing any lot, tract or parcel of land within the Town
to bum or allow the burning of rubbish, garbage or junk, grass, lawns, brush,
shrubs, limbs, or weeds on such property. Burning of irrigation ditches will
require a permit and acceptable plan of management approved by the Town Manager
and/or Code Enforcement Officer.
   (P)   Offensive businesses. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or
suffer upon his or her premises or to conduct upon any premises or property
within the Town, a business or establishment which fosters or maintains any
hazard or condition which is detrimental to the public health, morals, safety,
or welfare of the public, and the same is declared a nuisance.
   (Q)   Storage and keeping of junk.
      (1)   The keeping, storage, or collection of junk within the Town in
violation of this Chapter is a nuisance and is detrimental to the health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare of the citizens thereof.
      (2)   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds, for
the wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of
any kind; for the storing or leaving of worn out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, boats, airplanes, house trailers,
electronic equipment, appliances or machinery of any kind or of any parts
thereof; or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places essentially interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or are unsightly,
are hereby declared to be nuisances.
      (3)   The keeping, storage or collection of junk shall not be deemed a
nuisance when and if the same is kept, stored, or collected in completely
enclosed buildings as long as it does not result in the structure becoming a
“dangerous building”. This Chapter shall not apply to any properly zoned
premises where a licensed motor vehicle dealer or a farm implement dealer
conducts his or her business as long as such premises does not otherwise become
a public nuisance.
   (R)   Parking vehicles, motorized equipment, and machinery on residential
lots (lawns).
      (1)   The parking of vehicles, motorcycles, motorized equipment, and
machinery upon front yard setbacks of residential properties or in public
rights-of-way between street, curb, and owner’s property line (except for
constructed driveways) contributes to the depreciation of property values, and
constitutes blight is prohibited; the same is hereby deemed a nuisance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this Section, constructed driveway is defined to
mean an off- street parking area built of asphalt, concrete, rock or gravel
that occupies no more than forty percent (40%) of the front setback area.
Driveways built of rock or gravel shall be not less than three (3) inches deep
and have an outer border to contain the material.
      (3)   No vehicles shall be parked in such a manner as to obstruct
motorists’ view of street intersections or pose any other driver safety.
   (S)   Junked/inoperable vehicles or airplanes on private property.
      (1)   Inoperable vehicles. It is unlawful for any person or agent, either
as owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of any lot or land within the Town, to
park, store or deposit or permit to be parked, stored, or deposited thereon an
inoperable vehicle unless such vehicle is enclosed in a garage or other
building. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any person or agent
with one (1) vehicle inoperable for a period of less than thirty (30)
consecutive days, or to any person who is conducting a business enterprise.
      (2)   It is a nuisance for any person who is the owner of any vehicle or
the owner of any property, or any person who is in charge or in control of any
property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, to permit or
allow any junked, discarded or partially wrecked vehicle or airplane, or parts
thereof, to remain on the property longer than ten (10) days; provided that
this Section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle or parts of a vehicle in
an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in an area zoned for vehicle repair or a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained for impounded vehicles by the Town.
      (3)   It is the duty of the Police Department and Code Enforcement
Officer to require the owner or agent of the owner of any premises whereon is
situated any partially dismantled, junked, abandoned, discarded, or partially
wrecked vehicle or airplane, or parts thereof, to remove the same within ten
(10) days.
      (4)   For the purposes of this Section, the tenant, occupant, or lessee
shall be deemed agent of the owner of the premises.
      (5)   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent of the
owner so notified to properly dispose of the vehicle or airplane, or parts
thereof, within the time limits set forth in Paragraph (2) above, the Police
Department or Code Enforcement Officer is authorized and empowered to remove
the same at the expense of the owner or agent of the owner, who shall be
assessed said administrative expenses of the Town.
      (6)   In case the owner or agent of the owner of such property fails to
pay such bill within thirty (30) days after the same has been rendered, the
Police Department or Code Enforcement Officer shall report the same to the Town
Manager who shall cause assessment of the costs against the property in
question.
   (T)   Abandoned, wrecked, and junked vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the Town, and no person
shall leave any vehicle or airplane at any place within the Town or upon Town
owned property for such times and under such circumstances as to cause the
vehicle reasonably to appear to be abandoned.
      (2)   In the event of abandonment of a vehicle or airplane on property
within the Town or upon Town owned property other than public rights of-way,
the owner of the property and/or person in possession, shall cause the property
to be removed from the Town or placed in a secure, closed structure. Any third-
party may notify the Police Department of the existence of the abandoned items
in violation of this subsection.
   (U)   Broken windows in vacant dwellings. All broken windows and open doors
in a vacant dwelling shall be replaced or covered in a manner preventing entry
by the owner or agent within seventy-two (72) hours after notice is given by
the Chief of Police, his or her designated officer or the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (V)   Drug houses and illegal activity.
      (1)   Any building, dwelling, structure, trailer, mobile home, vehicle or
property utilized or maintained for, or containing the illegal cultivation,
storage, use, sale, transfer or storage of, illegal drugs, controlled
substance, illegal quantities of marijuana, illegal weapons, utilized for
prostitution, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, facilitation
of gang activity, facilitation of criminal activity and/or juvenile delinquency
or utilized in a manner to hinder the enforcement of the criminal law or Town
ordinances, is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be subject to
abatement, punishment, and seizure or forfeiture as provided in this Section or
by State law.
      (2)   Any person who owns, manages, or controls any premises referenced
in Subsection (1) and who encourages or permits such illegal activity to occur
or continue on such premises or fails to implement reasonable and warranted
abatement measures by summary termination of such nuisances, upon notice by the
Town Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or a Town Police Officer, shall be
deemed to have violated this Section and shall be subject to the penalties
herein provided.
      (3)   The nuisances described herein shall be subject to abatement as
provided in this Chapter.
      (4)   In addition, the properties described in this Section shall be
subject to seizure and forfeiture by the Town upon having been declared a
public nuisance and after notice and hearing and upon order of the District
Court or a Court of competent jurisdiction.
   (W)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the general penalty as provided in §
10.99 of the La Jara Municipal Code, in addition of the provisions for
abatement of nuisances in this Chapter.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   Prohibition of nuisances. No person, being the owner, agent or
occupant of or having under his or her control, any building, lot, premises or
unimproved real estate within the limits of the Town, shall maintain or allow
any nuisance to be or remain therein.
   (B)   Ascertaining nuisances. Whenever the pursuit of any trade, business or
the manufacturing or maintenance of any substance or condition of things is,
upon investigation, considered by the Town Manager or Code Enforcement Officer
dangerous to the health of any of the inhabitants of the Town, or is declared a
nuisance by this Chapter, the same shall be considered a nuisance and shall be
abated.
   (C)   Filing a complaint. Complaints of nuisances may be made to the Town
Manager, Chief of Police, a police officer, Town Clerk, Mayor, Town Board of
Trustees, Land Use Administrator, or Code Enforcement Officer. Whenever
possible, any complaint shall state the nature of the nuisance; the location,
including street address; the name of the owner, agent or occupant of the
building or lot, if known; and the name and address of the complainant.
   (D)   Responsibility of owner, occupant, or agent.
      (1)   Where a nuisance exists upon private property and is the outgrowth
of the usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the owner thereof or
his or her agents are declared the author thereof; but where any nuisance
arises from the unusual use to which such property may be put, or from any
business conducted thereon, the occupant shall also be deemed the author
thereof. Any person who, by himself or herself or through an agent, causes or
creates the same shall be deemed the author of the nuisance.
      (2)   In the event a nuisance must be abated by the Town, no provision of
this Section should be construed to relieve any property owner from any of the
provisions contained in this Chapter.
      (3)   The reasonable time for abatement shall not exceed fourteen (14)
days, unless it appears from the facts and circumstances that compliance could
not reasonably be made within fourteen (14) days or that a good faith attempt
at compliance is being made.
      (4)   Any officer or employee of the Town who is authorized under this
Chapter to abate any nuisance specified in this Chapter has authority to engage
the necessary assistance and incur the necessary expenses thereof. In any case
where a nuisance is to be abated by the Town, it is the duty of the authorized
person to employ such assistance and adopt such means as may be reasonably
necessary to effect abatement of the nuisance. It is also the duty of the Town
or any of its representatives to proceed in all abatement cases with due care
and without any unnecessary destruction of property unless the facts and
circumstances mandate a different result.
   (E)   Right of Entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Chapter, or whenever the Town Manager, Land Use
Administrator, Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of Police or police officer has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building, or upon any
premises, any condition which constitutes a nuisance under this Chapter, the
Town Manager, Land Use Administrator, Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of Police
or police officer may enter the building or premises at all reasonable times to
inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed on any of them; provided that,
if the building or premises are occupied, the person shall first present proper
credentials and demand entry. If the building or premises are unoccupied, he or
she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner and/or occupant or
other person having charge or control of the building or premises and, upon
locating the owner, occupant, or other person, shall present proper credentials
and demand entry.
      (2)   If entry is refused, the person shall give the owner and/or
occupant (or, if the owner and/or occupant cannot be located after a reasonable
effort, shall leave at the building or premises) twenty-four (24) hours’
written notice of intention to inspect. The notice given to the owner and/or
occupant or left on the premises, as designated in this Section, shall state
that the property owner has the right to refuse entry and that, in the event
entry is refused, inspection may be made only upon issuance of a search warrant
by the Municipal Judge or judge of any other court having jurisdiction, and
absence of refusal shall be deemed consent to entry.
      (3)   In the case of any nuisance involving a serious threat to public
safety or order, after the expiration of said twenty-four-hour period, the Town
Manager, Town Attorney, Chief of Police, Land Use Administrator, or any of them
may appear before the Municipal Judge and, upon showing of probable cause,
obtain a search warrant entitling him or her to enter the building or upon the
premises. Upon obtaining the search warrant such persons may enter into the
building or upon the premises using such reasonable force as may be necessary
to gain entry therein. Nothing contained in this Section is intended to negate
the authority of the officials described in this Section to enter any portion
of any property which is not posted or otherwise protected by the 4th Amendment
of the United States Constitution or for which entry has not been allowed in
order to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any owner and/or occupant of the building or
premises to resist reasonable force used by the Town Manager, Chief of Police
or Code Enforcement Officer acting pursuant to this Chapter.
   (F)   Abatement procedures and lien against property.
      (1)   The person responsible for any nuisance within the Town is liable
for and shall pay and bear all costs and expenses of the abatement of such
nuisance, which costs, and expenses may be collected by the Town in any action
at law, collected in connection with an action to abate a nuisance or assessed
against the property as provided in this Chapter.
      (2)   Except for nuisances requiring summary abatement, a notice shall be
sent to or served upon the person deemed responsible for the nuisance and shall
state that, if the nuisance is not abated within the time stated in the notice,
the cost of such abatement may be assessed as a lien against the property (such
notice describing the same) pursuant to the terms of this Chapter, together
with an additional fee as set by Town resolution for inspection and incidental
costs and an additional ten- percent assessment for costs of collection, and
collected in the same manner as real estate taxes against the property. The
notice may be mailed, posted on the property and/or served by any officer
directed or deputized to mail, post or serve the same. In causing notice to be
served, the Mayor, Chief of Police or Town Manager may authorize Town
officials, inspectors or any other appropriate Town employee to issue the
notice of abatement.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a statement from the Town Manager, the Town Clerk
shall mail a notice to the owner of the premises as shown by the tax roll, at
the address shown upon the tax rolls, by first-class mail, postage prepaid,
notifying the owner that work has been performed pursuant to this Chapter,
stating the date of performance and the nature of the work and demanding
payment of the costs thereof, as certified by the Town Manager, together with
the inspection/incidental costs fee and costs of collection fee in connection
therewith. The notice shall state that if the amount is not paid within thirty
(30) days of mailing the notice, it shall become an assessment on and a lien
against the property of the owner (such notice describing the same) and will be
certified as an assessment against the property together with the costs
described in this Section, and the assessment will be collected in the same
manner as a real estate tax upon the property.
      (4)   If, after the expiration of the period of time provided for in the
notice, or as extended, the nuisance is not abated, then the Town may abate the
nuisance and, if costs or expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Town in the
abatement or in connection with the abatement of the nuisance are not otherwise
collected, the Town Manager may thereafter certify to the Town Clerk the legal
description of the property upon which the work was performed, together with
the name of the owner thereof as shown by the tax rolls of the County, together
with a statement of the work performed, the date of performance and the costs
thereof.
      (5)   Certified abatement.
         (a)   If the Town Clerk does not receive payment within the period of
thirty (30) days following the mailing of the notice, the Town Clerk shall
certify to the County Treasurer the whole cost of the work and costs described
in this Section in connection therewith upon the lots and tracts of land upon
which the nuisance was abated.
         (b)   Each assessment shall be a lien against each lot or tract of
land until paid and shall have priority over other liens, except general taxes
and prior special assessments.
   (G)   Alternative procedure.
      (1)   When any person has responsibility for a nuisance, and the nuisance
exists or is found and the responsible person fails to abate the same after the
giving of the notice as provided for in this Chapter, or as extended, then the
Town Attorney may, as an alternative procedure, institute proceedings in the
Municipal Court or in a court of competent jurisdiction to obtain a judicial
determination that the nuisance exists, to abate the nuisance and to enjoin the
same, and for such other and further relief as may seem proper or necessary,
including but not limited to collections of expenses of abatement.
      (2)   Upon a judicial determination that a nuisance exists, the Town
Manager may be authorized to abate the nuisance or cause the same to be abated,
employing such forces and persons as may be necessary to abate the same,
including the employees of the Town, or by contract or otherwise. The Chief of
Police and all other Town officials and employees are authorized and directed
to render such assistance as may be required for the abatement of the nuisance
and in connection with the enforcement thereof.
   (H)   Emergencies; summary abatement.
      (1)   Whenever an emergency situation exists in relation to the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, the Town Manager, Fire
Chief, Chief of Police, authorized police officer, Code Enforcement Officer or
Land Use Administrator, upon a presentation of proper credentials or
identification (in the case of an occupied building or premises), may enter
into any building or upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the Town. In
an emergency situation, such person may use such reasonable force as may be
necessary to gain entry into the building or upon the premises.
      (2)   For the purposes of this Section, an emergency situation includes,
but is not limited to, any situation where there is imminent danger of loss of
life, limb and/or property or immediate danger to the public health or safety
and which cannot await abatement by other means available under this Chapter.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any owner and/or occupant of the building or
premises to resist reasonable force used by any authorized official acting
pursuant to this Chapter.
      (4)   Each and every nuisance mentioned, declared or defined by any
ordinance of the Town is prohibited and, depending upon the exigency of
circumstances, may be subject to summary abatement. The Mayor, Town Manager or
Chief of Police or Code Enforcement Officer is authorized, in his or her
discretion, to cause the same to be summarily abated in such manner as he or
she may direct. Assessment of costs and charges of summary abatement shall be
as provided in subsection (F) through (H) of this Section.
      (5)   Upon authorization by the Mayor, Town Manager or Chief of Police,
if any nuisance found to exist causes such imminent danger to life, limb,
property, or health as to require immediate abatement, any such nuisance may be
summarily abated by action of a police officer, the Town Manager, the Land Use
Administrator, or the Code Enforcement Officer as may be directed by the Chief
of Police, Mayor, or Town Manager.
   (I)   Cumulative remedies. No remedy provided herein shall be exclusive, but
the same shall be cumulative. The taking of any action under this Chapter,
including charge or conviction of a violation of this Chapter in the Municipal
Court, shall not preclude or prevent the taking of other action under the
provisions of this Chapter to abate or enjoin any nuisance found to exist.
   (J)   Concurrent remedies. Whenever a nuisance exists, no remedy provided
for herein shall be exclusive of any other charge or action and, when
applicable, the abatement provisions of this Chapter shall serve as and
constitute a concurrent remedy over and above any charge or conviction of any
municipal offense or any other provision of law. Any application of this
Chapter that is in the nature of a civil action shall not prevent the
commencement or application of any other charges brought under this Code or any
other provision of law.
   (K)   Abatement; penalty. Any person who is responsible for creating or
maintaining any nuisance as provided for in this Chapter may, in addition to
the civil penalties and costs provided herein, be punished in accordance with
the provisions of §
10.99 of this Municipal Code. Every person violating or contributing in any way
to the violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each day during which such violation continues and may be
punished for each such violation as provided in this Section.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire regulations
   
92.02   Fire limits
Uniform Fire Code
   
92.15   Adopted
   
92.16   Amendments and deletions
   
92.17   Code copies
Incineration of Trash
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Outside burning prohibited
   
92.32   Burning in outside incinerators
   
92.33   Exceptions
   
92.34   Unauthorized disposal of hazardous substances
   
92.35   Application
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any person shall willfully give or cause to be given or made a
false alarm of fire, every such person shall, on conviction thereof, be found
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whenever any hose of the Fire Department shall have been laid on any
street, alley or other highway, for the purpose of being used by the
Department, it shall not be lawful for any wagon, dray street railway car or
any other vehicle to pass over the same. The owner or driver of such, who shall
drive or cause the same to be driven over the said hose shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The fire truck and other fire apparatus or equipment of the town shall
have the right-of-way over all streets and alleys of the said town while
answering any fire alarm or proceeding to any fire.
   (D)   No person shall drive any automobile, or other vehicle in the same
direction as that in which any fire apparatus of the town may be proceeding
closer than 300 feet from such apparatus in answering a fire alarm, or is going
to a fire. This does not apply to the utility car used by said Department.
   (E)   All persons shall remain at least 15 feet distant from any fire
hydrant situated within one block of any fire or to which members of the Fire
Department have attached, or may attempt to attach any fire hose during the
progress of a fire. No person shall stand upon, or within three feet, of any
fire hose laid from a hydrant to a fire while such fire is in progress.
   (F)   Any members of the Police or Fire Department of the town, while
attending any fire within the said town, shall have authority to establish fire
lines and to order any and all persons to keep back of such line. When ordered
to do so by any member of the Fire and Police Departments of the town,
bystanders at such fire shall keep back of the lines so established.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle within ten
feet of any fire plug or hydrant, or in any way obstruct any approach to said
hydrant.
   (H)   When any fire alarm is sounded, all vehicles shall immediately pull up
to the curb and park said vehicles until the fire apparatus has passed.
(Ord. 60, passed 7-1-1941) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following define the fire limits of the town.
   (A)   All that portion of the town embraced within the following described
limits shall hereafter be known as, and be, the fire limits of said town, and
no building of any description shall hereafter be erected within said fire
limits unless the person or persons desiring to erect the same shall first
obtain permission from the Board of Trustees authorizing such erection: fire
limits shall embrace, to-wit, all of Blocks 14, 15, 22, 23 and 27.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter erected within the fire limits unless
the same shall be constructed in conformity with the following provisions.
      (1)   All outside part or individual walls shall be brick or stone or
adobe and walls fronting the street shall be of brick or stone or iron pillars
or adobe or any other fire-proof material.
      (2)   (a)   Brick walls shall be of less thickness than as follows:
            1.   One story building, eight inches; and
            2.   Two story building, 12 inches for the first story and eight
inches for the second story.
         (b)   Stone walls shall not be of less thickness than as follows:
            1.   One story building, 16 inches; and
            2.   Two story building, 18 inches for the first story and 12
inches for the second story.
         (c)   1.   Adobe walls shall not be of less thickness as follows:
               a.   One story building, 12 inches; and
               b.   Two story building, 18 inches for the first story and 12
inches for the second story.
            2.   All party walls shall extend at least 12 inches above the
roof.
         (d)   All buildings to have a substantial foundation.
      (3)   The ends of all joist beams and other timber on outside party walls
shall be separated from each other with stone or brick or adobe laid in mortar
or cement.
      (4)   All roofs shall be covered with iron, tin, slate or other fire-
proof material.
   (C)   (1)   No wooden building or part of any building within the fire
limits shall be raised, enlarged or removed to any place within said limits,
nor shall any wooden building be removed into the fire limits.
      (2)   A building with a wooden frame, the sides of which shall be covered
with sheet iron or other material shall be deemed a wooden building for the
purposes of this section and no person or persons shall make any stacks of hay,
straw or other combustible material within the fire limits or within 100 feet
of said limits unless written privilege be granted by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-7-1903) Penalty, see §
92.99
UNIFORM FIRE CODE
§ 92.15 ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to C.R.S. Title 31, Article 12, Part 4, there is hereby adopted as
the Fire Code of the town by reference thereto the Uniform Fire Code, 2012
Edition published by the International Conference of Building Officials, 5360
South Workman Mill Road, Whittier, California 90601, and Western Fire Chief
Association, 5360 South Workman Mill Road, Whittier, California 90601, all to
have the same force and effect as if set forth herein in every respect and
particular. The subject matter of the adopted code includes comprehensive
provisions and regulations governing the maintenance of buildings and premises;
to safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating the
storage, use and handling of dangerous and hazardous materials, substances and
devices; and by regulating the use or occupancy of buildings or premises.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 92.16 AMENDMENTS AND DELETIONS.
   None
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 8-12-1975)
§ 92.17 CODE COPIES.
   At least three copies of the Uniform Fire Code, 1973 Edition, of the
International Conference of Building Officials and Western Fire Chief
Association, certified to be true copies, have been and now are on file in the
office of the Town Clerk and may be inspected by any interested person between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, holidays excepted.
The Uniform Fire Code, if finally adopted, shall be available for sale to the
public through the office of the Town Clerk at a moderate price.
(Ord. 1975-5, passed 8-12-1975)
INCINERATION OF TRASH
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not merely directory or discretionary.
   COMBUSTIBLE. Any substance that has a flash point above 80°F to and
including 150°F, as determined by the tagliabue open cup tester. This
definition shall not apply to the flammability or combustibility of solids and
of the contents of self-pressurized containers which shall be determined by
methods generally applicable to such materials or containers and established by
regulations issued by the department.
   CORROSIVE SUBSTANCE. Any substance which, in contact with living tissue,
will cause destruction of tissue by chemical action, but shall not refer to
action on inanimate surfaces.
   DEPARTMENT. The Colorado Department of Health.
   FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE. A substance which has a flash point above 20°F to and
including 80°F as determined by the tagliabue open cup tester. This definition
shall not apply to the flammability or combustibility of solids and of the
contents of self-pressurized containers which shall be determined by the
methods generally applicable to such materials or containers and established by
regulation issued by the Department.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance or mixture of substances which:
      (1)   Is toxic;
      (2)   Is corrosive;
      (3)   Is an irritant
      (4)   Is a strong sensitizer;
      (5)   Is flammable or combustible; or
      (6)   Generates pressure through decomposition, heat or other means, if
such substance or mixture of substances may cause substantial personal injury
or substantial illness during or as a proximate result of any customary or
reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably foreseeable
ingestion by children.
   IRRITANT. Any substance not corrosive within the meaning of the definition
for corrosive above which on immediate, prolonged or repeated contact with
normal living tissue will induce a local inflammatory reaction.
   STRONG SENSITIZER. A substance which will cause, on normal living tissue,
through an allergic or photodynamic process, hypersensitivity which becomes
evident on reapplication of the same substance and which is designated as such
by the Department.
   TRASH or REFUSE. Includes any grass clippings, leaves, hay, straw, manure,
shavings, excelsior, paper, ashes, containers, boxes, glass, cans, bottles,
garbage, waste, inoperative vehicles or parts thereof and discarded building
and construction materials, including, but not limited to, plaster, broken
concrete, bricks, cinder blocks, stones, wood, roofing material, wire or metal
binding, sacks or loose discarded or unused material, and all other waste
material of any kind or nature whatsoever.
   TOXIC. Applies to any substance (other than a radioactive substance) which
has the capacity to produce personal injury or illness to humans through
ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body surface.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997)
§ 92.31 OUTSIDE BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or burn or permit to be
burned any trash, refuse, wood or weeds, brush, plants or other combustible or
flammable material anywhere within the limits of the town or anywhere on town
property outside of the town limits, except when:
   (A)   The burning is in the course of an agricultural operation in the
growing of crops as a gainful occupation and presents no fire hazard to other
property in the vicinity;
   (B)   The burning is for the noncommercial cooking of food for human beings;
   (C)   The burning is a smokeless flare or a safety flare used to indicate
some danger to the public; or
   (D)   The burning is a training fire conducted by the Fire Department, or a
training fire conducted by another Fire Department and approved in writing by
the town’s Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 BURNING IN OUTSIDE INCINERATORS.
   No person shall burn any combustible trash, refuse or material in any
incinerator other than as specified in this section. Burning is permitted in an
incinerator only under the air pollution control regulations adopted by the
county, if any, and if none, by the state having state-wide application. All
incinerators shall be located in accordance with the zoning requirements of the
town and shall be placed so as not to constitute a fire hazard to adjacent
buildings or structures.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 EXCEPTIONS.
   Sections
92.31 and
92.32 as hereinabove set forth shall not apply to any fire authorized by the
Fire Chief upon finding that such fire would not be detrimental or injurious to
the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997)
§ 92.34 UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall dispose of any hazardous material or substance by dumping or
pouring on the ground or into a storm drain or sanitary sewer or any connection
thereto.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.35 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all areas within the incorporated limits of
the town and to every other public way or public place or public property,
either within or without the incorporated limits of the town, the use of which
the town has jurisdiction and authority to regulate.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of a violation of §
92.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$5 and not more than $100.
   (C)   (1)   Any wooden building which may be erected, enlarged, removed or
be in the process of erection, enlargement or removal contrary to the
provisions of §
92.02 shall be deemed a nuisance and the owner, builder or remover, upon three
days’ notice in writing given by the Board of Trustees to abate such nuisance
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
      (2)   Any person offending against any provisions of §
92.02 shall upon conviction thereof forfeit and pay to the said town not less
than $10 nor more than $100 and costs of suit for each offense and penalty of
$10 for each seven days any building prohibited by §
92.02 shall remain within said fire limits.
   (D)   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to §§
92.15 through
92.17:
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
stated or adopted in §§
92.15 through
92.17.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
§§
92.15 through
92.17 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.17 is committed, continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300.
   (E)   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to
this §§
92.30 through
92.35.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
stated or adopted in §§
92.30 through
92.35.
      (2)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision stated or
adopted in §§
92.30 through
92.35 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-7-1903; Ord. 60, passed 7-1-1941; Ord. 1975-5, passed 8-12-
1975; Ord. 1997-1, passed 12-11-1997; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
112.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA
      
113.   CONTRACTORS
      
114.   POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
      
115.   ALCOHOL
      
116.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   License required
   
110.05   License fee
   
110.06   Applications
   
110.07   Issuance
   
110.08   Contents
   
110.09   Postings
   
110.10   All other licenses required by state authority
   
110.11   Revocation
   
110.12   Emergency suspension
   
110.13   Surrender of license
   
110.14   Effect of termination
   
110.15   Records
   
110.16   Requirements of licensee
   
110.17   Exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Annual Business Regulations and
Licensing Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the annual licensing and limited
regulation of all businesses conducted on premises within the town and to
provide the town with necessary information concerning the activities of
businesses in order to protect the property, health, welfare, peace or safety
of its citizens, inhabitants and visitors.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business (including sales of tangible personal property and
furnishing of services), profession, occupation or activity engaged in by a
person for profit, gain, benefit or advantage which is conducted on premises
within the incorporated limits of the town.
   LICENSE YEAR. The period beginning January 1 and ending December 31 of any
calendar year.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to obtain an annual business license.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, estate, trust,
association, joint venture or other entity.
   PREMISES. Any land, structure, lodge, store, office, sales room, warehouse
or other place of business situated within the incorporated limits of the town
which is owned, leased or occupied by a business.
   TOWN. The Town of La Jara in the County of Conejos and State of Colorado.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any business on premises
within the incorporated limits of the town without first having obtained an
annual business license from the town. An annual business license shall be
obtained for each place of business within the town, irrespective of whether
the business conducted therein is a separate business or a branch, division or
agency of a licensed business situated at another location within the town.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Amount. The license fee for the annual business license shall be $50
for each license year for a regular business. The license fee for a Street
Vendor shall be $25.00 annually.
   (B)   Payment; term. Every business shall pay the license fee and shall
obtain an annual business license prior to commencement of business, which
license shall be valid for the period ending December 31 of the year when
issued.
   (C)   Annual renewal. It shall be the duty of each licensee to obtain an
annual renewal of such license by payment of the annual license fee of $50 to
the Town Clerk on or before March 1 for the current year and the licensee
continues to engage in the business or activity for which the license was
issued, the fee will increase to $75.00. It is unlawful for a licensee to
continue to engage in any business or activity after his or her license
therefor has expired.
   (D)   Prorating of annual license fee. Any business license applied for and
issued after January 1, but before July 1 of any license year shall be issued
at the annual license fee as hereinabove provided in division (A) above. Any
license applied for and issued after June 30 of any license year, but before
January 1 of the succeeding license year, shall be used at one-half of the rate
of the annual license fee as hereinabove provided. In any case, where a license
is made necessary because of the annexation or consolidation with the town of
any contiguous tract or territory, the licensee’s license fee shall be that
proportion of the annual license fee which the number of months remaining in
the license year bears to 12 months.
   (E)   Prorating of fees during interim period. With respect to any business
license issued in 1985 for which the licensee has paid an annual licensing fee
for any business license the expiration of which carries over into 1986 on or
before the expiration date of such license issued to him or her, the licensee
shall make application for a new license, on a prorated basis as set forth in
division (D) above with respect to annexations or consolidations to the town
for the remainder of the 1984 calendar year.
   (F)   Return of fee. Upon refusal of any license, the fee therefor paid in
advance shall be returned to the applicant. In the event that any license is
revoked, all monies paid therefor shall be and remain the monies of the town
and no refund shall be made to any licensee.
   (G)   Transferability. No license may be assigned or transferred, nor may
any licensee authorize any other person to do business or act under the terms
of the license herein granted, except as specifically authorized.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986; Ord. 2021-2, passed 11-18-2021)
§ 110.06 APPLICATIONS.
   The application for every license required by and issued under authority of
the town shall contain:
   (A)   The name of the person, firm or corporation desiring such license;
   (B)   The residence address of such applicant, or of each of the individual
members of such firm, or of each of the directing officers of such corporation
and its principal place of business;
   (C)   A statement concerning the type of business, trade, profession to be
performed, practiced or carried on;
   (D)   The street address, if any, where such business is to be carried on;
   (E)   The year for which the license is sought; and
   (F)   Any other relevant information required by the terms of the provisions
pertaining to the license sought or any other relevant information required by
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.07 ISSUANCE.
   Upon the receipt of the application containing the information set forth in
§
110.06, proof of the annual fee therefor has been paid in advance, the
execution and delivery of any bond or insurance that may be required, the
approval of the application for license where license is required and the
fulfillment of all other specific requirements relating to the issuance of the
particular license, the Town Clerk shall issue and deliver to the applicant the
license requested.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.08 CONTENTS.
   Each license shall show upon its face the name of the person to whom it was
issued, the street address where any business is to be carried on, if
applicable, the kind of license issued, the amount paid therefor, the year for
which such license is issued and any other information required by this chapter
to be displayed thereon.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.09 POSTINGS.
   Every license issued by the town for a business to be conducted at a
particular street address or location shall be posted during the period such
license is valid. Such license shall be posted upon the wall of the principal
room or offices of the business. When such license expires, it shall be
removed. No license not in full force and effect shall remain posted.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.10 ALL OTHER LICENSES REQUIRED BY STATE AUTHORITY.
   All other licenses if any required by the state, or by any of its political
subdivisions, such to include, but not limited to, all classes of liquor
licenses and all fermented malt beverage licenses shall be in accordance with
and in conformance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.11 REVOCATION.
   The Town Clerk shall, upon seven days’ written notice to a licensee stating
the contemplated action and, in general, the grounds therefor, and upon
reasonable opportunity to be heard, revoke any license issued by the town that
the Board of Trustees of the town finds that:
   (A)   The licensee has failed to pay the annual license fee;
   (B)   The licensee made any false statement in the application for a license
as to any of the facts required to be stated in such application;
   (C)   The licensee has either failed to file the required reports or furnish
such information as may be reasonably required by the town under the authority
vested in the town by the terms and provisions as contained in this chapter and
relating to the license granted;
   (D)   The licensee, either knowingly or without the exercise of due care to
prevent the same, has violated any terms of the provisions pertaining to the
license or any regulation or order lawfully made under and within the authority
of the terms of the provisions relating to the license; or
   (E)   Any fact or condition exists which if it had existed or had been known
to exist at the time of the application for such license, would have warranted
the Town Clerk or the Board of Trustees of the town in refusing originally to
issue such license.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.12 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   If the Board of Trustees of the town finds that probable cause exists for
revocation of any license for the privilege of conducting a business, trade or
profession regulated and controlled under the police authority of the town, the
Board of Trustees may enter an order for the immediate suspension of such
license, pending further investigation, for a period not exceeding ten days.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.13 SURRENDER OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may surrender the license by delivering it to the Town Clerk
and licenses with a written notice of its surrender, but such surrender shall
not affect the civil or criminal liability for acts committed prior thereto,
nor entitle the licensee to a refund of the license fee for a remaining portion
of the licensing year.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.14 EFFECT OF TERMINATION.
   (A)   No revocation, suspension or surrender of any license shall impair or
affect the obligation of any pre-existing lawful contract between the licensee
and those with whom the licensee has dealt.
   (B)   The Board or Trustees of the town may reinstate suspended licenses or
issue new licenses to a person whose license has been revoked or surrendered if
no fact or conditions then exists which would warrant the Board of Trustees to
refuse to issue such license under the terms of the provisions applicable to
the license.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.15 RECORDS.
   The Town Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses issued setting forth the
name of every licensee; the place of business licensed, if any; the residence
of the licensee, or of each of the individual members of the licensee firm, or
of each of the directing officers of the licensee corporation; and if
applicable, the kind of license used.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.16 REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE.
   Every license under this chapter shall do the following:
   (A)   Ascertain and at all times comply with all laws and regulations
applicable to a licensed business, such to include, but not necessarily be
limited to, compliance with all laws and regulations of any activity also
requiring a concurrent licensing by the state or any of its agencies or
political subdivisions;
   (B)   Avoid any illegal, dangerous or harmful practices or conditions which
are detrimental to the public property, health, welfare, peace or safety; and
   (C)   Refrain from engaging in businesses on the licensed premises during
the period the license is revoked or suspended.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees may, in its discretion and on a case by case basis,
reduce or waive any license fee for any activity conducted under the auspices
of a charitable, governmental or religious organization.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $300. Each day of business without a current business license shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-8-1986; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   License required
   
111.05   Exemptions
   
111.06   Applications for license; filing fee
   
111.07   Investigation and issuance of a licensee
   
111.08   Agent license
   
111.09   License fee
   
111.10   Religious, charitable and educational organizations; exemptions
   
111.11   Adjustment of fee causing undue burden on interstate commerce
   
111.12   Special events licenses
   
111.13   Use of streets
   
111.14   Exhibition of license
   
111.15   Records
   
111.16   Revocation of license
   
111.17   Notice of hearing
   
111.18   Appeal
   
111.19   Reapplication
   
111.20   Posting notice
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the licensing and regulation of
peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants desiring to conduct business
within the incorporated limits of the town and to provide the town with
necessary information concerning the activities of businesses in order to
protect the property, health, welfare, peace or safety of its citizens,
inhabitants and visitors.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the town or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, conveying or
transporting goods, wares or merchandise or offering or exposing the same for
sale, or making sales and delivering articles for purchasers.
   SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the town or not, who goes from
house to house, from place to place or from street to street, soliciting or
taking or attempting to take orders for sales of goods, wares or merchandise,
including magazines, books, periodicals or personal property of any nature
whatsoever for future delivery, or for service to be performed in the future,
whether of not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the
subject of such order or whether or not he or she is collecting advance payment
on such orders. Such definition includes any person who, for himself or
herself, or for another person, firm or corporation hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, motor vehicle, trailer, structure, tent, railroad box
car, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or other placement in the city
for the primary purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who
engages in a temporary business of selling or delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the town, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, trailer, tent,
railroad car, public room and hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops or any
street, alley or other place within the town for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction,
provided that such definition does not include any person, firm or corporation,
who, while occupying such temporary location does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery within
the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with
a local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer or by conducting such transient
business in connection with, as part of, or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant to engage in
any such business within the town without first obtaining a license therefor in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   Persons selling personal property at wholesale to dealers in such
articles;
   (B)   Act of merchants or their employees in delivering goods in their
regular course of business;
   (C)   Newspaper carriers;
   (D)   State licensed real estate brokers, salespersons and insurance agents;
   (E)   Employees of any public utilities;
   (F)   Automobile salespersons;
   (G)   Milk and milk producers and salespersons;
   (H)   Dissemination of information without solicitation of money or other
consideration;
   (I)   Any sales required by statute or court order;
   (J)   Any bona fide auction sale;
   (K)   Any person selling food or food products grown or raised in the state;
and
   (L)   Bona fide religious solicitation, if the solicitors do not attempt to
sell merchandise other than books or tracts.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.06 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE; FILING FEE.
   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file with the Town Clerk a
sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the Town Clerk in
advance of the first sale for which a license is required under this chapter,
which will give the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of the applicant;
   (B)   Complete permanent home and local address of the applicant, and in the
case of transient merchants, the local address from which proposed sales will
be made;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the good to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials therefrom establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold or
orders taken for the sale thereof where such goods or products are located at
the time said application is filed, and the proposed method of delivery;
   (G)   A recent photograph of the applicant which picture shall be
approximately two inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   (H)   The names of at least two property owners of the county who will
certify as to the applicant’s good character and business responsibility of the
applicant as will enable an investigator to properly evaluate such character
and business responsibility;
   (I)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime, misdemeanor or violation, the nature of the offense and the punishment
and penalty assessed therefor;
   (J)   The last cities or towns, not to exceed three, where the applicant
carried on business immediately preceding date of application and the addresses
from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
   (K)   Proof that the merchant has permission of any property owner to
conduct business upon private property shall also be submitted.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.07 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF A LICENSEE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, or such other officer who shall then be on duty, who shall immediately
institute such investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character as
he or she deems necessary for the protection of public goods and shall endorse
the application in a manner prescribed in this section within 24 hours after it
has been filed by the applicant with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of
Police, or such other officer who is then on duty, shall endorse on the
application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons for the same, and
return the said application to the Town Clerk, who shall notify the applicant
that his or her application is disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Police Chief,
or such other officer who is then on duty, shall endorse on the application his
or her approval and return the application to the Town Clerk, who shall, upon
payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his or her
license. Such license shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and
shall show the name, address and photograph of said licensee, the class of the
license issued and the kind of goods to be sold thereunder and containing the
wording, “The Town of La Jara does not endorse the products or the licensee”,
the amount of the fee, the date of issuance and the length of time the same
shall be operative, as well as the license number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used in such licensed business. Each peddler,
solicitor or transient merchant must secure a personal license. No license
shall be used at any time by any person other than the one to whom it is
issued. The Town Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.08 AGENT LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person or corporation which obtains a license in its own name
under the provisions of this chapter may thereafter obtain numbered agent
licenses authorizing another person to act in its behalf upon the filing of an
application with the Town Clerk, which application shall conform to the
requirements of §
111.06(A), (B), (D) and (I). Such application shall be deemed to be approved
unless the licensee is notified of its denial within seven days and shall
remain in effect until the license expires, is revoked or suspended or a new
application is submitted for transfer to another person.
   (B)   Any licensee who obtains agents licenses pursuant to this section
shall be strictly responsible for its agents full compliance with the laws and
ordinances of the town and any violation of the chapter by an agent shall be
grounds for suspension or revocation of the primary license, as well as the
agent license. For purpose of suspension or revocation, it shall not be
necessary to establish intent or knowledge on the part of the primary licensee.
   (C)   Any primary licensee may obtain agent licenses upon the payment of the
license fee. Such agent licenses shall become effective only upon the
submission of an application to operate thereunder and shall be transferable to
another individual upon the filing of a new application signed by the primary
licensee, the payment of a transfer fee of $10 and surrender of the previous
license.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.09 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   A fee for each of the licenses issued hereunder shall be as follows:
 
Term of License                        License Fee
3 days or less                         $5
More than 3 days but less than 30 days $10
In excess of 30 days                   $20
 
   (B)   For full-time residents of the town, an annual license fee and permit
may be obtained by paying the Town Clerk the sum of $10 in advance. The term of
the annual license shall be from January 1 of the year for which application
therefor is made to December 31 of such calendar year.
   (C)   For nonresidents of the town, but full-time residents of the county,
an annual license may be obtained by paying the town the sum of $10 per year in
advance.
   (D)   The term of the annual license shall be from January 1 of the year for
which application therefor is made to December 31 of such calendar year.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.10 RELIGIOUS, CHARITABLE AND EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any organization, society, association or corporation, school club or
activity desiring to solicit or have solicited in its name money, donations of
money or property, or financial assistance of any kind or desiring to sell or
distribute any item of literature or merchandise for which a fee is charged or
solicited from persons other than members of such organization upon the street,
in offices or office buildings, by house to house canvass or in public places
for a charitable, religious, patriotic, educational or philanthropic purpose
shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
111.06 and
111.09; provided there is filed a sworn statement in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Town Clerk which shall give the following information:
      (1)   Name and purpose of the cause for which the permit is sought;
      (2)   Name and addresses of the officers and directors of the
organization;
      (3)   Period during which solicitation is to be carried on; and
      (4)   Whether or not any commission, fee, wage or emoluments are to be
expended in connection with such solicitation and the amount thereof.
   (B)   Upon being satisfied that such organization, association or
corporation is a religious, charitable, patriotic, educational or philanthropic
organization, the Town Clerk shall issue a permit without charge to such
organization, association or corporation to solicit in the town. Such
organization, association or corporation shall furnish all its members, agents
or representatives conducting solicitation, credentials in writing stating the
name of the organization, name of agent and purpose of solicitation.
   (C)    The term CHARITABLE PURPOSES means any organization, campaign or
project which:
      (1)   Has as its primary purpose the furtherance of science, education,
philanthropy, religion, the arts or any political campaign;
      (2)   Which is not conducted for personal gain;
      (3)   No portion of the net proceeds of solicitation for which inures to
the benefit of any individual or shareholder; and
      (4)   Any organization to which contributions are deductible for federal
income tax purposes shall conclusively be deemed to be within this definition.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.11 ADJUSTMENT OF FEE CAUSING UNDUE BURDEN ON INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
   None of the license fee provided for by this chapter shall be so applied to
occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case where a license
fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for a license to place an undue
burden upon such commerce, he, she or it may apply to the Town Board for an
adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or
unfair as to such commerce. Such application may be made before, at or within
six months after payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by
affidavit and supporting testimony, show his, her or its method of business and
the gross volume of business and such other information as the Town Board may
deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of undue burden on
such commerce. The Town Board shall then conduct an investigation, comparing
the applicant’s business with other businesses of like nature and shall make
findings of fact from which it shall determine whether the fee fixed by this
chapter is unfair or discriminatory as to the applicant’s business and shall
fix the license fee for the applicant in an amount that is fair, reasonable or
non-discriminatory; or if the fee has already been paid, shall order a refund
of the amount over and above the fee so fixed. In fixing the fee to be charged,
the Town Board shall have the power to use any method which will assure that
the fee assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on businesses of like
nature, so long as the amount assessed does not exceed the fees as prescribed
by §
111.09
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.12 SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSES.
   (A)   Any fair, rodeo or other event sponsored by a charitable organization,
as defined in §
111.10, may, by resolution of the Town Board, obtain a license for the event
which shall cover all vendors at the event provided that the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The sponsoring organizations shall file an application with the
town for the event;
      (2)   The application shall include a list on such form as the Town Clerk
may prescribe of all vendors, licensed or authorized by the organization
sponsoring the event to sell merchandise at the event, together with such other
information as the Town Clerk may deem necessary to carry out the intent and
provisions of this chapter; and
      (3)   A fee in the amount of $100 for 14 days or less for each commercial
vendor shall accompany the application.
   (B)   Any vendor who is licensed under the provisions of this section shall
be exempted from the provisions of §§
111.06 and
111.10 during and at the event.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.13 USE OF STREETS.
   No licensee shall have an exclusive right to any location in the public
street; nor shall any be permitted a stationary location thereon; nor shall any
be permitted to operate in a congested area where such operation might impede
or inconvenience the public use of such streets. For the purposes of this
chapter, the judgement of a police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be
deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested and the public impeded or
inconvenienced.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.14 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Licensees are required to exhibit their certificate of license at the
request of any citizen.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.15 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the Town Clerk all convictions for
violations of this chapter and the Town Clerk shall maintain a record for each
license issued and record the reports of all violations therein.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.16 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to other causes provided by law, licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the Town Board after notice and
hearing for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for a license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement made in the course of
carrying on of his, her or its business as a peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor;
   (E)   Conducting the business of a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant,
as the case may be, in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general
welfare of the public;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement in the application for
a charitable solicitation permit; and
   (G)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement to any person from
whom charitable contributions were solicited.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.17 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Notice of hearing for a revocation of the license shall be given by the Town
Clerk, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, to the licensee at his, her or its last known address at least five
days prior to the date set for hearing, or shall be delivered by a police
officer in the same manner as a summons at least three days prior to the date
set for hearing.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.18 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or by the Town
Clerk, in the denial of a license as provided in §
111.07, may appeal to the Town Board. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with
the Town Board within 14 days after notice of the action complained of, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The Town
Board shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided in
§
111.07. At the time for hearing herein, the Town Board shall either affirm or
reverse the action aggrieved of, and the Town Board’s decision shall be final.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.19 REAPPLICATION.
   No licensee whose license has been revoked shall make further application
until at least six months has elapsed since the last previous revocation.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.20 POSTING NOTICE.
   Every person shall have the right to post a notice or notices on his, her or
its property to the effect that no peddlers or solicitors shall enter said
premises. Any persons licensed hereunder shall comply with said notice whether
or not they are specifically included therein.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $300. Each day of business without a current business license as herein
provided shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 1-8-1986; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL MARIJUANA
Section
   
112.01   Moratorium
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Medical marijuana prohibition
   
112.04   Patient and primary care givers
   
112.05   Business license required
   
112.06   Sales tax
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 MORATORIUM.
   (A)   A moratorium is hereby imposed on the submission, acceptance,
processing and approval of applications and the licensing, permitting
establishment or operation of any marijuana establishment or marijuana club
with the town as approved by electorate of the town on November 11, 2014.
   (B)   During such moratorium, no town personnel, board or authority shall
accept or process any application for a sales tax license, land use approval,
building permit or any other license or permit in relation to the operation or
establishment of a marijuana establishment or marijuana club.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-12-2013)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant genus cannabis whether growing or not, the
seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds
or its resin, including marijuana concentrate, but excluding industrial hemp,
fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of termination, or the weight of
any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink or other products.
   MARIJUANA CLUB. A place not used for residential purposes where individuals
gather to consume or grow marijuana, regardless of whether such place calls
itself private or public or charges an admission or membership fee.
   MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. A facility licensed to cultivate, prepare
and package marijuana and sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and other marijuana cultivation
facilities, but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. Includes a marijuana cultivation facility, a
marijuana testing facility and marijuana product manufacturing facility, or a
retail marijuana store.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. A facility licensed to purchase
marijuana; manufacture, prepare and package marijuana products; and sell
marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana product manufacturing
facilities and to retail marijuana store, but not to consumers.
   MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. A facility licensed to analyze and certify the
safety and potency of marijuana.
   RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE. A facility licensed to purchase marijuana from
marijuana cultivation facilities and sell marijuana and marijuana products from
marijuana product manufacturing facilities and to sell marijuana and marijuana
products to consumers.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011; Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-12-2013)
§ 112.03 MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROHIBITION.
   Medical marijuana businesses, including medical marijuana centers, optional
premises cultivation and medical marijuana-infused manufacturer operations are
prohibited within the municipal limits of the town. It is unlawful for any
person or entity to operate a medical marijuana business, including a medical
marijuana center, an optional premises cultivation operation or a medical
marijuana-infused manufacturer operation in the town. No town license or permit
for such medical marijuana business shall be issued by any town official nor
shall town approval of a state application under the CMMC be given for such
business by any town official. This prohibition applies irrespective of the
form of ownership or structure of the business activity and includes
cooperatives and non-profits.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PATIENT AND PRIMARY CARE GIVERS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit, regulate or
otherwise impair the use of medical marijuana by patients as defined by the
State Constitution, or the provision of medical marijuana by a primary care
giver to a patient in accordance with the State Constitution, and consistent
with C.R.S. § 25-1.5-106, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as
the same statutes and rules may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 112.05 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is properly licensed as a medical
marijuana center under state law by another local jurisdiction to deliver
medical marijuana within the town in any form to any person who is lawfully
entitled to possess or use medical marijuana under the provisions of § 14 of
Article XVIII of the State Constitution without first having obtained a
business license from the town.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 SALES TAX.
   Any deliveries of medical marijuana within the town by any person who is
properly licensed as a medical marijuana center under state law by another
local jurisdiction shall be subject to the town’s sales tax.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or who shall fail
or refuse to obey any lawful order or direction of the Board of Trustees,
police officer or Town Manager made under or pursuant to this chapter or in
carrying out any of its provisions shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 for the first
violation; not less than $200 for the second violation thereof, and not more
than $300. The Municipal Judge shall have no discretion to suspend a fine upon
conviction.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 1-13-2011; Ord. 2013-3, passed 9-12-2013; Ord. 2019-1,
passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 113: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Contractors must have license; control and supervision
   
113.03   License issuance
   
113.04   Expiration of license
   
113.05   Exemptions
   
113.06   Fees and the disposition thereof
   
113.07   Denial, suspension or revocation or refusal to renew license
   
113.08   Assumption of liability
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, co-partnership, association of persons, company or
corporation to whom is awarded any contract for the construction, erection,
repair, maintenance or improvement of any building, road, bridge or excavation
to be performed within the incorporated limits of the town.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or joint
venture, or the legal representative of any of them.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.02 CONTRACTORS MUST HAVE LICENSE; CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   No person shall engage in or work at the business of a contractor within the
incorporated limits of the town until he or she has received a license from the
Town Clerk upon written application therefor.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall issue a contractor’s license to persons who,
pursuant to answers on a license application form, represent to be fit,
competent and qualified to engage in the business of a contractor, but only
after the application form has been presented to, reviewed by and found to be
acceptable by the Town Building Inspector. An applicant for a contractor’s
license shall furnish evidence that he or she has had at least one year of
practical experience as a contractor, such evidence to consist, but not
necessarily limited to, references to which inquiries can be directed for the
purpose of ascertaining with a greater degree of certainty that the applicant
for a license does possess the fitness, competence, qualification and practical
experience to hold himself or herself out as a contractor. The Town Clerk may,
if it appears that further inquiry is necessary, withhold the issuance of a
license for a period not to exceed ten days during which the Town Clerk shall
conduct such investigations as are necessary and advisable to ascertain the
applicant’s fitness and competence.
   (B)   The town shall require as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
license to such applicant that the applicant furnish evidence of his or her
compliance with the applicable worker’s compensation and unemployment
compensation laws of the state.
   (C)   An applicant for a contractor’s license under this chapter shall file
a application on forms prepared and furnished by the Town Clerk and pay
therewith the license fee.
   (D)   Once a license has been issued, no contractor shall perform for any
person any private contract work within the incorporated limits of the town
without first obtaining from the Town Clerk a work permit, and without first
complying with all other town ordinances or regulations with respect thereto,
including, but limited to, compliance with the town’s Uniform Building Code,
zoning ordinance and all other ordinances, regulations and statutes, whether
local, state or federal, of a similar nature applicable thereto. The provisions
of this division (D) shall apply on a contract-by-contract basis.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.04 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued to a contractor on or after July 1, 1987 shall expire on
December 31, 1988. All licenses issued after December 31, 1987, but prior to
July 1, 1988 shall expire on December 31, 1988. Licenses may be renewed during
the 30 days prior to expiration upon payment of a renewal fee equal to the fee
charge for issuance of an original license.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require an individual to hold
a license to perform work on his or her own property or residence.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.06 FEES AND THE DISPOSITION THEREOF.
   The fee to be charged by the Town Clerk for the issuance of a contractor’s
license for the initial license term shall be the sum of $10. The fee for
succeeding renewals shall also be the sum of $10. All fees so collected shall
be credited to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.07 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW LICENSE.
   The Town Clerk may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew any license
issued or applied for under the provision of this chapter for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of any of the provisions of the chapter;
   (B)   Any cause for which issuance of the license could have been refused
had it then existed and been known to the Town Clerk;
   (C)   Any act of gross negligence, incompetency or misconduct in the
practice of a contractor;
   (D)   Any material misstatement, misrepresentation or fraud in obtaining a
license;
   (E)   Employment of any person required by this chapter to be licensed or to
obtain a permit who has not obtained such license or permit;
   (F)   Any action taken under the provision of this chapter shall be in
accordance with the provisions of C.R.S. Title 24, Article 4.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.08 ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   As a condition for the granting of a contract by the town to a contractor
for the contracting for public works for and in behalf of the town, the
contractor shall, as part of such contract, agree to assume any and all
liability in connection with the contract work proposed to be done, and further
agree to indemnify the town, its members of the Board of Trustees, officers,
employees, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of actions,
claims and demand, damages, losses, loss of services, expenses and compensation
on account of or in any way growing of any and all known or unknown personal
injuries, and/or property damage resulting, or to result from the contracting
work to be done or actually done. The contractor shall also produce evidence of
general liability insurance in an amount not less than $300,000 combined single
limit naming the town as an additional insured.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this
chapter.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions stated
or adopted in this chapter.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision stated or
adopted in this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300.
(Ord. 1987-3, passed 7-15-1987; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 114: POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
Section
   
114.01   Pool and billiard halls, ten-pin alleys and shooting galleries
   
114.02   Hours
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS, TEN-PIN ALLEYS AND SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   (A)   Every person using or letting any billiard or pool table, pool room,
ball or ten-pin alley or shooting gallery or any one them for hire or gain
shall pay a license for the privilege of running any such billiard or pool
table in the sum of $15 for the first table; $10 for the second table; and $5
for each additional table so used; and the sum of $15 for each ball and ten-pin
alley; and the sum of $25 for each shooting gallery used for the purpose
aforesaid, per year or ratable proportion for any part thereof; provided that
no license shall be issued for less than the sum of $10.
   (B)   (1)   Licenses for any of the aforesaid purposes may be granted only
to a person of good, moral character and the applicant shall present his or her
application for such a license to the Board of Trustees in writing accompanied
by the license fee for the time applied for asking the Board of Trustees to
grant him or her a license for the business named therein, and by bond of $500
conditioned that he or she will not sell or give away any spirituous, vinous,
malt or mixed liquors upon the premises so occupied by him or her or permit the
same to be drunk by others thereon.
      (2)   No minors under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to enter
such place or places of business, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
      (3)   He or she will keep an orderly and well conducted place, observe
the time or times for daily and Sunday closing such business fixed by
ordinance, pay all fines, penalties and the like that may be adjudged against
him or her; said bond to be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees;
provided that the Board of Trustees may refuse to grant a license for shooting
galleries and billiards or ten-pin alleys if it deems it to be nuisance.
(Ord. 15, passed 12-21-1909; Ord. 25, passed 11-14-1916) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 HOURS.
   (A)   All ball or ten-pin alleys and shooting galleries and all billiard or
pool tables and rooms shall close daily at 12:00 a.m. and shall not open again
for business before 7:00 a.m., except Sundays, when said establishments shall
be permitted to remain open from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
   (B)   Upon complaint made in writing to the Board of Trustees by any
freeholder of the town that the licensee has violated any of the portions of
this chapter, or upon reasonable evidence of such violation, the said Board of
Trustees may summarily revoke his or her license pending an investigation and
hearing.
(Ord. 15, passed 12-21-1909; Ord. 63, passed 8-19-1947)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall neglect to provide himself or herself with such license
and give such bond aforesaid, before attempting to pursue any of the business
aforesaid or who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined in any sum not less than $50 nor more than $300 and
forfeit his or her license if a license shall have been granted to him or her
and the Board of Trustees may refuse to grant another license to such person.
(Ord. 15, passed 12-21-1909)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOL
Section
   
115.01   Issuance of liquor licenses
§ 115.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The issuance of liquor licenses is governed by state law, C.R.S. Title 44,
Article 3 et seq.
CHAPTER 116: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   License application; term; renewal; non-transferable
   
116.04   Limitations and requirements
   
116.05   Fees
   
116.06   Suspension or revocation of license
   
116.07   Posting requirements
   
116.08   Advertising
   
116.09   Notice to owner
   
116.10   Additional provisions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEASE. An agreement or act by which an owner gives tenants for valuable
consideration, possession and use of property or a portion thereof for definite
terms, at the end of the term which the owner has an absolute right to take
control, use, and possession of the property.
   LEASEE. The party to a lease who has obtained the temporary right to use and
occupy property or a portion thereof.
   OWNER. The record owner of property who engages in the business of
furnishing for lease or for rent a short-term unit and who must be licensed
both as business as provided by
Chapter 110 and under this chapter.
   RESPONSIBLE AGENT. The owner, the owner's agent, or owner's designee who is
available to respond to any issues arising from a short-term rental unit within
60 minutes and who is authorized to receive written notice on behalf of the
owner.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The rental of all or a portion of residential dwelling
units rented or leased for less than 30 consecutive days when the property on
which the accommodation is located is assessed for property tax purposes as
residential property.
   TOWN CLERK. The person employed or appointed by the Board of Trustees of the
town to keep the books and records of the town on a day-to-basis.
   TOWN MANAGER. The person appointed or employed by the Board of Trustees of
the town to manage the day-to-day administrative duties of the town such to
include, but not limited to, supervision of all departments and department
heads in the day-to-day discharge of their respective duties and functions.
   TOWN. The Town of La Jara, a political subdivision of the state of Colorado
located in Conejos County thereof.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to lease or advertise for lease, or to
permit the leasing or advertising for lease, of any short-term rental property
within the town without a valid license for the same pursuant to this chapter.
A person who has obtained a license pursuant to this chapter shall be required
to hold a general business license and shall be required to hold a sales tax
license pursuant to §§
37.20 through
37.43 for the same business activity.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020) Penalty, §
116.99
§ 116.03 LICENSE APPLICATION; TERM; RENEWAL; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   At least 30 days prior to advertising a short-term rental unit, the
owner must file a written application for a short-term rental license with the
Town Clerk on forms supplied by the town. The application shall include:
property owner information; short-term rental unit address; proof of ownership;
designating a responsible agent; a signed affidavit certifying the habitability
of the short-term rental unit and compliance with applicable building and
safety codes; a parking plan, a trash and recycling plan, and any other
information as may be required by the town. The application is not complete and
will not be considered properly submitted until the owner provides all
information required by the town and pays the short-term rental license fee.
   (B)   The town may require, as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
short-term rental license or license renewal, an inspection of the short-term
rental unit by the Building Inspector or his or her designee for the purpose of
determining whether any extraordinary fire hazard exist therein, thereon, or in
connection therewith and whether the same are clean and sanitary. If, upon such
inspection, it shall be found and determined that such premises are unsanitary
or unsafe or if any extraordinary fire hazard shall be found to exist, the town
may require such changes or alterations to be made, in, about, upon or in
connection with the premises as shall be reasonably necessary to correct the
objectionable condition so found to exist as a condition precedent to the
issuance of a license for which application shall have been made.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receipt of a complete application for a short-term
rental license, if the Town Clerk and Building Inspector determine that the
license application complies with the requirements of this chapter, the Town
Clerk shall issue a short-term license.
   (D)   The short-term rental license is issued in the name of the owner and
is not transferable. Each change in ownership of a short-term rental unit
requires a new license.
   (E)   A short-term rental license expires on December 31 of the year of
issuance. An application of renewal of a short-term rental license shall be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing license.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.04 LIMITATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, an accommodation unit
licensed pursuant to this chapter shall, as a condition of such license, be
subject to the following requirements and limitations:
   (A)   Parking. The motor vehicle of all occupants of a short-term rental
unit shall be parked only on the property on which the rental unit is located
and no other place. No motor vehicle shall be parked on a lawn or landscaped
area of a short-term rental property or in the public street or right-of-way
near to or adjacent to the rental property. Only one vehicle shall be allowed
to park as herein provided for each rental unit. No person shall be permitted
to stay overnight in any motor vehicle which is parked at a short-term rental
property, and it shall be unlawful for a person renting a short-term rental
property to park or allow the parking of vehicles by occupants of the property
other than in locations set forth in the parking plan.
   (B)   Trash collection. The storage and disposal of all trash and garbage
from a short-term rental unit shall comply with the terms and provision of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, the requirement that the person in
charge of real property within the town is served by outside garbage pickup or
placed in a garbage can or similar refuse receptacle at the curb only on the
day of pickup.
   (C)   Occupancy.
      (1)   The maximum occupancy for overnight use of a short-term rental unit
shall be no more than two people per bedroom, plus four people.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the renter of a short-term rental property
to allow the overnight occupancy of a short-terms rental property by more than
the maximum number of sleeping places, within one or more beds, that are
located within a room that conforms to the requirements of the applicable
building code for bedrooms.
   (D)   Renter information notice.
      (1)   An owner shall post and maintain a sign in a conspicuous location
within each short-term rental property that shall contain the following
information: contact information for police, fire, and ambulance service in the
case of an emergency; the physical address of the short-term rental property;
contact information for the responsible agent or property owner; the town’s
short-term rental property license number, and the location of fire
extinguishers, if any, and the escape route.
      (2)   An owner shall place and maintain at a conspicuous location within
each short-term rental unit property written information that provides the
maximum number of people permitted for overnight occupancy; the location, by
description or depiction, for vehicle parking and maximum number of parked
vehicle permitted for the property; alternative parking locations (if any) for
extra vehicles, trailers and campers; the location of trash and recycling
receptacles and the rules and regulations regarding the handling of the same;
snow removal instructions or information; policies regarding noise and pets.
   (E)   Life safety. Each premises licensed under this chapter shall conform
to the applicable requirements of the town's building, technical and safety
codes that may have been adopted by reference by the town; have smoke
detectors, carbon monoxide detectors and fire extinguishers installed and
maintained in operable condition; have wood burning fireplaces and stoves
cleaned on an annual basis.
   (F)   Noise and nuisance. While occupying a short-term rental property as a
short-term lease, no person shall amplify music outdoors, make any noise that
violates any provision of §
135.01, nor engage in any act or allow any condition on the premises that
constitutes a nuisance.
   (G)   Camping and temporary structures. While occupying a short-term rental
property as a short-term lease, no person shall camp outdoors, pitch or use any
tents, or construct or use any temporary structure or recreational vehicle or
trailer for overnight purposes.
   (H)   Maximum number of dogs. The maximum number of dogs permitted on a
short-term rental premises shall be governed by all of the terms and provisions
of §
90.09.
   (I)   Dogs running at large. The owner or harborer of any dog or dogs owned
or controlled by a tenant of a short-term rental premises as herein provided
shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and limitation as set forth in
all of §
90.05.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.05 FEES.
   (A)   The short-term rental licensing fee shall be $300 per year regardless
of the date of application or as the Board of Trustees may, from time-to-time,
adopt and attach to this chapter. No license or renewal may be issued until the
applicable fee has been received by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Licensing fees are not refundable. In the event that any license is
suspended or revoked, no refund shall be made to the owner. Further, no refund
shall be made to any owner who discontinues engaging in the short-term rental
business during the licensing year. However, if a licensing or renewal
application is denied, the Town shall return the license fee submitted with the
application to the owner.
   (C)   The purpose of the fees collected under this chapter is to off-set
administrative and personnel costs associated with the short-term rental
license administration and enforcement. The rate of the short-term rental
license fee shall be set and may from time-to-time be amended to reflect the
cost of regulations, administration, and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.06 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A short-term rental license may be suspended or revoked by
administrative order of the Town Manager or his or her designee when: it
appears that the license was obtained by fraud, misrepresentation or false
statements within the application; upon failure to comply with the terms and
conditions of the short-term rental license, including, but not limited to,
failure to designate a responsible agent available to respond to short-term
rental unit complaints within one hours; failure to operate the short-term
rental unit business in compliance with health, safety, noise, and nuisance
ordinances of the town; failure to provide parking and trash recycling removal
in compliance with this chapter; failure to list the short-term term rental
license number in advertisements for the unit; failure to post the information
in the short-term rental unit as required by this chapter.
   (B)   When the owners fails to pay or collect and remit taxes as required by
this chapter, including, but not limited to, taxes imposed by local, state, or
federal taxing agencies.
   (C)   When the owner fails to pay utility fees or charges.
   (D)   When any activity conducted by the owner, his or her responsible
agent, or short-term rental guest violates any federal, state or local rule,
regulation or law.
   (E)   In pursuance of enforcement of this chapter, the Town Manager is
empowered to cause any short-term rental unit to be inspected and examined.
   (F)   In lieu of suspension or revocation, or as a condition of restoration
of licensure, the Town Manager may impose new or additional terms,
requirements, conditions, or limitations on a short-term rental license.
   (G)   In lieu of suspension or revocation, the Town Manager may request and
the owner may pay an administrative fine in an amount at the Town Manager's
sole discretion, up to $500 per offense.
   (H)   The owner may appeal an administrative order suspending or revoking a
short-term rental license within ten business days after the date the notice
was provided by the town to the owner or responsible agent. The appeal shall be
made in writing to the town and shall describe the basis of the appeal. If
owner requests an opportunity to be heard, the Town Manager shall schedule
either an in-person or telephonic hearing and provide notice of the hearing to
the owner. After considering an appeal, including conducting a requested
hearing, the Town Manager will make a final determination within a reasonable
time to suspend or revoke a short-term rental license, and such determination
shall be considered to be a final order subject to review under Rule 106 of the
Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.07 POSTING REQUIREMENTS.
The owner must post or cause to be posted the following information in a
prominent and visible location in the short-term rental unit: the short-term
rental license number; contact information for owner and/or responsible agent,
including a phone number for 24-hour response to emergencies; description of
fire extinguishers and emergency egress; general guide lines regarding noise,
parking, trash pickup, wildlife and pet guidelines; fire restrictions; and any
other information deemed necessary by the Town Manager to ensure the public
health and safety.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.08 ADVERTISING.
   All advertising for a short-term rental unit in the town shall include the
short-term rental license number as “La Jara short-term rental license-insert
number.”
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.09 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Any notice given by the town to an owner in pursuit of this chapter is
deemed sufficient if sent by either:
   (A)   First-class mail to the address provided by the owner or responsible
agent designated on the owner's most recent license or renewal application.
   (B)   Electronic mail, if the owner provides an electronic address and
indicates as the preferred method of notification on the owner's most recent
license or renewal application.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.10 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If any part, section, subsection of this chapter is, for any reason,
held invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
sections of this chapter. The Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would
have passed this chapter in each part, section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that one or more parts, sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.
   (B)   Any or all ordinances or part of ordinances of the town in conflict or
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed, provided, however, that the repeal
of any ordinance or parts of ordinances of the town shall not revive any other
sections of any ordinance or ordinances heretofore repealed or superseded.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons who shall violate any provision of this chapter or who
shall fail or refuse to obey any lawful order or direction of the Town Manager
made under or pursuant to this chapter, or in carrying out any of its
provisions shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined as hereinafter provided for each and every offense, and each day
that any violation of any provision of this chapter shall exist, shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Except as may be provided herein above, every person convicted of a
violation of any provision set forth in this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $200 for the first violation; not less than $300 for the
second violation, and not more than $500 for the third violation. The fines as
set forth herein are mandatory and the court shall have no discretion to
suspend or defer the fine or fines.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-9-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
135.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
136.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any fermented malt beverage (3.2% alcohol by weight or
less), malt, vinous or spiritous liquors (3.2% by weight or more).
   ASSAULT. An intentional, unlawful attempt or offer, coupled with the
apparent present ability to make forceful contact with the person of another,
under circumstances which create a reasonable apprehension of imminent forceful
contact.
   BATTERY. An intentional, unlawful making of forceful contact with the person
of another.
   BODILY INJURY. Physical pain, illness or any impairment of physical or
mental condition.
   CONCEAL. To place or attempt to place out of view in such manner and
circumstances as to indicate an intent to prevent others from seeing or
discovering the presence of the thing concealed.
   CRIMINAL NEGLIGENCE. A person acts with criminal negligence when, through a
gross deviation from the standard of care that a reasonable person would
exercise, fails to perceive or substantial and unjustifiable risk that a result
will occur or that a circumstance exists.
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, knife, bludgeon or
other weapon, device, instrument, material or substance, whether animate or
inanimate, which, in the manner it is used or intended to be used, is capable
of producing death or serious bodily injury.
   FIGHT. To voluntarily assault or batter or attempt to assault or batter
another under circumstances where the actor reasonably could avoid the
opportunity or necessity to assault or batter the other person.
   FIREARM. Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, slug, shell or
bullets or other objects or projectiles capable of inflicting pain, bodily
injury or property damage, by the action of gunpowder exploded or burned within
it, or by the action of compressed air within it or by the power or action of
springs, and including what are commonly known as air rifles, air pistols and
B-B guns.
   INTENTIONALLY or WITH INTENT. All offenses defined in this section in which
the mental culpability requirement is expressed as INTENTIONALLY or WITH INTENT
are declared to be specific intent offenses. A person acts INTENTIONALLY or
WITH INTENT when his or her conscious objective is to cause the specific result
proscribed by this title, or any provision thereof, defining the offense. It is
immaterial to the issue of specific intent whether or not the result actually
occurred.
   KNOWINGLY or WILLFULLY. All offenses defined in this chapter in which the
mental culpability requirement is expressed as KNOWINGLY or WILLINGLY with
respect to conduct or to a circumstance described by a statute defining an
offense when he or she is aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or
that such circumstance exists. A person acts KNOWINGLY or WILLFULLY with
respect to a result of his or her conduct when he or she is aware that his or
her conduct is practically certain to cause the result.
   LEWD AND INDECENT EXPOSURE. Performing an act or simulating an act of:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, flagellation or any sexual acts which are
permitted by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus
or gentitals;
      (3)   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The displaying of the post-pubertal human female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, or the displaying of the post-
pubertal human female breast where the nipple only or the nipple and areola
only are covered; or
      (5)   The open display of urination or excretory functions in any public
or private place other than in or upon a toilet facility provided for such
purposes.
   LITTER. All matters foreign to the place upon which said matter is deposited
wherein the matter is not made appurtenant to, or otherwise lawfully kept,
maintained or stored at said place, including, by way of illustration and not
limitation, refuse, garbage, trash, debris or other waste materials, solid or
liquid, of every form, size kind and description.
   LOITER. To be dilatory, to stand idly around or linger, delay, wander about,
to remain, abide or tarry in public places.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, association, partnership, limited
partnership, joint venture or firm.
   PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, the right-of-
way of any road or highway, any body of water or watercourse, including frozen
areas, any park, open space, playground or building, any recreation area and
any residential property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial segment of the
public has access, and includes, but is not limited to, highways,
transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks, playgrounds and
the common areas of public and private buildings and facilities.
   PUBLIC VIEW. A place which can be seen by ordinary unaided human vision from
a public place.
   RECKLESSLY. A person acts RECKLESSLY when he or she consciously disregards a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that a result will occur or that a
circumstance exists.
   REFUSE. Includes any grass clippings, leaves, hay, straw, manure, shavings,
excelsior, paper, ashes, containers, boxes, glass, cans, bottles, garbage,
waste, inoperative vehicles or parts thereof and discarded building and
construction materials, including, but not limited to, plaster, broken
concrete, bricks, cinder blocks, stones, wood, roofing materials, wire or metal
binding, sacks, loose discarded and unused material and all other waste
material of any kind or nature whatsoever.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury which involves a substantial risk of
death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of the
function of any part of the body.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Contact between the genitalia, anus or female breast of
one person and any part of another person for the purpose of immediate sexual
gratification of any person; and contact between the genitalia, anus or female
breast of one person and any part of any animal for purposes of sexual
gratification of any persons.
   TAMPER. To change the condition of anything so that its operation or
tendency to perform its intended function will be altered.
   TOWN. The Town of La Jara, County of Conejos in the State of Colorado.
   TOWN COUNCIL or TOWN BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Town of La Jara.
   WILLFULLY. See KNOWINGLY.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted in the Municipal Court of the town of a violation
of any term, provision or section of this title may be fined an amount not to
exceed $300; provided that any lesser penalty than that which is permitted
herein may be expressly provided by regulations of the town, and in such cases,
such lesser penalty shall be controlling upon the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the power of the Municipal
Court to take such action as it may deem appropriate, in the sound exercise of
its discretion, to summon, try and punish any person who may be found in
contempt of said court.
   (C)   Upon the failure or neglect by a person to pay a fine as directed by
the Municipal Court, the Court shall inquire as to the grounds for said
person’s neglect or failure to pay such fine. Should the Court be satisfied
that the grounds for said person’s failure to pay the fine is solely indigency,
the Court shall not incarcerate said person; provided, however, that the person
who owes the fine has the burden of going forward and persuasion on the issue
of indigency.
   (D)   The Municipal Court is hereby granted full power and authority to
order payment of restitution to the damaged party by the person responsible for
damage under all sections of this title.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault and battery
   
131.02   Menacing
§ 131.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or battery upon the person of
another.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 MENACING.
   It shall be unlawful to commit, the offense of menacing. A person commits
the crime of menacing if, by any threat or physical action, he or she knowingly
places or attempts to place another person in fear of imminent serious bodily
injury.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Theft
   
132.02   Concealment of goods; shoplifting
   
132.03   Questioning of person suspected of shoplifting without liability
   
132.04   Criminal mischief
   
132.05   Trespassing
   
132.06   Defacing property
   
132.07   Littering on public or private property
§ 132.01 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful to commit theft. A person commits theft when he or she
knowingly obtains or exercises control, over anything of value of another
without authorization or by threat or deception and:
   (A)   Intends to deprive the other person permanently of the use or benefit
of the thing or value;
   (B)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value in such a
manner as to deprive the other person permanently of its use or benefits;
   (C)   Uses, conceals or abandons the thing of value intending that such use,
concealment or abandonment will deprive the other person permanently or its use
and benefits;
   (D)   Demands any consideration to which he or she is not legally entitled
as a condition of restoring the thing of value to the other person; and
   (E)   Where the value of the thing involved is less than $300.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.02 CONCEALMENT OF GOODS; SHOPLIFTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully conceal unpurchased goods,
wares or merchandise owned or held by and offered or displayed for sale by any
store or other mercantile establishment, whether the concealment be on his or
her own person or otherwise and whether on or off the premises of said store or
mercantile establishment. Such concealment constitutes prima facie evidence
that the person intended to commit the offense of theft.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.03 QUESTIONING OF PERSON SUSPECTED OF SHOPLIFTING WITHOUT LIABILITY.
   If any person conceals upon his or her person or otherwise carries away any
unpurchased goods, wares or merchandise held or owned by any store or
mercantile establishment, the merchant or any employee thereof or any police
officer, acting in good faith and upon probable cause based upon reasonable
grounds therefor, may detain and question such person, in a reasonable manner
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the person has committed shoplifting.
Such questioning of a person by a merchant, merchant’s employee or police
officer does not render the merchant, merchant’s employee, or police officer
civilly or criminally liable for slander, false arrest, false imprisonment,
malicious prosecution or unlawful detention.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   Any person who knowingly damages the real or personal property of one or
more other persons in the course of a single criminal episode commits the
offense of criminal mischief.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 TRESPASSING.
   It is unlawful for a person to enter upon any property within the town owned
or occupied by another without license or privilege to do so, or to remain upon
any such property after having been requested to leave by the owner of the
property or by any person having charge of the property. Property is that of
another if anyone other than the defendant has a possessory or proprietary
interest therein.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to deface or to cause, aid in or permit the
defacing of any public or private property without the consent of the owner of
such property.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to deposit, throw or leave any litter on
any public or private property or on any waters.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense that:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
the property;
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for that purpose; or
      (3)   Such person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such
property, or he or she has first obtained written consent of the owner or
tenant in lawful possession, or the act is done under the personal direction of
said owner or tenant.
   (C)   It is in the discretion of the court, upon the conviction of any
person and the imposition of a fine under this section, to suspend any or all
of the fine upon the condition that the convicted person gather and remove from
specified public property or specified private property, with prior permission
of the owner or tenant in lawful possession thereof, any litter found thereon,
or upon the condition that the convicted person pick up litter at a time
prescribed by and a place within the jurisdiction of the court for not less
than eight hours or for not less than 16 hours upon a second or subsequent
conviction.
   (D)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle in violation of this section, the operator of said motor vehicle is
presumed to have caused or permitted the litter to be so thrown, deposited,
dropped or dumped therefrom.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Public indecency
   
133.02   Indecent exposure
   
133.03   Disorderly conduct
   
133.04   Harassment
   
133.05   Loitering
   
133.06   Invasion of privacy
   
133.07   Open containers
§ 133.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit the offense of public
indecency.
   (B)   Any person who performs any of the following in a public place or
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the
public commits public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse;
      (2)   An act of deviate sexual intercourse;
      (3)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of any person; or
      (4)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit the offense of lewd and
indecent exposure.
   (B)   A person commits lewd and indecent exposure if he or she knowingly
performs an act or simulates an act of:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, flagellation or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus
or genitals;
      (3)   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The displaying of the post-pubertal human female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, or the displaying of the post-
pubertal human female breast where the nipple only or the nipple and areola
only are covered; or
      (5)   The open display of urination or excretory functions in any public
or private place other than in or upon a toilet facility provided for such
purpose.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for a person to commit the offense of disorderly
conduct.
      (2)   A person commits disorderly conduct if he or she intentionally,
knowingly or recklessly;
         (a)   Makes a coarse and obviously offensive utterance, gesture or
display in a public place and the utterance, gesture or display tends to incite
an immediate breach of the peace;
         (b)   Makes unreasonable noise in a public place or near a private
residence that he or she has no right to occupy;
         (c)   Fights with another in a public place except in an amateur or
professional contest of athletic skill;
         (d)   Not being a peace officer, discharges a firearm in a public
place; and
         (e)   Not being a peace officer, displays a deadly weapon in a public
place in a manner calculated to alarm.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under division (A) above
that the actor had significant provocation for his or her abusive or
threatening conduct.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990; Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-10-2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit the offense of
harassment.
      (2)   A person commits harassment if, with intent to harass, annoy or
alarm another person, he or she:
         (a)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects
him or her to physical contact;
         (b)   In a public place directs obscene language or makes an obscene
gesture to or at another person;
         (c)   Follows a person in or about a public place;
         (d)   Engages in conduct or repeatedly commits acts that alarm or
seriously annoy another person and that serve no legitimate purpose;
         (e)   Initiates communication with a person, anonymously or otherwise
by telephone, in a manner intended to harass or threaten bodily injury or
property damage, or makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal by
telephone which is obscene;
         (f)   Makes a telephone call or causes a telephone to ring repeatedly,
whether or not a conversation ensues, with no purpose of legitimate
conversation;
         (g)   Makes repeated communication at inconvenient hours or in
offensively coarse language; or
         (h)   Repeatedly insults, taunts or challenges another in a manner
likely to provoke a violent or disorderly response.
   (B)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
OBSCENE means a patently offensive description of ultimate sexual acts or
solicitation to commit ultimate sexual acts, whether or not said ultimate
sexual acts are normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
masturbation, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus or excretory functions.
   (C)   Any act prohibited by division (A)(2)(e) above may be deemed to have
occurred or to have been committed at the place at which the telephone call was
either made or received.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 LOITERING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit the offense of
loitering.
      (2)   A person commits the offense of loitering if he or she:
         (a)   Loiters for the purpose of unlawful gambling with cards, dice or
other gambling paraphernalia;
         (b)   Loiters for the purpose of engaging or soliciting another person
to engage in prostitution or deviate sexual intercourse;
         (c)   With intent to interfere with or disrupt the school program or
with intent to interfere with or endanger schoolchildren, loiters in a school
building or on school grounds or within 100 feet of school grounds when persons
under the age of 18 are present in the building or on the grounds, not having
any reason or relationship involving custody of, or responsibility for, a pupil
or any other specific, legitimate reason for being there, and having been asked
to leave by a school administrator or his or her representative or by a peace
officer; or
         (d)   Loiters with one or more persons for the purpose of unlawfully
using or possessing a controlled substance as defined in C.R.S. § 18-18-102(5).
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense that the defendant’s acts were
lawful and he or she was exercising his or her rights of lawful assembly as a
part of peaceful and orderly petition for the redress of grievances, either in
the course of labor disputes or otherwise.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees of the town hereby finds that the general
assembly of the state finds and declares that the state has a special interest
in the protection of children and, particularly, in protecting children who
attend schools because required to do so by the School Attendance Law of 1963,
C.R.S. Title 22, Article 33, and the prohibition of loitering in division (A)
(2)(c) above is enacted in furtherance of these interests.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990; Ord. 2018-1, passed 10-11-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 INVASION OF PRIVACY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to look into the windows, doors,
skylights or other opening of any person’s domicile or to defeat or attempt to
defeat the privacy-preserving purpose of any device or structure without the
permission of the person being observed, the owner or possessor of the
domicile, or their agents:
   (A)   By concealing oneself in such manner to prevent detection by the
person being observed;
   (B)   From within the real property surrounding the domicile; or
   (C)   From without with the use of magnifying devices such as binoculars,
monoculars, telescopes, spy glasses and other vision enhancing devices.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or have under his or
her control any alcoholic beverage in an open container or in a container, the
seal of which is broken, in any public place within the town.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit having open containers of
alcoholic beverages:
      (1)   In any premises of a duly-licensed vendor of alcoholic beverages
whose license allows consumption on the premises;
      (2)   In public areas where authorized by a properly issued special
events permit;
      (3)   Pursuant to a permit issued by the town; or
      (4)   By owners, agents of owners of real property or their invitees
within the confines of said property.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, drinking alcoholic beverages
in any vehicle on public streets or property is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drink, have in an
open container or have in a container, the seal of which is broken, any
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverage while in a vehicle which is
moving, parked, stopped or standing on any street, roadway or other public way
in the town, or for the driver, owner or person in control of any vehicle to
permit any person or persons to drink, have in an open container or have in a
container, the seal of which is broken, intoxicating liquor or fermented malt
beverages therein while the same is being driven, or is stopped, standing or
parked on any street, roadway or other public way in this town.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
134.01   Resisting arrest
   
134.02   Interference with police officer or firefighter
   
134.03   Refusing to aid police officer
   
134.04   False reporting to authorities
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly prevent or attempt to
prevent any police officer acting under color of his or her official authority
from effecting an arrest of the actor or another by:
      (1)   Using or attempting or threatening to use physical force or
violence against the police officer or another;
      (2)   Using or attempting to use any other means which creates a
substantial risk of causing physical injury to the police officer or another;
or
      (3)   Running from, eluding or concealing oneself or another from, or
attempting to run from, elude or conceal oneself or another from, a police
officer or officers attempting to effect an arrest.
   (B)   It is no defense to prosecution under this section that the police
officer was attempting to make an arrest which in fact was unlawful, if he or
she was acting under color of his or her official authority, and was not
resorting to unreasonable or excessive force giving rise to the right of self
defense. A police officer acts under COLOR OF HIS OR HER OFFICIAL AUTHORITY
when, in the regular course of assigned duties, he or she is called upon to
make, and does make, a judgment in good faith based upon surrounding facts and
circumstances that an arrest should be made by him or her.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OFFICER OR FIREFIGHTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of
obstructing a peace officer or firefighter. A person commits the offense of
obstructing a peace officer or firefighter when, by using or threatening to use
violence, force or physical interference, or obstacle, he or she knowingly
obstructs, impairs or hinders the enforcement of the penal law or the
preservation of the peace by a peace officer, acting under color of his or her
official authority, or knowingly obstructs, impairs or hinders the prevention,
control or abatement of fire by a firefighter, acting under color of his or her
official authority.
   (B)   It is no defense to a prosecution under this section that the peace
officer or firefighter was acting in an illegal manner, if he or she was acting
under color of his or her official authority.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer or endeavor to assist any
person who, because of a misdemeanor or civil matter, is in the custody of a
peace officer, member of the Police Department, or a person duly empowered with
police authority, to escape or to attempt, to escape from custody.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to rescue or to attempt to rescue
any person who, because of a misdemeanor or civil matter, is in the custody of
a peace officer, a member of the Police Department, or a person duly empowered
with police authority.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 REFUSING TO AID POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years of age or older, upon command
by a person known to him or her to be a police officer, to unreasonably refuse
or fail to aid the police officer in effecting an arrest, securing the custody
of an arrestee or preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 FALSE REPORTING TO AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   A person commits false reporting to authorities, if:
      (1)   He or she knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency
to be transmitted to or with an official or volunteer fire department,
ambulance service or any other government agency which deals with emergencies
involving danger to life or property;
      (2)   He or she makes a report or knowingly causes the transmission of a
report to law enforcement authorities of a crime or other incident within their
official concern when he or she knows that it did not occur;
      (3)   He or she makes a report or knowingly causes the transmission of a
report to law enforcement authorities pretending to furnish information
relating to an offense or other incident within their official concern when he
or she knows that he or she has no information or knows that the information is
false; or
      (4)   He or she knowingly provides false identifying information to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   For purposes of this section IDENTIFYING INFORMATION means a person’s
name, address, birth date, Social Security number or driver’s license or state
identification number.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-13-2003) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
130.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted in the Municipal Court of the town of a violation
of any term, provision or section of §
134.04 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $300.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-13-2003; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES RELATING TO PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
135.01   Noise prohibited generally
   
135.02   Sound production or reproduction devises, restriction and exception
§ 135.01 NOISE PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   (A)   The making of unnecessary noises upon, near or adjacent to the
streets, highways and other public places in the town is declared to be a
public nuisance. The enumeration of the particular offenses defined in this
section shall not be construed as limiting the generality of this section, or
limiting the offenses to the particular offenses enumerated in this section.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any unnecessary or unusual noise between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m., which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health or safety or others, or to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., whether in the
operation of any machine or the exercise of any trade or calling, or otherwise,
any noise which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health
or safety of others, unless the making and continuing of the same is necessary
for the protection or preservation of property or the health, safety, life or
limb of some person.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.02 SOUND PRODUCTION OR REPRODUCTION DEVISES, RESTRICTION AND EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person to use, operate or permit to
be played any radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph,
drum or other machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound in
such a manner as to cause to be made or continued any unnecessary or unusual
noise, which either annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
or safety of others, unless the making of such noise is necessary for the
protection or preservation of property or the health, safety, life or limb of
some person.
   (B)   Prima facie violation. The operation of any such set, instrument,
television, phonograph, machine or device at any time in such a manner as to be
plainly audible at the places described under the following respective
circumstances shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section:
      (1)   In the case of a detached, single-family dwelling, the property
line of the real property upon which the source of the sound is located;
      (2)   In the case of any structure which consists of more than one
dwelling unit, any place where the person charged with a violation of this
ordinance does not have the right to exclude others; and
      (3)   In the case of a vehicle in any public place or within public view,
a distance of 25 feet from said vehicle.
   (C)   Application. This section shall not apply to any person who is
participating in any activity for which a permit has been issued by the town,
so long as said person is conducting his or her activity within the confines
and purposes of said permit.
   (D)   Dwelling unit. For purposes of this section, the term DWELLING UNIT
means one room or rooms connected together for occupancy. If there is more than
one utility meter, address to the property, or kitchen, or if separate
entrances are used or if there is a lockable, physical separation among rooms
in the dwelling unit such that each room or rooms on each side of the
separation could be used as a dwelling unit, multiple dwelling units are
presumed to exist; except that this presumption may be rebutted by evidence
that the residents of the dwelling share utilities and keys to all entrances to
the property and that they share a single common bathroom as the primary
bathroom, or share a single common kitchen as the primary kitchen.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 7-26-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 136: CURFEW
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Curfew for minors, unlawful acts by parents or guardians; other
provisions
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   11:00 p.m. on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, or until
5:00 a.m. the following day; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m. on any Friday, Saturday or Sunday until 5:00 a.m. on the
same day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but it not limited to: a
fire; a natural disaster; an automobile accident; or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
for which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who under court order, in the guardian of a minor;
      (2)   A person who otherwise has legal custody of a minor; or
      (3)   A public or private agency with which a minor has been placed by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   KNOWINGLY. Knowledge which a parent, guardian or other person having legal
custody of a person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of said minor.
   MINOR. A person who is under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is the natural parent, adoptive parent, stepparent or
foster parent.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but it not limited to, streets, highways,
sidewalks and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings or transport facilities.
   REMAIN.
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any body member or organ.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-9-2007)
§ 136.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS, UNLAWFUL ACTS BY PARENTS OR GUARDIANS; OTHER
PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to be in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment during curfew hours as defined above unless he or
she is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
      (2)   In the custody of and accompanied by a person who has reached 18
years of age, but only if the person possesses the written consent of the
minor’s parent or guardian;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle currently being used in interstate travel; or
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly
permit, or by insufficient control, allow, the minor to be in or remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours unless
the minor is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   In the custody of an accompanied by a person who has reached 18
years of age, but only if the person possesses the written consent of the
minor’s parent or guardian;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle currently being used in interstate travel; or
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person over the age of 17 years to aid,
abet, encourage or assist any minor under the age of 17 years to violate the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above shall be
subject to apprehension by any police officer on duty or other authorized
person without warrant; provided, however, that no such minor person shall be
placed in confinement until the parent or guardian shall have been notified of
such police custody. Upon such notice being given, the custody of such minor
person shall forthwith be transferred to such parent, guardian or legal
custodian upon satisfactory assurance to the apprehending officer or his or her
superior that such parent, guardian or legal custodian shall appear with the
minor child in the Municipal Court of the town at the time designated.
   (E)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the charges under division (A)
above that the minor was:
      (1)   Involved in an emergency;
      (2)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (3)   Attending an official school, religious or recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization or another
similar entity;
      (4)   Going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the town, a civic organization, religious organization or
another similar entity; or
      (5)   On an errand at the direction of his or her parent, guardian,
without any detour or stop.
   (F)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the charges under divisions (A)
and (B) above that the minor has been determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction prior to the alleged violation to be beyond the control of the
parent or guardian.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Judge of the town to hold a
hearing and determine the complaints filed pursuant to divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above as in other cases, and it shall be the duty of the Municipal Judge to
report for further investigations to the Juvenile Court of the county the names
of all minor persons violating the curfew provisions for the second or more
times, together with the names of the parents, guardians or legal custodians of
such minor person.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-9-2007) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Every minor person convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions stated or adopted by this chapter shall be fined not less than $50
for the first conviction thereof, not less than $150 for the second conviction
thereof; and not less than $300 for the third and all subsequent convictions
thereof, including all relevant court costs, such fine and court costs to be
paid not later than the next scheduled hearing date for the next Court’s
hearing and/or arraignment date.
      (2)   The fines set forth herein are mandatory and the Court shall have
no discretion to suspend or defer the fine or fines.
   (B)   (1)   Every adult person convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions stated or adopted by this chapter shall be fined not less than $50
for the first conviction thereof, not less than $150 for the second conviction
thereof; and not less than $300 for the third and all subsequent convictions
thereof, including all relevant court costs, such fine and court costs to be
paid not later than the next scheduled hearing date for the next Court’s
hearing and/or arraignment date.
      (2)   The fines set forth herein are mandatory and the Court shall have
no discretion to suspend or defer the fine or fines.
   (C)   Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter, the Municipal Court
shall have authority to impose useful public service hours of not less than 20
hours upon the first conviction; 40 hours of useful public service upon second
and subsequent convictions.
   (D)   In the event useful public service is imposed, the Municipal Court
shall assess costs for the administration of the useful public service in an
amount not less than administrative costs, such to include, but not limited to,
relevant insurance coverage costs. Payment of said costs shall be deemed
mandatory and necessary for the administration of the useful public service
program and shall not be suspended.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-9-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT OF LANDS
      
152.   EXCAVATIONS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Code Adoption
   
150.01   Codes Adopted
International Building Code
   
150.10   Adoption
   
150.11   Copy on file
   
150.12   Amendments
International Residential Code
   
150.20   Adoption
   
150.21   Copy on file
   
150.22   Amendments
International Mechanical Code
   
150.30   Adoption
   
150.31   Copy on file
   
150.32   Amendments
International Energy Conservation Code
   
150.40   Adoption
   
150.41   Copy on file
   
150.42   Amendments
International Existing Building Code
   
150.50   Adoption
   
150.51   Copy on file
   
150.52   Amendments
Fire and Building Regulations
   
150.60   Fire limits
   
150.61   Building permits
   
150.62   Requirements of buildings within fire limits
   
150.63   Wooden buildings
   
150.65   Building requirements
   
150.66   Prohibited construction
   
150.67   Building restrictions
   
150.68   Ashes
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.70   Adoption
   
150.71   Copy on file
   
150.72   Amendments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
UNIFORM BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED.
   The Town of La Jara adopts by reference the following codes:
   (A)   International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001.
   (B)   International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, including Appendices L
and Q, as published by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue,
NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20001.
   (C)   International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, including as published by
the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001.
   (D)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, including as
published by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th
Floor, Washington, DC 20001.
   (E)   International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001.
   (F)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.10 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, Chapters 1 through 35 inclusive, is hereby adopted by reference as
the Town of La Jara Building Code as if folly set out in this Section with the
additions, deletions, insertions and changes as set forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IBC, as
adopted and as amended.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.11 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Building Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.12 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the adopted code are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Subsection 101.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
   (B)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building #1 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
      One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area is not greater than
200 square feet.
   (C)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building #2 is hereby amended to read as
follows: Fences not over six feet high.
   (D)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building is hereby amended by adding the
following:
      #14 Agricultural buildings as defined by this code and are approved by
the code official. The parking of private or commercial vehicles is strictly
prohibited within this structure and such use shall immediately revoke the
Agricultural Exempt Building status and require a formal building permit with
the associated fees.
   (E)   Subsection 202, Definitions is hereby amended by adding the following
definition:
      Agricultural Buildings: are those buildings or structures constructed for
the sole purpose of housing farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or
other horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human
habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.20 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, Chapters 1 through 10 and 12 through 23 inclusive, including
Appendices L, Permit Fees and Q, Tiny Houses is hereby adopted by reference as
the Town of La Jara Building Code as if fully set out in this Section with the
additions, deletions, insertions and changes as set forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IRC, as
adopted and as amended.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.21 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Residential Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.22 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the adopted code are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Subsection 101.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
   (B)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building #2 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
      Fences not over six feet high.
   (C)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building #5 is hereby deleted in its
entirety and replaced with the following:
      #5 Sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches above adjacent grade,
and not over any basement or story below and are not part of an accessible
route.
   (D)   Subsection 105.2, Permits, Building is hereby amended by adding the
following:
      #11 Agricultural buildings as defined by this code and are approved by
the code official. The parking of private or commercial vehicles is strictly
prohibited within this structure and such use shall immediately revoke the
Agricultural Exempt Building status and require a formal building permit with
the associated fees.
   (E)   Subsection 202, Definitions is hereby amended by adding the following
definition:
      Agricultural Buildings: are those buildings or structures constructed for
the sole purpose of housing farm implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or
other horticultural products. This structure shall not be a place of human
habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed,
treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public.
   (F)   Subsection R313.1, Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems, is
hereby amended as follows:
      R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems. An automatic
residential fire sprinkler system shall be installed in townhouses containing
three or more attached dwelling units.
      Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required where additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do
not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
   (G)   Subsection R313.2, One-and two-family dwelling automatic fire
sprinkler systems, and its subsections are deleted in their entirety.
   (H)   Chapter 11, Energy Efficiency, is deleted in its entirety.
   (I)   Chapter 25, Plumbing Administration, is deleted in its entirety.
   (J)   Chapter 26, General Plumbing Requirements, is deleted in its entirety.
   (K)   Chapter 27, Plumbing Fixtures, is deleted in its entirety.
   (L)   Chapter 28, Water Heaters, is deleted in its entirety.
   (M)   Chapter 29, Water Supply and Distribution, is deleted in its entirety.
   (N)   Chapter 30, Sanitary Drainage, is deleted in its entirety.
   (O)   Chapter 31, Vents, is deleted in its entirety.
   (P)   Chapter 32, Traps, is deleted in its entirety.
   (Q)   Chapter 33, Storm Drainage, is deleted in its entirety.
   (R)   Chapter 34, General Requirements, is deleted in its entirety.
   (S)   Chapter 35, Electrical Definitions, is deleted in its entirety.
   (T)   Chapter 36, Service, is deleted in its entirety.
   (U)   Chapter 37, Branch Circuit and Feeder requirements, is deleted in its
entirety.
   (V)   Chapter 38, Wiring Methods, is deleted in its entirety.
   (W)   Chapter 39, Power and Lighting Distribution, is deleted in its
entirety.
   (X)   Chapter 40, Devices and Luminaires, is deleted in its entirety.
   (Y)   Chapter 41, Appliance Installation, is deleted in its entirety.
   (Z)   Chapter 42, Swimming Pools, is deleted in its entirety.
   (AA)   Chapter 43, Class 2 Remote-Control, Signaling and Power-Limited
Circuits, is deleted in its entirety.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.30 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington,
DC 20001, Chapters 1 through 15 inclusive, including Appendices (“IMC”), is
hereby adopted by reference as the Town of La Jara Building Code as if fully
set out in this Section with the additions, deletions, insertions, and changes
as set forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IMC, as
adopted and as amended.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.31 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Mechanical Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.32 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the adopted code are hereby amended as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
      Section 5 International Energy Conservation Code
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.40 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001, Chapters Cl through C6 and RI through R6 inclusive,
including Appendices (“IECC”), is hereby adopted by reference as the Town of La
Jara Building Code as if fully set out in this Section with the additions,
deletions, insertions, and changes as set forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IECC, as
adopted and as amended.
      (1)   The enforcement of the International Energy Conservation Code shall
be in accordance with the phased implantation plan policy.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.41 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Energy Conservation Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.42 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the adopted code are hereby revised as follows:
   Commercial Provisions
   (A)   Subsection C101.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
   (B)   Subsection Cl03.2, Information on Construction Documents, is amended
as follows:
      12.   Air barrier and air sealing details, including the location of the
air barrier.
   (C)   Subsection C103.2, Information on Construction Documents, is amended
to add the following:
      13.   Energy Compliance Path
   (D)   Subsection Cl03.2, Information on Construction Documents, is amended
to add the following:
      14.   Additional Efficiency Package
   (E)   Subsection C402.1.2, Equipment Buildings, is amended to add the
following:
      6.   Agriculture buildings that meet the definition and requirements
established in the International Building Code.
   Residential Provisions
   (F)   Subsection RI 01.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
   (G)   Subsection RI 03.2, Information on Construction Documents, is amended
to add the following:
      9.   Energy Compliance Path
   (H)   Subsection R402.1, General, the exception is amended to add the
following:
      3.   Agriculture building the meet the definition and requirements
established in the International Building Code or the International Residential
Code.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
§ 150.50 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published
by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor,
Washington, DC 20001, Chapters C1 through C6 and R1 through R6 inclusive,
including Appendices (“IECC”), is hereby adopted by reference as the Town of La
Jara Building Code as if fully set out in this Section with the additions,
deletions, insertions and changes as set forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IECC, as
adopted and as amended.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.51 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Energy Conservation Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.52 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the adopted code are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Subsection 101.1, Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara where
indicated.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
FIRE AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.60 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following shall be and hereby are declared to be the fire limits of the
town: all of Blocks 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 23 in the town.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.61 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No building, wall, structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
built, enlarged or altered anywhere in the town until a plan of the proposed
work, together with specifications showing any materials to be used, shall have
been submitted to the Board of Trustees or to its Building Committee.
      (2)   If such plan and specifications comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, the Board of Trustees or Building Committee shall issue a permit or
the proposed construction, upon payment of the fees in §
150.02.
   (B)   No structure hereafter erected or altered within the town shall be
occupied or used until a certificate of compliance with the provisions of this
chapter shall have been issued by the Board of Trustees or its Building
Committee. Such certificate shall be issued within ten days after the erection
or alteration of any such building shall have been completed in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.62 REQUIREMENTS OF BUILDINGS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   Every building hereafter erected or enlarged within the fire limits shall be
enclosed on all sides with walls constructed wholly of stones, well burnt
brick, well made adobe brick, tile approved by the Board of Fire, Underwriters
or other equivalent materials. All cornices shall be of incombustible
materials. All roofs placed upon any such building shall have a standard fire-
resistive covering. When a new wall is erected upon a lot line or within three
feet of another building, a fire wall shall be erected extending at least three
feet above the roof line of such new wall.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.63 WOODEN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No wooden building or part of any building now hereafter constructed
within the fire limits shall be raised, enlarged or removed to any place within
said limits, nor shall any wooden building be moved into the fire limits. A
building with a wooden frame, the sides of which are covered with sheet iron or
other material shall be deemed a wooden building for the purpose of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Any wooden building which may be erected, enlarged or removed contrary
to the provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.65 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings hereafter erected anywhere within the town shall comply with
the following requirements.
   (A)   Foundation. All such buildings shall have cement footings which shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Brick buildings shall have footings at least 20 inches wide and at
least ten inches thick with foundations at least ten inches wide, up to the
lower edge of the floor joists.
      (2)   Frame or stucco buildings shall have cement footings at least 16
inches wide and at least eight inches thick with cement foundation at least
eight inches wide up to the lower edge of the floor joists. Sills of frame or
stucco buildings shall be bolted to the cement foundations with one-half-inch
by eight-inch bolts not more than four feet apart, the bolts to be set in the
foundation while the cement is wet.
      (3)   Adobe buildings shall have cement footings at least 20 inches wide
and ten inches thick with cement foundation at least 12 inches wide extending
up to the lower edge of the floor joists and all cross walls in such buildings
shall have cement footings at least ten inches wide and at least six inches
deep extending up to the lower edge of the floor joists.
   (B)   Walls. Brick buildings shall have walls at least nine inches thick.
Adobe buildings shall have
walls at least 12 inches thick Concentrated loads applied to adobe walls shall
be supported by adequate pilasters which may be of reinforced concrete, steel
or masonry construction. Two story brick buildings shall have walls at least 12
inches thick for the first eight feet above the first floor. Two story adobe
buildings shall have walls at least 12 inches thick for the first eight feet
above the first floor. Two story adobe buildings shall have walls at least 20
inches thick for the first eight feet above the first floor.
   (C)   Chimneys. All chimneys in buildings hereafter erected and all chimneys
hereafter altered or rebuilt shall be constructed of brick, hollow tile or
burned clay products. No masonry chimney shall have walls less than eight
inches thick, unless it be lined on the inside with well burned terra cotta or
fire clay chimney tile set in lime mortar, in which case the walls shall be not
less than four inches thick. The lining shall be from a point at least four
inches below the thimble to the top of the chimney. Brick set on edge shall not
be permitted in chimney construction. All chimneys shall project at least three
feet above the point of contact with a frame roof, or two feet above the ridge
of a pitched roof. Lime mortar only shall be used in the construction of
chimneys. No chimney in any building shall have wooden supports. Supports shall
be incombustible and shall rest upon the ground or the foundation. All chimneys
which are found by the Building Committee to be dangerous for any cause shall
be repaired and made safe, or torn down. No woodwork shall be less than one
inch from any chimney.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.66 PROHIBITED CONSTRUCTION.
   No structure intended for human occupancy shall hereafter be erected within
the town with side walls made of wood slabs, boxes, used railroad ties or any
other unapproved building materials.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.67 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   Every residence hereafter erected or altered shall provide a lot area of not
less than 3,500 square feet for each family, and a frontage upon the street of
not less than 50 feet, except that where a lot held under distinct ownership
from adjacent lots or record at the time of the passage of this subchapter has
a less area than above stated, this regulation shall not apply. Every residence
shall have side yards having an aggregate width of not less than ten feet and a
minimum width for either yard of not less than three feet. The front building
line of any residence shall be at least 25 feet from the lot line of the street
upon which the residence faces; provided that in any block in which at least
50% of the lots on the same side of the street shall have been built upon in
conformity with a fairly even building line located less than 25 feet from the
lot line, any buildings thereafter erected in any such block on the same side
of the street shall be erected in conformity with said front building line. Any
residence upon a corner lot shall be at least ten feet from the lot line on the
side street.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
§ 150.68 ASHES.
   No warm or hot ashes shall be deposited in any part of the town unless the
same be deposited in a secure metallic or earthen vessel, or brick or adobe ash
pit.
(Ord. 56, passed 5-23-1939)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.71 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th
Floor, Washington, DC 20001, Chapters 1 through 8 inclusive (“IPMC”), is hereby
adopted by reference as the Town of La Jara Building Code as if fully set out
in this Section with the additions, deletions, insertions and changes as set
forth in this Section.
   (B)   No building shall be hereafter constructed, erected, enlarged, altered
or moved into the Town of La Jara unless the same shall, as to design,
construction, quality of materials and workmanship, conform with the IPMC, as
adopted and as amended.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.72 COPY ON FILE.
   A digital copy of the International Mechanical Code provided by the
International Code Council is available at https://codes.iccsafe.org/.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.73 AMENDMENTS.
The following sections of the adopted code are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101, [A] 101.1 Title, is amended to insert Town of La Jara
where indicated.
   (B)   Section 103.5 Fees: Insert the Town of La Jara Fee Schedule.
   (C)   Section [A] 111.1 Application for appeal is hereby amended to change
Board of Appeals to the La Jara Planning Commission.
   (D)   Section [A] 111.2 Membership of the Board is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
   (E)   Section 111.4.1 Procedure is hereby deleted.
   (F)   Section 302.4 Weeds: Insert eight (8) inches.
   (G)   Section 304.14 Insect Screens is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (H)   Section 304.14 Guards for basement windows is hereby deleted.
   (I)   Section 308.3.1 Garbage facilities is hereby deleted.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of the codes
adopted by reference herein and any person convicted of a violation of any of
the provision of said codes shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,650.00
and incarceration not exceeding 364 days in jail. Every day of continued
violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-11-2023)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT OF LANDS
Section
   
151.01   Generally
   
151.02   Words and terms
   
151.03   Conditions of annexation and development
   
151.04   Required agreement
   
151.05   Promulgation of subdivision policies and standards
§ 151.01 GENERALLY.
   All annexations of unincorporated territory to the town shall be done in
conformance with C.R.S. Title 31, Article 12, Part 1, as amended, otherwise
known as the Municipal Annexation Act of 1965.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-9-1979)
§ 151.02 WORDS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A detached residential dwelling unit that must meet all of the
following criteria in order to be located within the incorporated limits of the
town, and then only in a permissible zoning classification zone:
         (a)   Designed for a long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities,
and which has plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to
outside systems;
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication, on its own wheels,
or on flatbed or other trailers or on detachable wheels;
         (c)   Arrives at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
unit and is ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operation, located on an adequate foundation, supports or jacks
previously approved by the town’s Building Inspector, underpinned, with
adequate connections to utilities and the like in conformity with applicable
building, plumbing and electrical codes;
         (d)   Exceeds either eight feet in body width or 32 feet in body
length, excluding towing gear and bumpers;
         (e)   Is without motive power; and
         (f)   Is certified pursuant to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
amended, (commonly referred to as the HUD Code; effective 1976) and all
regulations enacted pursuant thereto, including any local modifications as are
expressly allowed by federal law.
      (2)   MOBILE HOMES, manufactured homes and trailer houses must not have
been manufactured more than 20 years from the current year of installation.
      (3)   A structure meeting the above definitions and criteria shall be
deemed suitable for human habitation on a year-round basis when provided with
the required plumbing, heating and electrical facilities. The structure shall
not be occupied as a dwelling unit until such requirements and criteria are met
and satisfied. MOBILE HOME shall not include any camping unit such as travel
trailers, campers or self contained “motor homes” or “camper buses”. MOBILE
HOME shall also not include any manufactured home as defined in C.R.S. § 31-23-
301(5)(a)(I) and the definition for manufactured home below.
   DWELLING, ONE UNIT. A detached principal building designed for or occupied
as a dwelling exclusively by one family as an independent living unit, but not
including mobile homes, but including a manufactured home as defined in C.R.S.
§ 31-23-301(5)(a)(I).
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling which:
      (1)   Is partially or entirely manufactured in a factory;
      (2)   Is not less than 24 feet in width and 38 feet in length;
      (3)   Is installed on an engineered permanent foundation;
      (4)   Has brick, wood or cosmetically equivalent exterior siding and a
pitched roof; and
      (5)   Is certified pursuant to the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-10-2000; Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 151.03 CONDITIONS OF ANNEXATION AND DEVELOPMENT.
   Unincorporated territory may be annexed to the town and shall be developed
under the following terms and conditions unless a majority of the members of
the Board of Trustees of the town for compelling community interests, decide
and determine by appropriate resolution that any one or more of such terms and
conditions should be waived or dispensed with.
   (A)   Land dedication for public use. The owner shall, in addition to the
dedication of land for street right-of-way, dedicate for other public use not
less than 10% of the net land being proposed for annexation, or at the option
of the town, the cash value of 10% of said land. The location of said land
shall be mutually agreed upon by both the Town Board of Trustees and the
annexor prior to approval of the annexation. NET LAND shall be defined as the
gross amount of land less any street right-of-way required by the town that
would be in excess of that normally required for a residential collector street
of 60 feet in total width. This land dedication shall be satisfied at the time
of annexation by the applicant by delivery of a warranty deed for the tract of
land proposed to be dedicated, an escrow deed for a tract of land of comparable
value which shall be traded at the time of the final planning, a certified
check or in such manner as determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Dedication and acquisition of water rights. With respect to water and
water rights, the annexor or developer shall comply with and fulfill the terms
and conditions that may then be in existence and contained in and forming a
part of the town subdivision policies and standards as then adopted by the
Board of Trustees by ordinance or resolution and from time to time amended by
the Board of Trustees, or such other additional terms and conditions as the
Board of Trustees may impose upon the area proposed to be annexed.
   (C)   Water tap fees. Water tap fees shall be assessed on the basis of a
schedule of fees, adopted by ordinance, and from time to time amended by the
Board of Trustees. This ordinance may be obtained from the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Sewer tap fees. Sewer tap fees shall be assessed on the basis of a
schedule of fees, adopted by ordinance, and from time to time amended by the
Board of Trustees. This ordinance may be obtained from the Town Clerk.
   (E)   Street development. It shall be the responsibility of the developer or
annexor to dedicate and develop all streets other than those designated on the
official thoroughfare plan as arterial streets to the standards contained in
the town’s subdivision policies and standards.
   (F)   Arterial streets. It shall be the responsibility of the developer or
annexor to dedicate the necessary arterial street right-of-way. The development
of said arterial street shall be the responsibility of the town except, where
in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, the arterial is necessary for access
to the proposed development and is a newly dedicated street, in which event,
the arterial shall be developed at the expense of the developer or annexor. Any
right-of-way required by the town in excess of the requirements for a
residential collector street of 60 feet in width shall be deemed excess for the
purpose of calculating land dedication.
   (G)   Water and sewer lines. The developer shall be required to install, at
his or her cost, all water and sewer lines. The developer shall install eight-
inch water lines and 12-inch sewer lines, unless otherwise determined by the
Board of Trustees. If oversized lines are requested by the town, the town will
reimburse the developer for the difference in cost, including labor and
materials and all appurtenances between an eight-inch water line and a 12-inch
sewer line and the required lines and the appurtenances.
   (H)   Storm drainage. It shall be the responsibility of the developer or
annexor to provide for the
control of storm drainage as required by the town’s subdivision policies and
standards.
   (I)   Subdivision policies and standards. The developer shall comply with
all subdivision policies deemed appropriate by the Board of Trustees which are
contained in the town’s subdivision policies and standards.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-9-1979; Ord. 1984-1, passed 8- -1984)
§ 151.04 REQUIRED AGREEMENT.
   The requirements of this chapter and any additional requirements determined
by the Board of Trustees of the town shall be contained in a written agreement
to be executed by the developer or annexor at the time of annexation.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-9-1979)
§ 151.05 PROMULGATION OF SUBDIVISION POLICIES AND STANDARDS.
   The Town Planning Commission is hereby authorized and directed to draft or
amend, as the case may be, and submit for adoption to the Board of Trustees of
the town as the Board of Trustees may from time to time request, subdivision
policies and standards as the Board of Trustees may find advisable or necessary
to ensure that future development, either on lands within the present corporate
limits of the town or on lands within territories proposed for annexation to
the town, meet the town’s goals and objectives as contained in the
comprehensive plan for the town, the master plan or zoning plan as the case may
be. The Town Planning Commission is hereby further authorized and directed to
make such preliminary investigations as the Planning Commission deems necessary
or advisable of any proposed subdivision or annexation to ensure that all
subdivision, annexation, zoning or master plan policies and standards are met,
and make such reports, recommendations of approval or disapproval or approval
with modification of the subdivision or annexation plan to the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 1-9-1979)
CHAPTER 152: EXCAVATIONS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Excavations in streets, alleys, public grounds; permit required;
hindering or obstructing repair
   
152.03   Compliance with local, state and federal regulations
   
152.04   Hindering or obstructing repair
   
152.05   Assumption of liability
   
152.06   Fees and disposition
   
152.07   Denial, suspension or revocation or refusal to renew license
Sidewalks
   
152.20   Construction
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Grades
   
152.23   Town authority
   
152.24   Repair and construction
   
152.25   Condition
   
152.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCAVATION. Any operation in which earth is moved or removed by means of any
tools, equipment or explosives, and includes augering, backfilling, ditching,
drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, scraping, drenching and
tunneling.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or joint
venture, or the legal representative of any of them.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 152.02 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC GROUNDS; PERMIT REQUIRED;
HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall dig any hole, ditch or drain, or make any excavation
in or otherwise tear up or destroy in any manner or for any purpose any public
street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, or other public ground without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the office of the Town Clerk. No such permit
shall be issued without a prior application for such permit being made on forms
to be provided by the Town Clerk setting forth the purpose and plans for such
excavation and a plan for the repair thereof, subject to the reasonable
satisfaction and approval of the Town Maintenance Supervisor or the Town
Building Inspector. Such application may require such other information
relating to such excavation as may reasonably be required by the Town Building
Inspector or the Town Maintenance Supervisor. Every permit issued pursuant to
any such application shall provide for the prompt and satisfactory repair of
such excavation in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with such
reasonable regulations and requirements as the Board of Trustees of the town
shall make.
   (B)   The town shall require as a condition precedent to the issuance of an
excavation permit that the applicant furnish evidence of his or her compliance
with applicable worker’s compensation and unemployment compensation laws of the
state.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   No excavation work, or the backfilling thereof, or the laying of any water
and/or sewer pipeline, or the traversing of the same, shall be done unless such
is accomplished in full conformity with any and all applicable local, state or
federal health or water and sewer regulations, such to include, but not limited
to, conformity, if applicable, with the provisions of C.R.S. § 9-1.5-101 et
seq.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 152.04 HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING REPAIR.
   No person shall hinder or obstruct the making or repairing of any pavement,
sidewalk, curb, gutter or other public improvements which may be in the course
of legal and permissible construction or hinder or obstruct any person or
persons employed in any construction.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 152.05 ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   As a condition for the granting of such an excavation permit, the applicant
shall, as part of the application, agree to assume any and all liability in
connection with the excavation work proposed to be done, and further agree to
indemnify the town, its members of the Board of Trustees, officers, agents,
employees, successors and assigns from any and all actions, causes of actions,
claims and demands, damages, losses, loss of services, expenses and
compensation on account of or in any way growing out of any and all known or
unknown personal injuries and/or property damages resulting, or to result from
the excavation work to be done or actually done. The applicant shall also
produce evidence of general liability insurance in an amount not less than
$300,000 combined single limit naming the town as an additional insured.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 152.06 FEES AND DISPOSITION.
   The fee to be charged by the Town Clerk for the issuance of an excavation
permit shall be the sum of $10 for each permit requested. All fees so collected
shall be credited to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
§ 152.07 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OR REFUSAL TO RENEW LICENSE.
   The Town Clerk may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew any license
issued or applied for under the provision of this subchapter for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of any of the provisions of the subchapter;
   (B)   Any cause for which issuance of the license could have been refused
had it then existed and been known to the Town Clerk;
   (C)   Any act of gross negligence, incompetency or misconduct in the
practice of a contractor;
   (D)   Any material misstatement, misrepresentation or fraud in obtaining a
license;
   (E)   Employment of any person required by this subchapter to be licensed or
to obtain a permit for one who has not obtained such license, or permit; and
   (F)   Any action taken under the provision of this subchapter in accordance
with the provisions of C.R.S. Title 24, Article 4.
(Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987)
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.20 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed in front of or abutting upon any
lot, lots or lands in the town shall be made of concrete. The cement to be used
shall be portland cement of the “Ideal” brand or any amount of equal quality.
   (B)   All sidewalks in the town shall be constructed and be of materials
following, to wit.
      (1)   All walks shall have a foundation or cushion of cinders or clean
coarse gravel at least six inches thick thoroughly tamped and settled, upon
which shall rest the concrete.
      (2)   In all business walks, the concrete shall be at least six inches
thick, with a topping or surface in addition at least in addition at least one
inch thick. In all residential walks, the concrete shall be at least five and
one-half inches thick with a topping or surface in addition at least three-
fourths of an inch thick. The concrete of the body of all walks shall be
composed of one part cement, two parts clean sand and four parts clean gravel
thoroughly mixed and well-tamped.
      (3)   The topping on surfaces shall be composed of one part cement and
two parts clean sand.
      (4)   All sidewalks shall be divided into blocks not more than three and
one-half feet wide by six feet long.
      (5)   All business walks shall be ten feet wide from the outer edge of
the building line and shall be supported on the outer edge by a curb six inches
thick of same composition as the body of the sidewalk, and faced with concrete
one inch thick composed of one part cement and two parts clean sand. The curb
shall be less than 20 inches deep and shall be separated from the walk, but
shall be continuous across the front of the lot or lands where such sidewalk is
constructed.
      (6)   In residential walks, the topping or surface shall extend down over
each edge of the walk to the bottom level of the cushion or foundation.
      (7)   The outer corners of all walks at the street and alley corners
shall be curbed and the outer edges of curbs and the edge of all residential
sidewalks shall be rounded.
      (8)   All residential walks shall be four feet wide, except as
hereinafter provided and the inner edge shall be one foot from the outer edge
of the abutting lots or lands.
      (9)   All walks on Broadway and Walnut Streets between Second and Third
Streets shall be six feet wide and the inner edge of such walks shall be placed
against the outer edge of the property line.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS WALKS. All walks in front of or abutting upon lands, lot or lots
situated on Main Street and lying between Spruce and Poplar Streets, and on all
other streets or blocks or parts thereof that may hereafter be used for or
designated as business lots or blocks.
   RESIDENTIAL WALKS. All other walks, except such as are herein designated as
business walks.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912)
§ 152.22 GRADES.
   (A)   All walks shall conform to established grade to be furnished by the
Board of Trustees or the Town Engineer and shall be constructed under the
supervision of the same or a representative appointed by the Board of Trustees,
who shall have power to force a strict compliance with the terms of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed in first class workmanlike manner
and in all matters of detail, wherein this subchapter is silent, they shall be
constructed in accordance with the direction of the inspector or person or
persons representing the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912)
§ 152.23 TOWN AUTHORITY.
   If at any time a majority of the owners of lots or lands, or an owner of the
majority of lots or land in any block or blocks abutting upon any street or
avenue in the town petition the Board of Trustees to construct, repair or
extend any sidewalk, it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to proceed
and cause such sidewalk to be constructed as herein after provided.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912)
§ 152.24 REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall from time to time, as it shall deem
necessary, order by resolution, the condemnation, construction, building,
repairing or extension of the sidewalk or sidewalks on any street, streets,
avenue or avenues or portion thereof and when so ordered to be extended, built
or repaired, the same shall be constructed in the manner and form provided by
this subchapter and it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to cause
notice to be given the owner or owners of such lot, lots or lands in front of
which such sidewalks is to be extended, constructed, built or repaired.
      (2)   Such notice shall estimate the dimensions of the walk to be
extended, constructed, built or repaired and a description of the lot, lots or
lands where it is to be made and shall be served upon the owner of said lot,
lots or lands 15 days before the time when the construction, extension or
repairing of such walk is to be commenced if served within the town.
      (3)   If the owner of such lot, lots or lands cannot be found within the
town, then he, she or if a corporation, it, is to have 30 days’ notice, which
shall be sent to the owner or owners by registered letter addressed to his, her
or its last known post office address and shall also be served upon the
occupant of the land if such land is occupied.
      (4)   At the expiration of such 15 or 30 days’ notice respectively, if
such sidewalks shall not have been extended, constructed or repaired according
to the provisions of this subchapter by the owner or owners, the Board of
Trustees shall cause such sidewalk to be made, extended, constructed or
repaired at the expense of the owner or owners of such lot, lots or lands, and
the same shall be charged and be a charge and a lien upon said lot, lots or
lands in front of which said walk or walks are made to be collected as provided
by law.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a sidewalk has been so constructed, extended or
repaired by the town, the Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, assess the
cost of such extension, construction or repair of such sidewalks to the lot,
lots or lands abutting thereon.
      (2)   After such assessment has been made by the Board of Trustees, the
Town Clerk and Recorder of said town shall give the owner or owners of such
lot, lots or land ten days’ written notice of the same which notice shall be
served personally upon such owner or owners by the Police Chief if such owner
can be found within the town and shall also be furnished in a newspaper
published in the town and which said notice shall contain the cost of
improvement and the description of the lot, lots or lands upon which the cost
of such improvements are so measured and a date at which a regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees will be held and request the owner of said
lot, lots or lands to appear before the Board of Trustees at such time for the
purpose of making such objections as he, she or it may have to the justness and
correctness of the amount assessed.
      (3)   If the owner or owners cannot be found within the town, such notice
shall be further served upon him, her or it by sending a copy of such notice by
registered letter addressed to his, her or its last known address.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25 CONDITION.
   All sidewalk shall be kept in good repair by the abutting property owners
and if through the failure, neglect or refusal of any such property owner or
owners to keep the sidewalk in front of his or her premises or property in good
repair and any person or persons shall be injured and the town incur any
liability therefor, it shall have a right to recover from such property owner
the amount of any judgement and costs as it may be required to pay for such
failure or negligence.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to §§
152.01 through
152.07.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
stated or adopted in §§
152.01 through
152.07.
      (2)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision stated or
adopted in §§
152.01 through
152.07 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300.
   (C)   If the charges shall not be paid by the owner or owners within 30 days
after such time of hearing provided for in §
152.24, then the Town Clerk and Recorder shall certify the amount of said
charges and assessment with 10% of the amount as penalty thereon to the
Assessor or County Treasurer or other officer of the county then having charge
and custody of the county tax list to be placed upon the tax list for the
current year and to be collected as other taxes are collected provided by law.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-25-1912; Ord. 1987-4, passed 7-15-1987; Ord. 2019-1, passed
2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adopted
   
153.02   Amendments
   
153.03   Copies
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 ADOPTED.
   The zoning ordinance of the town, as promulgated by the Town Planning
Commission in cooperation with the San Luis Valley Council of Governments is
hereby adopted and enacted by reference. The purpose of the zoning ordinance is
to codify the zoning ordinance of the town to have the same force and effect as
if set forth herein in every particular. The subject matter of the zoning
ordinance includes comprehensive provisions and standards regulating and
restricting the height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied; the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces; the density of population; and the location and
use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence and other
purposes.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 10-10-1978) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The zoning ordinance of the town is hereby adopted by reference without
amendment.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 10-10-1978)
§ 153.03 COPIES.
   At least three copies of the zoning ordinance of the town, all certified to
be true copies, have been and are now on file in the office of the Town Clerk,
and may be inspected by any interested person between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. The zoning ordinance
as finally adopted shall be available for sale to the public through the office
of the Town Clerk at a moderate price.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 10-10-1978)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   The owner or owners of any building or buildings or premises or parts
thereof where anything in violation of this chapter exists or is placed or
maintained, and any architect, builder or contractor who assists in the
commission of any such violation; and all persons or corporations who violate
or maintain any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or who fails
to comply therewith or with any requirements thereof or who build in violation
of any statement of plans submitted and approved thereunder shall, for each and
every violation or noncompliance be guilty of a violation of this chapter, and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $300.
Every person violating or contributing in any way to the violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each
day during which such violation continues and may be punished therefor as
herein provided.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 10-10-1978; Ord. 2019-1, passed 2-12-2019)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Colorado Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO COLORADO REVISED STATUTES
O.S. Code Section Code Section
O.S. Code Section              Code Section
9-1.5-101 et seq.              152.03
13-10-113                      10.99
18-18-20(5)                    133.05
Title 22, Article 33           133.05
Title 24, Article 4            113.07,
                               152.07
Title 24, Article 10, Part 1   54.08
25-1.5-106                     112.04
Title 29, Article 1, Part 1    54.08
Title 29, Article 1, Part 6    54.08
Title 29, Article 2            37.20,
                               37.27
29-2-109                       37.23
Title 30, Article 15, Part 4   52.01
Title 31, Article 12, Part I   151.01
Title 31, Article 12, Part 4   92.15
Title 31, Article 16, Part 1   52.01,
                               70.01
Title 31, Article 16, Part 2   52.01,
                               70.01
Title 31, Article 23, Part 1   33.02,
                               33.04
Title 31, Article 23, Part 2   33.06
31-23-301(5)(a)(I)             151.02
Title 31, Article 35, Part 4   54.06,
                               54.08
31-35-402(1)(f) et seq.        50.01
31-35-617                      50.02,
                               51.061
31-35-701                      51.062
Title 37, Article 45.1, Part 1 54.01
37-45.1-104(2)                 54.05
Title 39, Article 21           37.27
                               37.20,
                               37.23,
Title 39, Article 26           37.24,
                               37.26,
                               37.27
39-26-102                      37.21
39-26-104                      37.23
39-26-114(11)                  37.24
39-26-707                      37.24
39-26-709                      37.24
39-26-715                      37.24
39-26-724                      37.24
Title 42                       70.99,
                               Ch. 73, Sch. I
42-1-102(58)                   53.01
42-4-111                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
Title 44, Article 3 et seq.    115.01
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        4-29-1902   10.49
5        5-7-1902    32.02
11       8-26-1902   10.49
13       4-7-1903    92.02,
                     92.99
                     114.01,
15       12-21-1909  114.02,
                     114.99
                     152.20—
20       6-25-1912   152.25,
                     152.99
25       11-14-1916  114.01
47       4-8-1930    Ch. 73, Sch. I
55       9-10-1935   Ch. 73, Sch. II
56       5-23-1939   150.60—
                     150.68
60       7-1-1941    92.01,
                     92.99
63       8-19-1947   114.02
106      5-4-1954    31.01—
                     31.05
107      9-7-1954    90.11,
                     90.12
112      5-8-1956    30.01
                     36.01—
118      6-10-1958   36.09,
                     36.99
126      - -1965     Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1975-3   8-12-1975   33.01—
                     33.06
                     92.15—
1975-5   8-12-1975   92.17,
                     92.99
                     37.01,
1976-1A  12-29-1976  37.04,
                     37.07,
                     37.08
                     37.01—
1976-4   12-29-1976  37.08,
                     37.99
1977-1   10-4-1977   31.07
                     153.01—
1978-3   10-10-1978  153.03,
                     153.99
                     151.01,
1979-1   1-9-1979    151.03—
                     151.05
1982-1   3-10-1982   34.01,
                     34.02
1982-2   11-10-1982  Ch. 73, Sch. I, Ch. 73, Sch. III, Ch. 73, Sch. IV, Ch. 74,
                     Sch. II
1984-1   8- -1984    151.03
                     110.01—
1986-1   1-8-1986    110.17,
                     110.99
                     111.01—
1986-2   1-8-1986    111.20,
                     111.99
                     113.01—
1987-3   7-15-1987   113.08,
                     113.99
                     152.01—
1987-4   7-15-1987   152.07,
                     152.99
1989-1   3-9-1989    50.01,
                     50.02
                     130.01,
                     130.99,
                     131.01,
                     131.02,
                     132.01—
1990-2   7-26-1990   132.07,
                     133.01—
                     133.07,
                     134.01—
                     134.03,
                     135.01,
                     135.02
1992-1   3-12-1992   34.01,
                     34.02
1993-2   12-9-1993   54.01—
                     54.09
                     35.01,
1994-1   5-12-1994   35.02,
                     35.99
                     92.30—
1997-1   12-11-1997  92.35,
                     92.99
                     72.01—
1998-1   7-9-1998    72.05,
                     72.99
2000-1   2-10-2000   151.02
                     37.20,
                     37.21,
2000-4   11-9-2000   37.23—
                     37.28,
                     37.40—
                     37.43
                     37.20,
                     37.21,
2000-5   11-9-2000   37.23—
                     37.28,
                     37.40—
                     37.43
                     53.01,
2002-1   7-22-2002   53.02,
                     53.99
2003-1   3-13-2003   134.04,
                     134.99
                     53.01,
2003-2   6-12-2003   53.02,
                     53.99
2004-1   2-12-2004   34.15,
                     34.16
                     71.01—
2004-2   7-8-2004    71.05,
                     71.99
2004-3   9-9-2004    37.55—
                     37.57
2004-5   10-13-2004  53.01
2004-6   12-9-2004   71.05
                     51.001,
                     51.015—
                     51.035,
2006-2   8-24-2006   51.050—
                     51.064,
                     51.075—
                     51.078,
                     51.999
                     136.01,
2007-1   8-9-2007    136.02,
                     136.99
                     112.02—
2011-1   1-13-2011   112.06,
                     112.99
2013-2   5-9-2013    51.050
                     112.01,
2013-3   9-12-2013   112.02,
                     112.99
2013-5   11-12-2013  31.06
2014-3   4-10-2014   151.02
                     90.01—
2014-7   11-13-2014  90.10,
                     90.99
2016-1   7-14-2016   52.01—
                     52.04
2017-2   6-8-2017    51.015
2018-1   10-11-2018  133.05
                     36.99,
                     51.999,
                     52.02,
                     70.99,
                     72.99,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     90.99,
2019-1   2-12-2019   92.99,
                     110.99,
                     111.99,
                     112.99,
                     113.99,
                     130.99,
                     134.99,
                     152.99,
                     153.99
                     116.01—
2020-1   1-9-2020    116.10,
                     116.99
2020-2   9-10-2020   133.03
2020-3   10-8-2020   10.99
2021-1   1-14-2021   Adopting Ordinance
2021-2   11-18-2021  110.05
2021-3   3-17-2021   38.01—
                     38.07
2021-4   3-17-2021   33.15—
                     33.20
                     70.01—
2022-2   11-10-2022  70.03,
                     70.99
                     150.01—
                     150.52,
2023-1   5-11-2023   150.70—
                     150.72,
                     150.99
2023-2   6-8-2023    91.00—
                     91.03
                    
 
